Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - TDS Telecom Madison, WI ? Python Web Developer with 7 + years overall experience in Information Technology  ? Strong background in Development, Design, and Roll-out.  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object - oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  ? Experienced in working on Devops/Agile operations process and tools area (Code review, unit test automation, Build & Release automation, Service, Incident and Change Management)  ? Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans,design documents, quality analysis and audits.  ? Proficient in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Java.  ? Proficient in Unix bash scripting.  ? Strong skill in writing optimised algorithmic logic.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Django,Spring,Hibernate, XML, CSS,HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Proficient in writing large and complex optimised SQL queries  ? Good Exposure in maintaining various version controls.  ? Prepared best practice documents for external customers and worked closely with third party vendors.  ? Ability to work independently, and with minimum supervision.  ? Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer TDS Telecom - Madison, WI July 2016 to Present Project Description: Python Developer TDS Telecom - Madison, WI July 2016 to Present BendBss Conversion is a project intended to convert BendBroadband customers to TDS customers. As part of the project, several applications like IAM, MAFCO, CST, EEPS Core, ACMS, EEPS Query etc had to be modified to accommodate Bend customers into TDS system.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in design reviews and provide input to the design recommendation and provide input to information/data flow, and understand and comply with Project Life Cycle Methodology.  ? Participated in all aspects of the development process, including the design of database schema, implementation of web services and business logic, and development of management tools.  ? Developed broker REST web services with complex graph traversal scenarios.  ? Extensively wrote back end application using Django, Spyne.  ? Enhance and modify Django applications like CST, MAFCO, EEPS Query and ACMS.  ? Enhance IAM, a Java REST web service application that runs on JBoss server  ? Rewrote existing Python/Django modules as part of refactoring or logic change.  ? Integration of user-facing elements developed by front-end developers with server side logic.  ? Performance analysis using ELK instance  ? Developed Python scripts for data analysis large data sets to extract trend and performance insights. Also , to ensure the correctness of the data after system  ? conversion.  ? Extensively wrote web service clients to interact with several third party web service  ? and consumed intercompany SOAP/REST web services.  ? Ported the existing web interface from java to Python.  ? Worked extensively creating Stored Procedures to encapsulate business logic in the database and improve performance.  ? Experienced with Python Multithreaded programming to develop multithreaded modules  ? and applications for parallel processing.  ? Also used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web  ? application.  ? Utilize programming methodologies and languages and adhere to coding standards,  ? procedures and techniques while contributing to the technical code documentation.  ? Responsible for performance analysis, unit testing, execution of function test plan,  ? validation of test results and documentation.    Environment: Python, Django, Spyne, Flask, Java, Spring, HIbernate, Jenkins, MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Jira, Linux, Git, Pycharm , ELK stack Python Developer Exilant Technologies - Cupertino, CA February 2013 to March 2015 Project Description  MetaData Management(MDM) is the critical internal application of Apple .It is the user interface to the Enterprise Application Integration which forms a middleware to enable integration of systems and applications across the enterprise.In Apple's data center, MDM manages movement/ transfer of data between two or more applications like Espresso, Radar etc. Data is transferred between two entities using BUS and data format varies from text to file    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Coded back end application logic with Python, Django.  ? Strong experience of developing data models with Django ORM.  ? Used Django/Spyne framework for application development.  ? Extensively wrote and optimised large SQL queries.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Extensively wrote test cases for fully code coverage.  ? Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process.  ? Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  ? Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  ? Wrote Python modules to extract/load data from the MySQL source database.  ? Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  ? Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python, Django, Spyne, Jenkins, Mysql, Oracle, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Jira, Linux, SVN. DevOps Engineer Exilant Technologies - Cupertino, CA April 2012 to February 2013 Project Description:  Apple was building an application tracking system for their recruitment process .As an Apple contractor, I contributed to application tracking system infrastructure setup and maintenance of Apple throughout the full lifecycle, including deploying and maintaining test and production environments.    Responsibilities:  ? Facilitated build and deployment automation by authoring and implementing scripts.  ? Addressed and resolved infrastructure issues on a daily basis, using root cause analysis to identify the source  ? Extensively wrote bash scripts for server maintenance  ? Created automated scripts to streamline and simplify standalone server setups.  ? Supported team collaboration by handling knowledge transfer for the APS team on build and application setup.  ? Worked with clients to understand and implement configuration and infrastructure changes.  ? Implemented Apache web servers and Daxtra server.  ? Handled Jboss 5.x and Jboss 7 application server configuration and maintenance.    Environment: Unix Shell Scripting, Core Java, Jboss, XML, Oracle , Jenkins, Rundeck, X-Provision, Ant, Maven, SVN, Mac OS. Python Developer Smarika Meditech - Kathmandu, NP February 2011 to April 2012 Project Description:  I was part of this medical start-up team to build medical inventory management system.The system is designed to handle medical supplies procurement and record keeping for multi-physician practices.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked with the design team for project structure.  ? Implemented the presentation layer with HTML,, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed the backend modules using Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Performed code reviews.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined Function.  ? Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  ? Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.    Environment: Python 2.6, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, JQuery, Apache web server. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA July 2015 to August 2017 Skills PYTHON (5 years), APACHE (5 years), CSS (4 years), DJANGO (4 years), HTML (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python ,Java, SQL , Bash Script  Framework Django, Flask ,Spyne,Spring,Hibernate,Jquery ,Hadoop ,ELK stack  Databases MySQL,Oracle ,MongoDB  WebTechnologies JSP,Servlet,HTML,CSS,JavaScript,AJAX  Tools Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Rundeck, X-Provision, Eclipse, Git, SVN  Web servers Apache, JBOSS    Operating Systems Linux/Unix,Windows