Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Bank of America (NY) Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Bank of America (NY) January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed views and templates with Python Django's view controller and templating language to create a web interface.  • Designed presentation part in JSP (Dynamic content) and HTML (for static pages).  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Design and develop ETL APIs which will automate the data mining in different database sources.  • Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using amazon elastic bean stalk.  • Used TCP/IP protocol to connect with server which has database available to connect for the ETL tool.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure, Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Used on Django's API's to access database objects Used Awaits and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  • Prepared test data files using Linux Shell scripts, Perl script as per the business requirements.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Responsible for design of the backend request processing system and interface between CPO and Perl scripts from scratch.  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which includes web servers, ELB, Cloud Front distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration.  • Started developing with Django and currently developing with Django 1.0.  • Created entire application using Python, Perl, PostgreSQL and Linux.  • Used Wire shark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Designed and developed the user interface of the project with HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Entire Front end and back end modules of the project are developed using Python with Django Framework.  • Designed and developed the data management systems using MySQL databases.  • Written Python Scripts to parse the XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized the existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in required formats.  • Client-side validations and manipulations are done using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  • Responsible for Debugging and troubleshooting the application. Utilized Subversion control tool to coordinate team work. Used Selenium Libraries to write fully functioning test automation process.  • Build high-performance streaming REST server in Flask. Developed user interface using HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript. Worked on API's deploying queries, status codes, requests to retrieve data in json format  • Worked on data exchange from website using xml, java and web services. Worked on python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database  • Coordinated with team members to improve quality assurance and mitigate risks. Wrote stored procedures in MySQL  • Created a portable fully automated test tool, allowing 24/7 integration support for two development sites around the world and decreasing code turnaround time from 4 hours to 1 hour.  • Automated the daily and weekly build process to allow us to build daily builds twice a day for faster turnaround time for submitted code changes.  • Automated the code release process, bring the total time for code releases from 8 hours to 1 hour.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and ReactJS. Implemented a review process in integration automation using Review Board and Gerrit that eliminated the need for a 5 hour per week daily approval meeting.  • Resolved QA bugs for front end and back end.  • Played a key role in a department wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Developed a mail script that extracts code defects data per component for a daily report to drive reducing defects in the codebase.  • Created modern, REST APIs from existing information assets.  • Designed the UI using HTML5, Angular JS, J-Query and CSS.  • Manage a technician that oversees automation and carries out daily tasks.  • Deploying, managing, and operating scale, highly available, and fault tolerant systems to AWS.  • Development of modules using Angular JS and HTML.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL. Python Developer Google - Mountain View, CA December 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Instigated user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Utilized Python libraries NumPy and matplotlib.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design database.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Hardware installation of patch panels and fiber optic connectivity, hubs, cabling of cat5 and RJ45 connectors.  • Setup and configured DHCP on Windows 2003 for external wireless clients and mobile PC kiosks within the hospital.  • Installed and configured Windows XP workstations using standard software configuration and configured TCP/IP and network interface cards.  • Managing internet security and acceleration throughout the network using Microsoft ISA server.  • Written functional test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, XML base services, and MongoDB.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and matplotlib.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used third party jQuery-based plug-ins like Data tables etc. Heavily used JavaScript for Form Submit and other UI elements during development.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Used jQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  • Involved in developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework. Python Developer Dell - Round Rock, TX January 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management  • Developed Python application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting  • Worked on Python Open stack API's. used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  • Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries  sickie-learn and SciPy.  • Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web-based application in OOP concepts.  • Worked on several python packages like Matplotlib, cx_ Freeze, Pillow, NumPy, sockets.  • Worked on ETL Processing which consists of data transformation, data sourcing and also mapping, Conversion and loading.  • Worked on design and development of Unix Shell Scripting as a part of the ETL Process to automate the process of loading.  • Worked on ETL tasks like pulling, pushing data from and too various servers.  • Tested and evaluated results for inclusion into software product.  • Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis using R Studio  • Automating Email Process, Downloading and uploading the files through Perl Scripting.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met  • Used Machine learning techniques like unsupervised Classification, optimization and prediction.  • Worked on Python open stack API's  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like open stack.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  Environment: Python 2.7, .NET, Query, MVW, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX, Windows, and Python libraries. Python Developer Nationwide Insurance Group - Columbus, OH May 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • Worked on Teradata SQL queries, Teradata Indexes, Utilities such as Molad, Trump, Fast load and Fast Export.  • Used Teradata OLAP functions like RANK, ROW_NUMBER, QUALIFY, CSUM and SAMPLE.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using PHP/ Python.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and loaded the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for existing code.  • Created a Test Automation Framework with Selenium for test automation process  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting of web application. Skills PHP, Javascript, Git, HTML 5, jQuery