Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - State of Wisconsin- WI Wisconsin Dells, WI • Over 7 years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery & Angular Js.  • 3+ years of QA experience working in environment with different types of Software Development Life Cycle and Software Testing Methodology.  • Strong experience developing with Python Working knowledge HTML/Javascript/CSS TDD, CI and iterative software development   • Experience with application code and configuration scanning for best practices   • Designing and building XML/SOAP/Restful service applications and clients   • A solid understanding of change management processes and write and present comprehensive technical content / documentation  • Excellent understanding and knowledge of Hadoop Distributed file system data modelling, architecture and design principles and Developed Python Mapper and Reducer scripts and implemented them using Hadoop streaming  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark and Familiar with JSON based REST Web services  • Experienced in understanding Service Virtualization needs/ Requirements & creating VSI's using WSDL, WADL, Recording, Request & Response pairs.  • Expertise in creating Restful API in NodeJS and communicate with Clojure server via protocol and use Backbone to generate template.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB and Knowledgeable with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Strong hands-on on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring  • Experienced in understanding Service Virtualization needs/ Requirements & creating VSI's using WSDL, WADL, Recording, Request & Response pairs.  • Understanding of Linux & Apache Knowledge of TCP/IP, HTTP protocols Excellent problem-solving skills, and an eye for solving performance issues   • Experience with Python web frameworks development (flask, pylons, catalyst, mojolicious). Work Experience Sr. Python Developer State of Wisconsin- WI July 2017 to Present • Involved in assisting QA team in Load and Integration testing of J2EE applications on WebLogic/JBoss Application Servers.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and Worked on MYSQL data lineage process to map source to target DB, table and column mappings using OO Python.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity and Designed, developed and deployed CSV Parsing using the big data approach on AWS EC2  • Used Sqoop to import the data from RDBMS to Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) and later analyzed the imported data using Hadoop Components  • Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching HADOOP Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  • Created complex reports in MicroStrategy Desktop using features like Templates, Transformations, Custom Groups and Consolidations.  • Used Ansible for automating cloud deployment process and Implemented EC2 infrastructure using Ansible, Fabric deployment process.  • Designed & developed scalable Azure APIs using Flask web framework in Python and Integrated with Azure API Management, Logical Apps and other Azure services.  • Worked in the Azure Cloud for integration processes.  • Used ReactJS, worked on applications for Bash terminal component to add Extensible commands and autocomplete in content writing.  • Created MySQL queue using AWS SNS, SQS, and Golang (Go), to concurrently process SQL queries in the background  • Built a Golang web server to host multiple tools so another has http access to them.  • Created Virtual Machine cluster and load balance for VM's using PowerShell.  • Set up cluster environment for load balancing and high availability of Windows Servers. Python Developer The Walt Disney Company - Orlando, FL May 2015 to June 2017 Developed web applications and implemented Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Migrated platform from physical server to virtual environment (took it from development into production by wiring up an Nginx stack).  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Angular.Js  • Developed Python Script for moving files from dropbox to Amazon server.  • Build the pipelines, ran the tests in Jenkins and deployed the application in AWS  • Created API Keys and Usage plans in AWS API Gateways and used the keys across the regions for using the API Gateway  • Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  • Created AWS Secrets Manager to store the properties across the regions, retrieve the secrets and wrote a shell script to automate the process  • Created AWS kinesis Firehouse and attached it to S3 bucket for having the log information and store that as Event data in the S3 storage bucket  • Wrote Python Scripts for loading data from CSV files into the database tables.  • Documented tasks in Confluence and related them to the JIRA tickets.  • Used Python /Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline  • Used with version control systems such as Git and Apache SVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  • Worked on designing and maintaining complex SQL queries and developing PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Followed the best practice of Python such as PEP-8.  • Developed Python scripts to execute Stored Procedures and load data from various forms of csv files into staging tables in SQL Server database.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask  Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Administered Microsoft Active Directory environment and maintained user account in Active Directory by adding/deleting users, correcting user access problems, and assigning appropriate rights and privileges.  • Developed Organizational Units in Active Directory and managed user security with group policies. Python Developer Western Reserve Group - Wooster, OH November 2013 to April 2015 • Developed a fully automated Continuous Integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  • Wrote Cloud formation templates and deployed AWS resourcing.  • Built application and database servers using AWS EC2 and create AMIs also using RDS for Oracle DB.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib 2 for web crawling.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Mainly used Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network.  • Used various version control systems like Git, CVS, GitHub, Heroku and Amazon EC2.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub  • Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQLAlchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Developed programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python, Java, Bash script and Windows command line, AutoIT, AutoHotKey and Java Script  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Involved in Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, and SQLAlchemy).  • Utilized PyUnit the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Built Continuous Integration environment (Jenkins, Nexus) and Continuous delivery environment (puppet).  • Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure  • Working closely with Web Administrators to understand, participate, and experience the technical architect for web sites such as Apache, Web Sphere; and deploying J2EE Applications to these environments.  • Recommended build management, defect management development process flow. Administrator of SVN.  • Involved in editing the existing ANT/MAVEN files in case of errors or changes in the project requirements. Python Developer XPO Logistics - Philadelphia, PA September 2012 to October 2013 • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Skilled experience in installing, configuring and using Apache Hadoop ecosystems such as Pig and Spark.  • Extracted the needed data from the server into HDFS and Bulk Loaded the cleaned data into HBase using MapReduce  • Created an e-mail notification service upon completion of job for the particular team which requested for the data.  • Defined job work flows as per their dependencies in Oozie.  • Closely observed building the Reporting Application, which uses the Spark SQL to fetch and generate reports on table data  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects/POJO to hold values between java classes and database fields.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Technical competencies:  Programming Languages: Python, Java  Web services: SOAP, RESTful  Data bases: Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, NoSQL, SQL Server, SSIS  IDE's and tools: Eclipse, Pycharm, NetBeans  Python Frameworks: Django  OS &Environment: XP, windows, Linux, UNIX, Ubuntu  UNIX Shell Scripting: UNIX Shell Scripting  Version control: GitHub, SVN  Development Methodologies: Agile, Scrum