Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - T-Mobile, TX • Around 8+ years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design operated Python 2.7/ Python 3.4, Java/J2EE, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular Js.  • Experience with Django, Flask and Pyramid a high-level Python Web framework.  • Software development experience in Python using libraries numpy, scipy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, network, MySQL dB for database connectivity.  • Experience using data analysis tools to visualize the data and understand experiment data. Experience in using ETL tool and Reporting tools  • Good experience in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial transactions and devised associated components in Linux, UNIX, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT), Perl, Python scripting.  • Designed a Python/Django based web application operating Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of served pages.  • Understanding of cloud-based deployments into Amazon EC2 with Chef and setup and Configuration of Chef Configuration Management and subversion administration for taking the builds using Chef Management.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  • Worked on Docker container to create Docker images for different environments.  • Created automation for many AWS specific tasks such as parsing a CSV for automated read/writes into DynamoDB so that changes are source controlled and automated via Jenkins.  • Using Chef and AWS allowed me to reduce costs for the department and eliminate unwarranted resources. Automated provisioning of cloud infrastructure with Chef.  • Automated the cloud deployments using chef, python.  • Used Angular 4 for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating with Restful services.  • Implemented data-binding and MVC using Angular for front-end development of a current web application.  • Developed applications using Angular single page applications SPAs to improve page performance.  • Build back-end application with Python / Django, Worked on Dockers, RabbitMQ, Celery, and Jenkins.  • Good Knowledge on Various parametrized reports, cascading reports using report builder and report developer in SSRS.  • Leveraged Python, Perl, CGI, jQuery, JavaScript and JSON at front end.  • Aware of SDLC, Waterfall, Test-driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum Methodology.  • RIA applications using Flex, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, Dojo and Node JS.  • Worked on Proof of Concept for developing application using Node Js and Mongo DB.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications leveraging technologies like HTML, CSS, Web Sockets and JavaScript.  • Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon Cloud Front).  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services. Sound knowledge on Selenium Test Framework to automate the Web applications testing process.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modelling Language (UML).  • Experience in providing production support to various ETL jobs and developing various UNIX shell scripts to run ETL and Data base jobs.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi-threading functionality. Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using Cherry Py & bottle Py framework.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Work Experience Python Developer T-Mobile, TX July 2017 to Present Job Description: - T-Mobile is Telecom industry. The best care in wireless just got better. Working for T-Mobile is like working with a big, crazy, innovative family. We are looking for driven, passionate team members who want to have fun and grow within our organization. Our responsibility extends beyond the boardroom. Though community projects, disaster relief efforts, and green initiatives, the planet and our fellow human beings are always top of mind.    Responsibilities:  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Helped with the migration from the old server to MySQL database (Matching Fields) with Python scripts for transferring and verifying the information.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Developed the tools using Python, Flask and used MongoDB for databases. Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  • Analyzing the source data coming from different sources (SQL Server, Oracle, Sales force and also from flat files like Access and Excel) and working with business users and developers to develop the Model.  • Worked on Design and development of Restful APIs using Flask and JSON.  • Working in MySQL, RDS database with Flask framework to develop APIs.  • Developed reusable, testable and efficient code for automation of MySQL script execution.  • Experienced the usage of Celery and RabbitMQ for message queuing and distributed task queuing.  • Performed database operations and queries using MYSQL, Optimized the database query to improve performance.  • Experience with Front-end JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Node JS.  • Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing JQuery, Node Js.  • Responsible for testing, debugging, bug fixing and documentation of the system.  • Used Git for version control and used Agile methodology.  • Developed complete documentation.  • Used Git to resolve and coding work on python and portlet.  • Responsible for migration of system from Talend data processing to python.  • Deployed Application using AWS EC2 Standard Deployment Techniques.  • Responsible for Amazon web services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tool such as chef.  • Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  • Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python.  • Wrote scripts to handle any input data source and upload into database.  • Launching Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Images (Linux/Ubuntu) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Developed tools using python and automating tasks using Run Deck scheduling software. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production environment had no issues.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Maintained and Administered GIT Source Code Tool.  • Handling different file formats such as csv, xls, Json, and any separated files, upload them into database.  • Wrote service to store and retrieve data from Mongo DB for the application on devices.  • Worked on creating documents in Mongo database.  • Worked on creating various types of indexes on different collections to get good performance in Mongo database.  • Build SQL, NOSQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Developed script to copy data between two different databases and multiple databases as source.  • Used Angular 4.0 as the development framework to build a single-page application and done CRUD operations with http service.  • Created tabbed interface for the Build Job Orders application using Angular 4.0, HTML and Typescript.  • Data transformation using ETL packages from python library (pyETL, petl, pygrametl).  • Data validation and integrating with notifications (status).  • Splitting and merging of data, column reordering and default values handled by using python scripts.  • Experience with working on Linux server and Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  • Worked with millions of database records daily, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing it. Maintain Unix/Linux/AIX operating systems and purchased systems software packages, determine and resolve problems occurring in systems software or hardware and act as a technical liaison to computer manufacturers.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Worked with Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database  • Ensured that firewall and security policies optimized to enable business agility while meeting the most stringent security and compliance requirements.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of two main applications were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Generating Log files for all the tasks with specific requirements and format.    Environment:  Python2.7.5, Python 3.6.3, SQL server, MySQL server, Linux, GitHub, AWS S3. Python Developer Amdocs - El Dorado Hills, CA May 2015 to June 2017 Job Description: Amdocs is a leading software & services provider to the world's most successful communications and media companies. As our customers reinvent themselves, we enable their digital and network transformation through innovative solutions, delivery expertise and intelligent operations.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing web-based application using Python, Django, jquery, and HTML.  • Leveraged Django framework for application development.  • Developed scripts using Python scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks and used Github repository to run the Jenkins job for Continues Integration.  • Built complete Configuration Management for the Microservices using kubernetes, Docker and Ansible.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base. Used Parsekit (Enigma.io) framework for writing Parsers for ETL extraction.  • Worked extensively on Spark Streaming, Spark SQL, PySpark and Hadoop/HDFS API doing MapReduce.  • Developed Pyspark code to read data from Hive, group the fields and generate XML files.  • Implemented Spark using Pyspark and SparkSQL for faster testing and processing of data.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using pyCharm and Sublime Text.  • Used OOP to develop network communications between departments within the building and develop online applications using Object-Oriented Programming as well as Python programming.  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant using AngularJS, ReactJS.  • Used React.js for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components  • Involved in building stable reusable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Involved in implementation of MVC pattern using Angular 4.0/2.0, Kendo UI and Spring Controller.  • Successfully migrated an application developed in Angular 2.0 to Angular 4.0.  • Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installed and configured Kubernetes.  • Built complete Configuration Management for the Microservices using Kubernetes, Docker and Ansible.  • Created and updated Reverse DNS zone files to include PTR records.  • Involved in writing test automation for network manageability features.  • Maintenance of DNS records.  • Used Ansible to document application dependencies into version control.  • Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy there code using GitHub  • Jenkins and Ansible.  • Maintain and track inventory using Jenkins and set alerts when the servers are full and need attention.  • This project applied OpenCV library to capture certain object and feedback corresponding event.  • Voted the most efficient tutorial for using OpenCV with C++ and Python.  • Differentiated various mountain rescue signs using OpenCV and its interpolation methods  • Build back-end application with Python / Django, Worked on Dockers, RabbitMQ, Celery, and Jenkins.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Behavior Driven Development (BDD).  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  • Worked on Docker container to create Docker images for different environments.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  • Strong experience with VoIP protocols such as H.323 / SIP.  • Excellent working knowledge of deployment and management of IT services such as DNS.  • Worked on Infoblox to update the DNS host.  • Have good understanding of VoIP session setup and teardown using SIP.  • Strong understanding of VoIP.  • Automation Script Infrastructure building- Currently engaged in writing automation infrastructure and automation scripts for various network events  • Extensively used existing macros and developed SAS Programs for Data Cleaning, Validation, Analysis and Report generation. Tested and debugged existing macros.  • Backup Administration including Veritas NetBackup, EMC Networker, EMC Avamar and Simpana CommVault.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Performed data modelling and data manipulation using SQL on Oracle and MySQL.  • Involved in migrating the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Involved in environment, code installation as well as SVN implementation.  • Generated an API Reference guide to help application developers for creating software applications to store data operating DDN S3 (compatible with Amazon S3 API).  • Used SOAP and RESTful API for information extraction. Utilized Pandas API to put data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Executed Spark Jobs in Spark-Core as Rdd's and Spark-SQL as Data Frames using Scala programming and performed live sentimental analysis including Kafka and Spark Streaming in the use case.  • Creating Autosys Calendars and migrating those calendars from one environment to another environment.  • Installed modcluster on Apache HTTP Server.  • Experience with Apache Tomcat, Oracle Weblogic administration, HTTP Webservers.  • Involved in configuration and administration of DNS Server. Security layers like SSL, HTTPS.  • Involved in configured servers to provide networking services, including HTTP/HTTPS, File Transfer Protocol (FTP).  • Developed Use cases in demonstrating the current Big Data Eco Systems and inter connected them on their functionalities.  • Improved algorithm designs and increased efficiency of clinical data simulator using efficient data structures.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Deployed and scheduled Reports with SSRS to generate all daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly Reports including status.  Environment:  Python 2.7, Django 1.7, Rabbit MQ, Soap UI, RESTAPI, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, Agile. Python Developer Rockwell Automation, May Field Heights, Ohio March 2013 to April 2015 Job Description: Our mission is to improve the quality of life by making the world more productive and sustainable. We are committed to enabling the next generation of smart manufacturing. With the right strategy, talented people, and our substantial financial strength, we are dedicated to deliver value to our customers.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout development and maintenance of website.  • Involved in preparation of Functional Design documents and development tasks for ETL.  • Translating business rules and functional requirements into ETL procedures  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules with Python on Django Web Framework.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making with Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword with python-twitter library.  • Devised Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track events and perform analysis using Django.  • Interacted with Business Analysts and Users in requirement gathering, built complex queries using SQL and wrote stored procedures using PL/SQL.  • Designed and developed Oracle PL/SQL Procedures, Functions, and Database Triggers and involved in creating and updating Packages to meet business requirements.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Built a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of served pages.  • Developed UDF's with python and implemented graphs utilizing python with big data analytics. Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Expertise in troubleshooting backup failures due to network, hardware, and vendor software.  • Technical Director and SME (subject matter expert) for Administrators in a Global Backup environment on multiple platforms.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain website and leveraged Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Review and disposition of Destructive Physical Analysis (DPA) reports and Failure Analyses reports.  • Generated Tables, Graphs and Listings for inclusion in Clinical study reports and regulatory submission and participated in preparing study results as well as ISS and ISE for FDA submissions using SAS.  • Prepared pig scripts and Spark SQL/Spark streaming to handle all the transformations specified in the S2TM's and to handle SCD2 and SCD1 scenarios  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Implement Async Task Queueing (Celery) to improve CMS UX  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Executed various MYSQL database queries from python operating Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design and used Git to resolve and coding work on python and portlet.  • Perform penetration testing such as Cross-site scripting, SQL Injection and exploitation to protect our web applications.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Implemented and generated department metrics of client requests in form of weekly, monthly, and annual status updates and top security issues.  • Implemented business metrics to measure progress on compliance information collection.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Created & implemented Selenium Automation Hybrid Framework.  • Assisted clients in preparation of Desktop and Postscript files.  • Debug and troubleshoot complex automation framework issues and work closely with the Engineering team on the failures and verify proposed patches.  • • Involved in writing test automation for network manageability features.  • Collaborated with IT leaders and delivery managers in defining current state architecture to bolster future projects aimed at supporting architecture development.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically with Python and created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for the Automation of the deployment of the Conductor application on AWS using high-end AWS architectural components.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications leveraging technologies like HTML, CSS, Web Sockets and JavaScript.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked on various environment Python, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, git, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm and Sublime Text.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira. Python Developer Nielsen - Tampa, FL September 2011 to February 2013 Job Description: Nielsen is a global measurement and data analytics company that provides the most complete and trusted view available of consumers and markets worldwide.  Responsibilities:    • Designed and developed components using Python. Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulated data.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL and creating efficient system.  • Designed and Developed UI using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, Java Script and jQuery.  • Used Java Script libraries like jQuery UI, DataGrid, jscolor, high charts.  • Developed the presentation layer HTML, JSP, CSS and DHTML.  • Developed widgets for GUI using PyGtk modules of python.  • Used Django to develop web-based application and deploy it using Jenkins.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Mobile app UI design experience. Used ANGULAR JS and consumed Restful Web Services and which are created out of Node API. Good understanding in implementing web application using Angular JS framework.  • Replaced existed Angular JS code with Angular JS2 code, which decreased number of lines of code for a web application.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Using Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Used Python and Django for creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Used python Data structures like sqlite3, dictionaries, and tuples.  • Used several Python libraries like NumPy, Pandas and Matplotlib.  • Helped with the migration from the old server to Jira database with Python scripts for transferring and verifying the information  • Supported Apache Tomcat Web server on Linux Platform.  • Used RAD 7.0 for implementing Static and Dynamic web services for consuming and providing services related to the business.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Serving using AJAX, JSON, and XML.  Environment: Python, RAD 7.0, C++, Ajax, HTML Restful API, MySQL, Django, JSON, Panda, Java, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, SVN, Jenkins, Jira, UNIX, Linux, Software Engineer Systel, India - IN June 2010 to July 2011 Project Description: Systel, Inc. is a U.S.-based Award Winning multinational provider of integrated technology and business services. Headquartered in Alpharetta, Systel services its clients through global development centers in India and the United States and is a certified Minority business enterprise (MBE)  Responsibilities:  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using MySQL & PostgreSQL.  • Participated in re-design and development of back-end MySQL & PostgreSQL Server database, wrote queries, triggers and stored procedure.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Modeled the structure for Multi-tiered applications orchestrate the processes to Deploy each tier.  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using MySQL DB, PostgreSQL.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP Web servers in UNIX.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  Environment: HTML5/CSS, HTTP, PostgreSQL, My SQL, MS SQL Server, MySQL, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University 2006 to 2010 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL:  Primary Languages: Python 2.7, Core Java, PHP, C#, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL  Python Libraries: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, Shell urllib2, SciPy.  Frameworks: Bootstrap, Django, Flask, Pajama's, Pyramid, Node.js.  Database: Sqlite3, MSSQL, MySQL, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g  IDE's: Selenium, PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio, PyDev, RIDE  Deployment tools: MS Azure, Heroku, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  Web Technologies: HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, jQuery UI, Ajax  Operating systems: Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux  Linux Versions: Hypervisors: Ubuntu, Red Hat, VM Ware, KVM, Hype-V, Centos  Testing Frameworks: Unit test, Integration tests, Pytest, JXL, JTest  Version Control: VSS, SVN, GitHub, Git, Bitbucket