Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - CVS Health Phoenix, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer CVS Health - Phoenix, AZ October 2016 to Present Worked on "Exports Services", a platform comprised of over 30 products that range from UI, Web Services, Windows Services, and Database Systems. The day to day maintenance for these platforms entrails building new database scripts, creating new web services, implementing new customers onto the platform, and enhancing existing products.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Designing, developing and managing REST APIs utilizing Django's Rest framework and overlooking the API system.  • Responsible for developing an automated system to identify redundant server instances with the same session IDs and mark them for deletion, thereby freeing the memory by a significant amount at times.  • Development of web applications using Python frameworks as Django.  • Successful migration of the default Django's database (SQLite) to PostgreSQL to improve efficiency, integrity and security of data.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  • Worked on PostgreSQL development (tables, views, joins) and migrations from SQLite databases preserving the integrity.  • Experience working with complex datasets including Python's native lists, dictionaries and tuples.  • Designed and developed templates using Django's template library and utilized them using Django's forms library.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python and was responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Worked on version control systems such as Git and Apache SVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  • Followed Scrum along with Test-Driven Development to develop applications, services and software solutions.  • Responsible for constantly communicating the progress and issues to the higher management and making necessary changes to the application based on flexibility, scalability and security issues.  Environment: Django 1.10, JSON, Mango DB, RISK management, SOAP, REST, GitHub Python Developer Symantec - Herndon, VA April 2015 to August 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developed Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Worked on different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Used Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, and Implementation of the application.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, Script, C++, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Script, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting Python Developer Intuit - San Diego, CA February 2013 to February 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Responsible for Creating Python API's  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Designed and managed API system deployment.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  Environment: Python, Django, PHP, C++, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, API, AJAX, XHTML, Bootstrap, AWS, JavaScript, XML, GitHub, Flash, SQLite, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows Python developer Innovative Technologies - IN June 2009 to December 2012 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Responsible for using the best technologies to add features to the existing system and services.  • Involved in all aspects of the development process from product inception to scaling in production.  • Responsible for driving software development best practices for the team and also, mentoring and developing junior engineers.  • Working in collaboration with project managers and higher management in cross-functional teams within Sales and Account Management, to understand business requirements and develop efficient, elegant approaches to their implementation.  • Wrote REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework.  • Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  • Also involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  • Assisted the development team in sending the correct data via query strings using PostgreSQL as the back-end for storing data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Responsible for configuring NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB to for increasing compatibility with Django.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Wrote SQL Queries and implemented stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many bug fixes for applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors).  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Generated Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, SVN, Unit Test Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science JNT University Skills Django. (8 years), MySQL (6 years), Python (8 years), SQL (6 years), Subversion (4 years) Links http://www.montage.global Additional Information • IT professional with 8+ years of referable experience in designing, developing and maintaining large-scale systems/applications with significant expertise in Python 2.7, 3.2 and 3.5.  • Experience on full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Expert knowledge & experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience in writing REST APIs in Python for large-scale applications.  • Expert in using Python's REST framework.  • Strong experience in using Python's application development frameworks such as Django.  • Experience in real-time configuration and management of MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra and PostgreSQL databases on a large scale.  • Experience on several Python packages like Numpy, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, and PyTables.  • Experience in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Good experience in writing SQL queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  • Significant application development experience in Ubuntu, RedHat and Windows environments.  • Extensive experience on developmental tools such as Eclipse, PyCharm and Sublime Text, version control tools like Git and Apache SVN.  • Experience in testing and debugging applications using PyUnit, PyTest and JUnit frameworks.  • Experience in writing test cases from the requirements and also, writing various test scripts for the applications.  • Hands-on experience in Test-Driven Development environment and software development lifecycles such as Waterfall and Agile (Scrum).  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.    Technical Competencies:    Programming Languages Python, Java  Web services SOAP, RESTful  Data bases Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, NoSQL, and SQL Server  IDE's and tools Eclipse, Pycharm, NetBeans  Python Frameworks Django  OS &Environment XP, windows, Linux, UNIX, Ubuntu  UNIX Shell Scripting UNIX Shell Scripting  Version control GitHub, SVN  Development Methodologies Agile, Scrum