Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CVS Health Woonsocket, RI ? Around 9 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask.  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, Object Oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  ? Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Flask.  ? Experience in using object-relational mapper (ORM) library to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  ? Experienced in Python modules such as numpy, matplotlib etc for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  ? Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  ? Experience Object Oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Experience in creating/maintaining automation framework and making necessary improvements as needed.  ? Experience in writing scripts for data modelling.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS Cloudwatch, AWS Config, Auto-scaling, IAM user management, and AWS S3.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, Javascript and JQuery.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Developed data format file that is required by the Model to perform analytics using Spark SQL and Hive query language.  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Experienced in writing PERL script to extract data from text files, web automation and converting the file formats.  ? Analyzed the sql scripts and designed it by using Spark SQL for faster performance.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  ? Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  ? Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  ? Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  ? Used Python library Beautifulsoup for web scraping.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  ? Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer CVS Health - Woonsocket, RI April 2017 to Present Job Description:  A pharmacy innovation company with a simple and clear purpose: Helping people on their path to better health.  Responsibilities:    ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angularjs, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  ? Containerized and Deployed the ETL and REST services on AWS ECS through the CI/CD Jenkins pipe.  ? Involved in the error checking and testing of the ETL procedures and programs of Informatica session log.  ? Designed/wrote the tech specs (Source-Target mappings) for the ETL mappings along with the Unit Test scripts.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  ? Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  ? Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  ? Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  ? Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  ? Version control using GITHub.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Go language, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer CYMER, CA December 2014 to April 2017 Job Description:  ASML is one of the world's leading manufacturers of lithography systems that help enable Moore's Law and the creation of increasingly powerful and capable electronic devices. At our San Diego location we are renowned for developing both deep ultraviolet (DUV) lithography light sources and next generation extreme ultraviolet (EUV) light sources. We are a multinational company with over 70 locations in 16 countries, headquartered in Veldhoven, the Netherlands.  Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the User Interface for the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and JSON.  ? Successfully migrated the database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data Integrity.  ? Developed merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Used Django Database APIs to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  ? Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined Function.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  ? Implemented data analysis with various analytical tools such as Python/SQL, Pandas, NumPy,  Matplotlib, Statsmodels, Gensim, Jupyter Notebook, and Anaconda.  ? Used jQuery for all client-side data manipulation.  ? Worked on data queries to obtain lists of references from online databases for analysis.  ? Used Perl in web automation and in developing web chat box for the customers.  ? Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Maintenance and continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  ? Implemented of Automation framework, database testing using AutoEasy.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? We have implemented pyspark for Transformation and Actions in Spark.  ? Implemented various Spark Actions and Transformations by creating RDD's in HDFS.  ? Developed Spark scripts by using Scala IDE's as per the business requirement.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  ? Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  ? Supporting the data warehousing application to make sure the jobs are run as scheduled and the SLAs are met.  ? Maintaining the application for daily operations and scaling according to Business requirements.  ? Involved in the Complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  ? Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQt, PyQuery, Agile, SDLC, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angularjs, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, Windows, PostgreSQL, Numpy, SQLAlchemy. Python Developer Rabobank International - Thousand Oaks, CA September 2012 to December 2014 Job Description:  Rabobank's businesses in the Americas are part of the Rabobank Group, a leading global financial services provider serving more than 10 million customers worldwide. Headquartered in The Netherlands, the Rabobank Group operates in 48 countries, providing clients in every market with industry expertise, extensive experience, innovative resources - and deep local market and sector knowledge.  Responsibilities:  ? Develop the existing application to enhance the features using Django Framework and improve the performance using SOAP Web Services.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, Bootstrap, and REST API calls using the JSON.  ? Used GitHub for version control.  ? Integrating the application with Django REST framework for building the API's.  ? Worked with on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Selecting features, building and optimizing classifiers using machine learning techniques    ? Data mining using state-of-the-art methods    ? Extending company's data with third party sources of information when needed    ? Enhancing data collection procedures to include information that is relevant for building analytic systems    ? Processing, cleansing, and verifying the integrity of data used for analysis    ? Doing ad-hoc analysis and presenting results in a clear manner    ? Creating automated anomaly detection systems and constant tracking of its performance    ? Extensively used XLSX reader and writer modules to read, write and analyze data and project the results as per the client request.  ? Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  ? Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO)  ? Creating Restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL and Oracle.  ? Using SQLAlchemy with Flask and PostgreSQL as database for developing the web application.  ? Used REST and SOAP API for testing web service for server-side changes.  ? Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintain and related task using Jenkins, Maven, Python, Bash.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgresql with complete data integrity.  ? Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bitbucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Continuous improvement in integration workflow, project testing, and implementation of continuous integration pipeline with Jenkins.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.10, MySQL, Python Scripting, MongoDB, AJAX, SOAP, REST, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS). Python Developer Healthfirst, NY May 2010 to September 2012 Job Description:  Healthfirst is a provider-sponsored health insurance company that serves more than 1.2 million members in downstate New York. Healthfirst offers top-quality Medicaid, Medicare Advantage, Child Health Plus, and Managed Long Term Care plans. Healthfirst Leaf Qualified Health Plans and the Healthfirst Essential Plan are offered on NY State of Health, The Official Health Plan Marketplace.  Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for using the best technologies to add features to the existing system and services.  ? Involved in all aspects of the development process from product inception to scaling in production.  ? Responsible for driving software development best practices for the team and also, mentoring and developing junior engineers.  ? Working in collaboration with project managers and higher management in cross-functional teams within Sales and Account Management, to understand business requirements and develop efficient, elegant approaches to their implementation.  ? Writing REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django REST framework.  ? Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  ? Also involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  ? Assisted the development team in sending the correct data via query strings using PostgreSQL as the back-end for storing data.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Responsible for configuring NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongodb to for increasing compatibility with Django.  ? Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Good experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many bug fixes for applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  ? Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors).  ? Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  ? Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  ? Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  ? Generated Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  ? Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  ? Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, CSS, HTML, Angularjs, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, GIT, urllib, urllib2. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (9 years), CSS (9 years), Django. (9 years), HTML (9 years), JavaScript (9 years)