Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - General Motors New York, NY -    • Over 6 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Support and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.    • Software Developer with 5 years of experience coding in C, C++, Embedded Linux and Assembly.    • Experience working in Java, JavaScript, and Python software development environments.    • Experience with Design, code, debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.    • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Jquery and also on XAMPP and LAMP.    • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, CSS and Bootstrap.    • Hand on experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.    • Supported C++ testing framework to improve automated testing.    • Sound experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, Emacs.    • Expertise in On-site Applications/Services/Packages using Chef along with AWS for EC2/S3 and ELB with Chef Cookbooks.    • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX.    • Hands on Integrated Development Environments experience like Pycharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.    • Proficiency in scripting for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.    • Experience in full SDLC starting from Design and Development, Testing and documenting the entire life cycle using various methodologies.    • Expertise in developing consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.    • Experienced with batch processing of data sources using Apache Spark.    • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark.    • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.    • Expertise in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.    • Proficient in programming with Python IDE's like PyCharm Java IDE's like Eclipse and Sublime.    • Expertise in writing AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP- JSON strings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer General Motors - Detroit, MI January 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Implemented AWS high-availability using AWS Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), which performed balance across instances.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Used JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) for smooth operation of application.  • Responsible to use and implement Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript, IronPython.  • Gathered all requirements for developing and analyzing requirement of projects.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python and portlet.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.    Environment: Python 3.3, PyQT, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, AWS, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, MySQL, IronPython, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Numpy, IPython, sqlalchemy, Django Tastypie. Python Developer Merck& Co., Inc August 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications to implement the model view control architecture using Django Framework.  • Build database mapping classes using Django models and Apache Cassandra.  • Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data.  • Involved in developing Restful services using Python Flask framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed complex database prediction models and pattern matching algorithms in C++.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Managed MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Loading claims into Facets using Kron Shell Scripting and Perl stored in Sybase database.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, webbapp2, perl, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Rest, Heroku, GIT, Kron, urllib, urllib2, OracleDB, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API Python Developer US BANK - Los Angeles, CA November 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used standard Python modules viz csv, robot parser, itertools, pickl, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and REST API calls.  • Creating data pipelines using Apache Spark, a big-data processing and computing framework.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database  • Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors).  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, webbapp2, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Rest, GIT, urllib, .net, urllib2, OracleDB, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API. Python Developer Rockwell Automation - San Jose, CA October 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Implemented the business logic in back end with Pro-C and C++  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Worked on creating documents in Mongo database.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across 67all the teams for several projects.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, webbapp2, AJAX, LAMP, UnitTest, Jquery, XML Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.4/1.3, Flask, perl, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL, Java/J2EE, PyJamas, Jython, IronPython, Cpython.    Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, Amazon Web Services(Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS), XML, JSON, Jquery, Angular Js.    Python Modules: csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, urllib, urllib2.    Python Libraries: Pandas, NumPy, UnitTest, IPython, sqlalchemy, Django Tastypie, Beautiful Soup, wxPython and matplotlib.  Python Version Control Tools: Git, GitHub, SVN, VSS  Database: MongoDB, Cassandra, MySQL, PostgreSQL    Operating systems: Windows XP, Win 7, 8.1, 10, Linux, OS X.    Python Automation Testing: UnitTest, Nose.  Python Packages: JSON, CSV, XML, XLS    Methodologies: Agile/Scrum, Waterfall.    Bug Tracking Tools: Jira, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest.    Other: Apache Shark, Dreamweaver, Eclipse IDE, NetBeans IDE, FlashFXP, LAMP,