Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Quicken Loans Seattle, WA Work Experience Senior Python Developer Quicken Loans - New York, NY April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Python/Django framework for REST Services.  • Created and tested many features for dashboard using python and JavaScript.  • Executed various MySQL database queries from python using Docker, Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Integrating Kubernetes with Networking, Storage, Security, Telemetry and other services to provide a comprehensive container infrastructure.  • Managing the Docker container through the pods and performing the load balance between the pods through Kubernetes.  • Deployed many Python bugfixes of the two main applications that are main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created project designs using MVC architecture components.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Cassandra, Jenkins, ajax, PostgreSQL, jQuery, MySQL, node JS and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty Pie Web Framework using Git and jQuery.  • Developed web applications, RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Cassandra, Docker, MongoDB, Django; good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, Matplotlib, angular JS, jQuery, hibernate, AWS, node JS, pyramid, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and perform analysis using Django, PostgreSQL.  • Developed the application using the Test-Driven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Docker, jQuery, Cassandra, MongoDB, Java, Matplotlib, ajax, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript pyramid and jQuery.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and Website interface is created using Django's view controller and template.  • An application was developed in Linux environment and dealt with all its commands.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and Website interface is created using Django's view controller and template.  • Python Unit test library was used for the purpose of testing many programs on Python and other codes. Python Developer Washington, DC July 2015 to March 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Designed front end using HTML, Bootstrap, and CSS.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, ajax, Cassandra, PostgreSQL, AWS, MongoDB and Linux.  • Used Python libraries like Selenium, NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  • Worked on several Python libraries like NumPy, Pandas and Matplotlib.  • Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process by extending Django user model.  • Worked in container-based technologies like Docker, Kubernetes and Open shift and used Jenkins pipelines to drive all micro-services builds out to the Docker registry  • and then deployed to Kubernetes  • Design develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, flask, node JS, jQuery, Docker, Cassandra, JavaScript, and React that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, ajax, flask, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, pyramid and Linux. Created Several XML Schemas and Developed Stored PL/SQL Procedures and Packages to automatically create and drop table indexes.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python,  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Used NumPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas to generate products for major enterprises.  • Created a Python based web application using Python scripting for data processing, Docker, jQuery, hibernate, ajax, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML and CSS.  • Wrote & executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector & MySQL dB package.  • Developed and designed automation script using Python and Bash.  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django Python Developer American Express - New York, NY March 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities  • Used Python, Django and Pyramid frameworks to develop applications and responsible for both back-end programming and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, Docker, Angular.JS, and other technologies.  • Built a new CI pipeline and performed testing and deployment automation with Docker, Jenkins, and Puppet.  • Redesigned and redeployed the Nagios implementation. Nodes automatically added/removed themselves via Puppet.  • Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, and worked on Docker Engine, Docker HUB, Docker Images,  • Used AJAX for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and wrote Python scripts to parse XML and JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Implemented business logic using Python and used HTML, pyramid, MongoDB, AWS, jQuery, PostgreSQL, CSS, ajax, flask, node JS, JavaScript and Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVT (Model View Template) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, pyramid, flask, Docker, ajax, CSS, Cassandra, JavaScript.  • Extensively worked on developing UI components using Angular JS and JSON to interact Restful web services.  • Designed and developed data management system using PostgreSQL and MySQL.  • Set up and maintain CI infrastructure to streamline build process, unit tests, functional tests, integration tests and artifacts deployments.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using Ant and Maven as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Extensively worked on Application servers like WebLogic and Apache Tomcat.  • Used Ajax for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and Worked on configuring TCP/IP, network interface, assigning static routes and hostnames.  • Developed many features for dashboard using Ruby on Rails, node, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript (J2EE)  • Used SVC version control system for maintain version of code & Used agile methodology. Python Developer Juniper Networks - Los Angeles, CA April 2011 to March 2014 Progressive Auto Insurance portal provides ability for end customers/users to request a quote, provide quote details, purchase auto insurance and payment of insurance amount. This platform is built using a Struts framework in the presentation layer. The back-end functionality is built using Oracle as data persistence layer and Hibernate as data access layer.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on the project from gather requirement developing the entire application, with help from another analyst.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Also gained familiarity with supporting technologies like kubernetes and Mesos.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle 9i.  • Created database access layer using JDBC, Ajax, jQuery and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked in an agile development environment. Skills AJAX (7 years), AWS (7 years), DATABASE (7 years), DJANGO (7 years), jQuery (7 years) Additional Information Skills    Programming Languages: Python, C, C++, PHP.  Django, flask, pyramid, angular, node, LAMP, WAMP, JavaScript, hibernate, React, AWS, jQuery, PostgreSQL, GIT, AJAX.  Libraries: beautiful soap, PyCharm, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, urlib2.  Database: Oracle, DB2, SQL, servers, SSIS, SSRS  Containers: Docker, kubernets, docker hub, docker engine.  Development tools: Open Grok, Jenkins, Coverity, pylint, pdb, Sublime Text, Eclipse, emacs, gvim, Notepad++, gdb  Version Controls: CVS, SVN, GIT, GitHub    Methodologies: Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall.