Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Rockwell Automation Cleveland, OH • Around six years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python 3.5/3.3/2.7, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS, HTML, C++, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery & Angular Js.  • Experience as an PL/SQL Developer and Data Analyst too.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Well versed in Django ORM and SqlAlchamy.  • Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django, Numpy, Pandas.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience in developing AWS clouding system and Building integration with a number of third parties, making heavy use of asynchronous processing with Celery and RabbitMQ.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript,Bootstrap.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Expertise in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experienced in developing WebServices with Python programming language.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Good skills in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript including familiarity with common libraries like jQuery, Foundation, Bootstrap and Backbone.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting,SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Experienced in data modeling for analytics by building queries using Map/Reduce (pymongo/mongodb) and implementing for visualization using Elastic search, kibana and logstash on Apache server.  • Good knowledge of Perl programming along with experience in Agile and Waterfall working environment.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database9i, 10g, 11g. Architecture.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Have good idea about tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, and Axosoft.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum), involved in daily standup meetings.  • Responsible for timely releases for Sprints.  • Great affinity to knowledge and strong attention to detail.  • Excellent communication, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Rockwell Automation - Cleveland, OH July 2015 to Present Responsibilities:    • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed various sections using AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Velocity, Ajax, Json and Spring web service.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Developed a proof of concept for using Cassandra to store and process Dealers history.  • Developed an internal web application with Cassandra to perform high read/write operations on Dealers data.  • Developed Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Familiar with C++ and JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed application using Amazon Web Service like EC2, cloud search, Elastic load balancer ELB, Cloud Fron Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Leveraged AWS to allow users to dynamically update static websites  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Used Git to resolve and codingthe work on python and portlet.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Apache Cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.    Environment:  Python 3.3, PyQT, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, CASSANDRA 2.2.6 Windows, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, C++, and python libraries such as Numpy, IPython, sqlalchemy, Django Tastypie Python Developer Chevron - San Ramon, CA December 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Installation and setting up Python/Django/MySQL in AWS and EC2 cloud platform  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Developed Data Mining Applications using PHP and Python.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Worked on creating documents in Mongo database.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.    Environment:  Python 2.4, Django, CSS, HTML, UNIX, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT. Python Developer MARRIOTT - Bethesda, MD July 2011 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing web applications using Django Framework to implement the model view control architecture.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Wrote web pages in a combination of codes such as JQuery, AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis &Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.    Environment:  Python 2.7, Django 1.8, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, webbapp2, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Rest, Heroku, GIT, urllib, urllib2, OracleDB, UNIX, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API Jr. Python Developer TJX - Marlborough, MA October 2010 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed datacenter management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Python  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Installation and setting up Python/Django/MySQL in AWS and EC2 cloud platform  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment.  Python, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, git, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts.  Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.4/1.3, Flask, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL, Java/J2EE, PyJamas, Jython, IronPython,Clery, Cpython, AngularJS, RabbitMQ, UNIX  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, CASSANDRA XHTML, XML, JSON, Jquery, Angular Js.  Database MySQL,PL/SQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11g.  Operating systems Windows XP, Win 7, 8.1, 10, Linux, OS X.  Methodologies Agile, V Model, Waterfall, Hybrid.