Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - IBM India Pvt Ltd • 2.6 years of IT experience in developing custom applications using Python.  • Good exposure in creating APIs using Django Framework.  • Knowledge on HTML, CSS, Java Script.  • Involved in complete SDLC including architecture, analysis, design, development, testing, implementation & maintenance of application software.  • Excellent analytical and team working skills, has great attention to details and persistence at improving things until they get right.  • Basic knowledge of Django frameworks  • Comprehensive problem solving abilities and analytical reasoning  • Good interpersonal skills, commitment, result oriented, hard working with a quest and zeal to learn new technologies and undertake challenging tasks. Work Experience Python Developer IBM India Pvt Ltd June 2016 to Present -2016.    technical skills  Programming Knowledge: Python, OOPS, core java.  Operating Systems: Mac, Linux, Windows  Frameworks: Django, Opencafe  Programming IDE: Eclipse, Sublime Text.  Database: MySQL, Oracle.    PROJECT-1:    Product: Network Automation  Technologies used: Python, MySQL, Django, HTML, CSS  Team Size: 5  Duration: June 2017 - Till Date    Description:  In this I have developed automation framework using Python, Opencafe to run all the tests on the UVA Django API. It involves Django to develop the API to create new users, online recharge, Balance Enquiry, Adding New plans etc. It also contains email engine to sent email and SMS to the customers once the transaction done. All the request and response processes are implemented by making request to API and handling the response received from API.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the requirement of the client.  • Managing the MySQL database  • Testing the functionality using unit test in python    PROJECT-2:    Product: Far Easter Integrated Banking system  Technologies used: Python, Django, MySQL, Opencafe  Team Size: 4  Duration: June - 2016 to May - 2017    Description:  In this I have developed python logic to handle request data, process data and render response. This response is JSON response. I have used Django Middleware layers to handle exceptions, etc. Used OAuth module to handle user authentication, and have written layer above that to make authentication modularized. All modules developed are reusable components which can be reused with minimal changes.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in automating the APIs by using opencafe request response processing.  • Understanding of Functional specifications provided by client.  • Design the Web Pages and user controls using Python, Django.  • Integrate the server with different servers.  • Development of admin panel for the tool.  • Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the code redundancy to the optimal level.  • Requirement clarification from the client, TL and PM