Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Office Depot Boca Raton, FL, FL • Over 5+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on various domains.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Expert in Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python and Django.  • Handy experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask frameworks.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, MVC3, Bootstrap and HTML5.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in Amazon AWS Cloud platform and its features.  • Strong experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience in managing datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Experience implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django, MYSQL.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Python Developer Office Depot - Boca Raton, FL November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of users.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Workied with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python. Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interfacUsed PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML 5.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration services.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Developed different REST APIs in Jinja2 and flask framework with using Python scripting  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Bootstrap CSS3 / HTML framework.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Set up rules and policies with a Node.js/ Python back end.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python 3.7, Java, PyUnit, Pandas, HTML5, DHTML, AJAX, CSS3, JavaScript, Django, Jinja2, Jenkins, Amazon Web Services (AWS), JSON, REST, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Git, JIRA, Perl, SQL, Agile, windows and Linux. Python Developer Comerica Bank - Brea, CA August 2016 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Supported user groups by handling target-related software issues/service requests, identifying/fixing bugs.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.    Environment: Python, Django, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, Open Stack API, Panda, ANT, Jenkins, Rake, JIRA, Agile, SQL, Windows. Python Developer Redbrick Health February 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Built a GC analytic tool using Python, to help clients analyze data and profile risk against a wide spectrum of reinsurance options.  • Developed custom reports using HTML, Python and MySQL.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Documented the revised workflow using confluence wiki.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Key performance index and filtering of displayed columns to help customers understand the analytics data that is provided by GC.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Worked in an agile development environment.    Environment: Python, PyQT, PyQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, Ajax, AWS, JSON, agile, Web Services (SOAP), XML, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Python Developer Prudential Financials - Newark, NJ September 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, and JavaScript.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Generated PDF daily and Monthly statements using Aspose PDF Kit.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS/HTML framework.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Skills AJAX (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), SQL (5 years), MYSQL (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL, PHP  Python Framework Flask/Django, Jinja2  Databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle  Web Technologies XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, MVC3, Bootstrap, RESTful, AJAX  Web Services SOAP, REST    Methodologies Agile, Scrum  Operating Systems Window, UNIX, Linux