SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER SR. <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER - Berkshire Hathaway Omaha, NE Work Experience SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER Berkshire Hathaway - Omaha, NE November 2017 to Present • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • For the dashboard, utilized the Python web development framework TurboGear.  • Developed user interface of the website (used HTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX)  • Used the Python's modules numpy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Involved and worked on different Rest API's development by using Flask and Swagger.  • Modeled the application to support bi-directional communication between server and client using Akka HTTP.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like raceroute, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Worked on several Palettes such as SOAP, REST, HTTP, FTP, JDBC, File, JMS etc.  • Rewrite existing Python /Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Develop module to build Django ORM queries that can pre-load data to greatly reduce the number of databases queries needed to retrieve the same amount of data.  • Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services under linux environment.  • Created and executed test plans using PyUnit. Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used DBI/DBD for Oracle connection from Perl.  • Created batch jobs using Unix shell scripts and Perl scripts to process database activities  • Recording of Scripts Web Services HTML using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods.  • Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product.  • Used Machine learning techniques like unsupervised Classification, optimization and prediction.  • Good Knowledge on engineers for building Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Deep Learning capabilities in the Enterprise Services Platform.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet and involved in server-side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Responsible for the Automation of the deployment of the Conductor application on AWS lambda using high-end AWS architectural components.  • Developed AWS lambda scripts to build on demand EC2 instance formation.  • Created the policy to migrate the logs from AWS S3 to Glacier automatically from S3 bucket PYTHON DEVELOPER AT&T - Dallas, TX December 2015 to October 2017 • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package to retrieve information.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Automated application deployment in the cloud using Docker technology using Elastic Container service scheduler.  • Used Pandas and Scikit-learn libraries for statistics Analysis.  • Used python flask framework to develop Restful API's service.  • Created Python and Bash scripts to monitor & increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations.  • Designed Cassandra scheme for the APIs  • Developed a Django CMS based promotion management system offering the ability to created arbitrary forms through an admin interface.  • Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack Monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has integrated Ansible with Run deck and Jenkins.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, iter tools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on FLASK Framework.  • Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Jinja and Angular.js.  • Extracted data from XML files using PERL-XML modules.  • Good understanding and knowledge of Apache Airflow.  • Wrote multiple Shell and Perl scripts for the automation of the unit testing.  • Wrote multiple Perl programs to generate configuration files from Oracle Database.  • Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Design and manage API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • In Machine learning background and skills in data science, applied research and heavy-duty coding Working on with Python programming and Python libraries for data science.  • Used Machine learning techniques like unsupervised Classification, optimization and prediction. PYTHON DEVELOPER McKesson - San Francisco, CA May 2014 to November 2015 • Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python  • Authored encryption scripts  • Collaborated with cross-functional teams to scope project requirements, author documents, etc.  • Handled the security content and issues.  • Created many web applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Used MVT pattern to encapsulate client/server interactions helps to illustrate software-pattern roles as well as developer roles by separating object, components, and services into multi-tiers with well-defined boundaries.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML, BIG DATA to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, Web Server Gateway Interface (WSGI) and SQL internal admin tools behave Behavior-driven development (BDD).  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend of applications.  • Implementing admin sites to manage database information with Flask Admin, MySQL and SQLite.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Wrote Python scripts to XML documents and load the data in the database.  • Designed and developed application front-end GUI using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax.  • Designed controller and business logic using SpringMVCmodule.  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client-side validations using JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  • Extensively developed stored procedures, triggers, functions and packages in oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all the hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Implemented SOAP using web services to interact with various devices to pull real-time data on the network.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed Perl and Shell scripts for upload of data feed into database  • Developed reports in Perl for our end users. PYTHON DEVELOPER IBM June 2012 to April 2014 • Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python  • Authored encryption scripts  • Collaborated with cross-functional teams to scope project requirements, author documents, etc.  • Handled the security content and issues.  • Created many web applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • As a team member, I was involved in design of Employee Management software called iconnect.  • Maintained the client-server environment and implemented the updates successfully  • Created and modified required views/tables/triggers using SQL and worked on database bug fixes.  • Developed Detail Design and Technical Design Document, Designed unit Test Plans.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX and Used JQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Hosted various company-wide training sessions on Pandas, RESTful, Microservices.  • To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  • Developed a web tool that monitors and drives the automated continuous integration system allowing release managers to track changes.  • Developed a Coverity mail script that extracts code defects data per component for a daily report to drive reducing defects in the code base  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib.  • Successfully migrated the Elasticsearch database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity. Education Bachelor's Skills Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (5 years), Angular.js (7 years), Apache Cassandra (5 years), API (5 years), ASTERADATA (4 years), AWS (5 years), Bash. (5 years), Bootstrap (4 years), Cassandra (3 years), Git (4 years), HTML (7 years), JIRA (6 years), JQuery. (6 years), Machine learning (4 years), Perl (5 years), scripting (6 years), Shell scripting (4 years), SOAP (4 years), SQL (5 years), XML (3 years), Javascript (7 years), ASP (6 years), jQuery (5 years), CSS (5 years), HTML 5 (7 years), MySQL (6 years), PHP (6 years) Additional Information SKILLS    • Jquery  • AngularJS  • Djanjo  • Mango DB  • My SQL  • Flask  • HTML  • JDBC  • Git-hub  • XSLT  • CVS  • Cassandra  • MVW  • Shell Scripting  • SOAP  • Restful API  • DBF  • Servelets  • Bash  • Vugen  • Perl  • Pyramid  • Web2py  • Tornado  • Flask  • Bottle  • Turbogears  • Mako  • Jinja2  • devops  • air flow  • tensor flow  • machine learning  • algorithm  • AI  • AWS  • EC2  • Lambada  • EBS sys.  • HIVE  • PIG  • OOZIE  • SPARK  • Mapreduce  • Sqoop  • XML  • XSD  • XSLT  • DTD  • DOM  • SAXparser  • Xquery  • JIRA  • Jboss  • Shell scripting  • Dojo  • SUN SOLARIS  • Bugzilla  • JBDC  • JSF  • WSDL  • GitHub  • Puppet  • Chef  • Anaconda  • Matplotlib  • Clear Quest  • Emacs  • Linux  • Ubuntu  • Bootstrap