Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Verizon Boston, MA • Over 6+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies. Solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Django.  • Extensive experience in Requirement Analysis, Application Design & Development and profound knowledge on SDLC using agile and V-model.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and Jquery.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experience in using third party tools like Telerik, DevExpress and kendo Controls.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, Pychart, Highcharts) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, Jquery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Expertise in developing web-based applications using libraries and frameworks like Angular JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ruby on Rails, Knockout.js, Node Js, Backbone.js, React JS, D3 JS and Require JS.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  • Sound knowledge in Spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  • Extensive use of Object Oriented design methodology and Agile in software development.  • Extensive experience in Building web applications using Kendo UI widgets, JQuery, Angular JS.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite,PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Experience on Web development using HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON by following W3C standards.  • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, Cloud Front, Route 53.  • Extensive development experience in Java, Struts, JSPs, Servlets, taglibs, Hibernate, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, SQL, XML and JSON.  • Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, Pycharm, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer.  • Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy&bottlePy framework.  • Leveraging queueing architectures with RabbitMQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Worked on Python Testing frameworks like Zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test driven development methodologies.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Proficient in creating front end-systems using JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 and also MVC frameworks such as Angular.js and Node.js.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Verizon - Waltham, MA April 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed UI for creating Dashboard application using AngularJS, D3, C3, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed and implemented Python scripts to automate retrieval, parsing and reporting of configuration parameters from Network Devices connected to customer networks.  • Involved in user interface design and development using JSP, Servlet, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Web application development for backend system on using Angular with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Wrote and tested Python scripts to create new data files for Linux server configuration using a Python template tool.  • Designed solutions with D3.js JavaScript Library to build data visualization frameworks.  • Modified controlling databases using SQL generated via Python and Perl code, collected and analyzed data with Python programs using SQL queries from the database of data collected from the systems under tests.  • Technical experience with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  • Developed new user interface components for different modules using Kendo UI with various controls including Grid controls, and chart controls etc.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using jQuery, Ajax and jQueryUI.  • Worked on translation of web pages to different languages as per client requirements.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service and etc.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Created numerous reports using report lab and xlrt/xlwt python packages.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  • Created, activated and programmed in Anaconda environment.  • Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching Hadoop Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts.  • Developed Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  • Installed Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, AWS and developed multiple Map Reduce jobs in PIG and Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Involved in the Web/Application development using Python 3.5, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific format with Excel macros and python libraries such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy and matplotlib.  • Prototype proposal for Issue Tracker website using Python/Django connecting MySQL as Database.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux. Python Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ August 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Used JavaScript data visualization framework (D3.js) to display the information in a chart view.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Created custom directives in Angular JS for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads).  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Experience in python, Jupyter, Scientific computing stack (numpy, scipy, pandasand matplotlib).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Developed new scripts a using many regular expressions in order to match and extract data as required to comply with various compliance reporting  requirements.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update,  read and delete.  • Worked on Anti Money Laundering (AML) application to develop new modules to build reports for identifying various accounts and activities.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, matplotlib.  • Analyzing various logs that are been generating and predicting/forecasting next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium and Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Analyzing the source data coming from different sources (SQL Server, Oracle, Sales force and also from flat files like Access and Excel) and working with business users and developers to develop the Model.  • Developed single page application by using Angular JS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers and Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked with PYTHON, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant social networking website around online HD streaming video.  • Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Used IBM DB2 SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Python Unit test library was used for the purpose of testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Worked on selenium testing framework.  • Performed different testing methods like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing and selenium testing.  • For the manipulation of data from the database various queries using SQL were written and created a database using MYSQL.  • Performed Flow Control, response to Front-End Request using PYTHON/MYSQL/AJAX.  • Implemented business logic in Python to prevent, detect and claim the duplicate payments.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services.  • Used Jenkins to deploy your Django application and run unit tests. Python Developer Energy Recovery - San Leandro, CA May 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in writing jQuery-based Ajax requests using jQuery.get or jQuery.ajax and jQuery.post.  • Used JavaScript and Struts Validation Framework for performing Front End Validations.  • Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on Mongo DB using Py Mongo module.  • Worked in a team, Involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matches requirements of the company.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Utilized JavaScript and JQuery to improve overall design and UI of campaign websites.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping.  • Exported Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium environment.  • Wrote SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Built main applications in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tasty pie, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Ember.js.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Created Git repository and added to GitHub project.  • Experienced in Linux shell commands and command line utilities.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Worked on JavaScript frameworks (Angular JS, Node JS) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build MVC Architecture with Angular JS.  • Developed pages in HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQUERY to meet the requirements.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Involved in development of User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, and JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, D3 JS and Knockout JS. Python Developer IBM January 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  •Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  •Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  •Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  •Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  •Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  •Used Python based GUI components for Frond-end functionality like selection criteria.  •Worked with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  •Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium, Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  •Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  •Knowledge of user authentication and authorization between multiple systems, servers, and environments.  •Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  •Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  •Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  •Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  •Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  •Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  •Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  •Build SQL, NOSQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  •Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  •Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  •Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands. Skills AJAX (6 years), CSS (6 years), DJANGO (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), MYSQL (6 years) Additional Information Skills    Python (6 years), Numpy (6 years), Django (6 years), MongoDB (5 years), JavaScript (6 years), Cassandra (6 years), Pandas (6 years), AJAX (6 years), PySpark (6 years), Mocha (6 years), PyQT (6 years)    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: PYTHON, R, SAS, JAVA, C C++, DBMS: SQL Server 7.0, Oracle, MySQL, PLSQL, XSLT, WSDL, SHELL  Tools: Progress Sonic 8.5, Progress Savion 7.6, Oracle BPEL, Software  Framework Django, Flask, AngularJS, NodeJS.  Utilities: Eclipse, SOAP UI, ANT, R studio, MQ Oracle BPM, Oracle P6, MS SharePoint, Tableau Desktop  Databases: MySQL, SQL Server, NOSQL. MongoDB.  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins, Amazon EC2  IDE PyCharm, Spyder, PyDev, Intellij IDEA, Sublime Text, Brackets  Application Server: Weblogic 8.1, Apache Tomcat Web Languages and Frameworks: ML, CSS, Web-Services, XML, JSP, JavaScript, Java EE