Python Developer (Full stack) <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Full stack) Python Developer (Full stack) - FoodNearU Dublin, CA Work Experience Python Developer (Full stack) FoodNearU - Dublin, CA February 2016 to Present DESCRIPTION: FoodNearU is food ordering application which allows user to order food online and to be delivered at users address. It has mobile as well as a web application. Worked on integrating Google maps API in the application to determine the location of restaurants near the user and managed to implement the feature to send text messages using Twilio API.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Design and Developed a website using Python, on Django Web Framework  • Existing Python/Django modules were re-written to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Build SQL queries for performing various operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • To improve user experience and worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Developed scripts using pandas to easily perform read/write operations to CSV files, manipulate and compare data by columns according to restaurants and their ratings.  • Worked on Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation of the application.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku  • Used Jenkins to do CICD (Continuous integration and continuous deployment)  • Used Ansible platform to scale application on AWS cloud.  Environment: Python3.5, Django, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, GIT, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI, Heroku Python Developer Palo Alto, CA May 2014 to January 2016 DESCRIPTION: Worked with application, which helps integrate different sources of information and present it through a web-portal, used by SAP Customer service module.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations  • Used Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages  • Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented networking operations like SMTP mail server, web server and race route.  • Experienced with RabbitMQ service to publish and subscribe messages between different applications like CRM and Sales force.  • Deployed the release pipeline on Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Used Python mat plotlib library to build various graphs for business decision making  • Using python-twitter library fetched the twitter feeds for certain important keywords. Twitter uses OAuth to provide authorized access to its API  • Worked with python library Beautiful Soup to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Applied ETL for getting best result with Database and improve system behavior  • Tested complete application thoroughly in Bugzilla and Selenium IDE  Environment: Python 2.7/3.5, Django1.5, MongoDB, Linux, HTML, GIT, CSS, JavaScript Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI, Heroku Python Developer Dexcom Inc - San Diego, CA August 2012 to July 2013 Description: Worked with Dexcom Studio portal for clinics to monitor and chart the patient's glucose level in near realtime manner.Was responsible in data aggregation and charting through the collected data.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Python packages Numpy and MatPlotLib were used to generate graphical reports  • Used Django database API's to access database objects and Pandas module to analyze patients data on different health parameter.  • Used Python Pandas pivot module to transform or reshape data sets  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content  • Developed a set of library functions over the system based on the user needs  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging  • Created MongoDB database to handle the user's data  • Developing and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user  • Utilized various tools for debugging  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, MongoDB, Linux, HTML, GIT, CSS, JavaScript and Apache Web Server Python Developer Intuit May 2011 to June 2012 Description: Developed internal module for the representatives to work on the QuickBooks accounts which was developed using PyQT and helps manage the transaction records and queries.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Developed Enterprise Application in an AGILE environment using Python, Django, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on responsive design of Analytic Charts and Vector Maps  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Used PyQT to present the UI for the application, which can expedite the typical accounting a payroll tasks of the Quickbooks service representatives.  • Worked on Regex (Regular Expressions) for pattern matching algorithms and tested various Regex using url dispatcher in Django  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and used SQLAlchmey to fetch the data.  Environment: Python 2.7, PyQT, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML5/XHTML, CSS3, XML. Education Master of Science in Computer Science California State University Chico May 2014 Bachelor of Engineering in E&TC University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra May 2012 Skills Bootstrap (4 years), Database (4 years), Django (5 years), JavaScript (5 years), Python (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Programming Skills: C, C++, Python 2.7/3.5, Java  • Python framework: Django, Flask, Pandas  • Web Technologies: HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, RESTFul Web Services, AJAX, Angular2  • Database: Oracle SQL, MongoDB, Cassandra  • IDE/Version Control: MicrosoftVisualStudio, Android Studio, Oracle SQL Developer, Eclipse, WEKA,  PyCharm, Git  • Testing: Test Driven Development, Unit Testing (Google Test)  • OS: Linux, Windows, Mac