Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Food Crave • Over 5 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm.  • Experience as a Software Developer and coding with analytical programming and client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django and flask, My SQL, Unix and Linux, JavaScript, XML,Pyramid,web2py,Nodejs.  • Experience working with Puppet,Chef,Ansible for testing and deployment.  • Experienced with full Software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Proficient in Object oriented design experience, with extensive experience of Python-C/C++ binding using Boost Python and Python C types.  • Hands on experience in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, My SQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experience in DOCKER CONTAINER to build and deploy application.  • Extensive knowledge in My SQL and Mongo DB, Puppet, chef,Gunicorn.  • Experienced in front-end application development using JavaScript, HTML,XML and Web Services.  • Experience in Python Development using Python3.x/2.x, Pycharm, Spyder  • Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django.  • Experience in planning, designing, developing and implementation in the area of Amazon Web Services(AWS).  • Experienced in using HTML, HTML5, XML, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, and AJAX to deliver forefront user interfaces and components.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on My SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Excellent Debugging, Problem Solving, Optimization and Testing Skills.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Proficient in SQLite, MySQL and PostgreSQL databases with Python.  • Followed the best practice of Python such as PEP-8.  • Experience with SOAP and RESTAPIs.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Food Crave - Folsom, CA April 2015 to Present DESCRIPTION:  Food Crave is food ordering application which allows user to order food online and to be delivered at residence or business. Food Crave has an mobile as well as an web application. The custom application has many features like the restaurant login, customer login, Delivery driver modules and the Admin logins.    • Designed front end and backend of the admin application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for all issues and enhancements of the Admin module.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Worked on AngularJS for the client facing application  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template Language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Create a Docker images and save into registery containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle  • Deployed and managed a private puppet infrastructure in AWS to deploy application  • Increased the speed of pre-existing search indexes through DJango ORM optimizations.  • Developed a module to build Django ORM queries that can pre-load data to greatly reduce the number of databases queries needed to retrieve the same amount of data.  • Python app which analyzed activity and response times, code deployment and environment migration done in Amazon AWS. Quick access to Amazon API. Rendered Dashboard which provided important milestone Metrics. Reduced the release cycle overhead by half.  • Developed Restful micro services using Djangoand Python and deployed on Heroku server  • Deployed and managed a private puppet infrastructure in AWS to deploy application.  • Worked extensively on the Frontend with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Developed RESTful services using Python.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku  • Worked on the client facing AngularJs application.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, My SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, GitHub, Angular.JS, JIRA Python Developer Yahoo - Sunnyvale, CA July 2014 to March 2015 DESCRIPTION: The Scope of the Project is to create a UI for business support team in rebuilding the business and allowing them to manage their accounts and features. Implemented the new interface to use micro-services to efficiently use their accounts.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Automation of unit testing using Python.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries using Numpy, scipy, pylab.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for webscrapping.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python, Django, Resteasy, SpringMVC, Hibernate, Linux, HTML, CSS, MongoDB, Web services, SVN, Pandas, Bugzilla Python Developer Mckesson Healthmart - San Francisco, CA September 2013 to June 2014 DESCRIPTION: This application was designed to help the sales person take the survey of the Healthmart franchise store. The sales representative used to fill the forms and come back and upload the responses on the sales force system. There was an unnecessary effort put because Salesforce UI was not compatible with tablets they carried, and did not support any offline usage. So a new tablet web application was developed to give a rich interface with offline connectivity fix for each sales representative to handle the application.  Responsibilities:  • Used Python and DJango to develop the Web modules.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Javascript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Graphical data representation using Numpy, SciPy, Pandas, Pylab.  • Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Used JQuery for all client side Javascript manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.    Environment: Python, Bugzilla, C++, Java, Mongodb, SQL server, Linux, Eclipse, Shell, File handling, SSH, UNIX, Pandas. Jr. Python Developer AXIS BANK - GUJARAT, IN June 2011 to July 2013 Axis Bank is one of the largest bank in India and I have worked on the Mortgage and lending division. Here I implemented the mortgage application backend using Php, Djnago, Python softwares.  Responsibilities:  • Used Django database API's to access database objects.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and MatPlotLib.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Wrote programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Create Cassandra database to handle the user's data (server-client).  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developing and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user.  • Utilized various IDEs and internal debug tools during debugging.  • Analyzing the data in design database.  • Maintenance of legacy application that where developed in Php.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, GIT, CSS, JavaScript and Apache Web Server. Education BS in COMPUTER ENGINEERING Pune University 2010 Skills DJANGO (5 years), LINUX (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), Git (4 years), DATABASE (3 years), MS SQL SERVER (3 years), SQL (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  ? Primary Languages: Python, SQL, Python, R, Perl,Ruby  ? Python Libraries: Pandas, Numpy, UnitTest, JSON,CSV, XML, XLS  ? Python Framework: Django,Pyramid,Flask,  ? Version Control Tools: Git, Github, SVN, VSS  ? Bug Tracking Tools: Jira, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  ? Database: Sqlite3, MongoDB  ? Operating System: Unix, Linux, Windows  ? RDBMS: Oracle 11G/10G/9i/8i, SQL Server, DB2,MS Access