Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Bentonville, AR • 7+ years of experience in Web and Application Development coding in Python, Django and Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Experienced with full software development life cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Responsible for SW product quality by ensuring by conducting code reviews, coding standards are  met, using industry best practices, and using static analysis tools.  • Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker  • Developed mobile application on IOS and Android.  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Experience in NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Confidential- Bentonville, Arkansa February 2015 to Present • Worked alone on the project from gather requirement developing the entire application, with help from other analyst.  • Experience in working on OpenStack components along with Salesforce CRM (SAAS, PAAS).  • Good understanding of NoSQL databases such as MongoDB, Datastax, Redis and Apache Cassandra.  • Performed web testing and automated testing using Selenium in the test environment and opened bugs in the bug tracking tool.  • Experience with configuration management and related tools like Puppet.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX,SaaS, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Familiar with JSON based also Used Django APIs for database access  • Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, ActiveMQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge).  • Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools  • As a Full Stack Developer actively involved in Business Layer and Data Management components of this  multi-tiered web based system over J2EE architecture.  • Design and develop RESTful APIs that will be utilized in AngularJS components  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Worked on a resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Used ansible for automating cloud deployment process.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Install and Configure Linux with Apache, Oracle 8I and PHP (LAMP Project).  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Linux, windows, Django, Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, AIX, Solaris, Apache web server. Python Developer Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Personal - Seattle, WA March 2013 to January 2015 • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Personal management, error/exception management etc.).  • developed SaaS (software as a service) ERP system for Logistics  • Involved in mobile application development on IOS and Android.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Used python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Web Services to get travel destination data and rates.  • Exposure in working for developing a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • In depth exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design  • Designed, automated the process of installation and configuration of secure DataStax Enterprise Cassandra using chef.  • Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Junit, Maven, and Spring.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Environment: Python, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Subversion, Adobe Flash, Apache, Phusion Passenger, Windows XP (development), Linux (hosted RedHat/Ubuntu), AIX, Solaris and VMWare. Python Developer San Jose, CA September 2012 to February 2013 • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Developing the classes for models file.  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, Python STL, Django, UI and web development.  • Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the code redundancy to the optimal level  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python 2.7, Java, Bash script, Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Involved in the development ORM Queries.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Involved in UI refactoring that involves extensive use of Ajax  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Exported Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium RC environment.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.JS.  • Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, AIX, Django 1.5, HTML5/CSS, CSS Bootstrap, Solaris and VMWare Pyramid, Zope, MySQL, MS SQL, T-SQL, Jasper Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Confidential -Chicago, Illinois, USA - Chicago, IL July 2010 to August 2012 • Worked extensively on Multi-threading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT  • Deployment and testing of the applications.  • Used HTML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of rail docs and have them running in the design team for project structure.  • Strong Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML5, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi threading functionality.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Environment: MySql, Git, RSpec, Selenium, Inactive, VMWare ,Linux, VMS, OS/400, Windows, AIX, Solaris and Python. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Operating Systems: Windows 95, 98, NT, 2000, Xp, Vista, Windows 7, 8 Linux, Unix, MicrosofT  Server 2003, Mac Os, Android, Windows Mobile, Mac Osx  ? Knowledge in HTML 4.02, HTML5, CSS, JS, XML, XHTML, Javascript, JQuery, Angular.JS, Knockout.JS,  Java, Ruby, AS 400, Mainframe, Python  ? Bugs Tracker Apps: Bugzilla, Firebug, Jira, HP QC, Testlodge, TFS  ? Basic Knowledge in Automation Tools: Selenium, Watir, Sikulli , docker , Jenkins  ? CMS: Kentico, Websphere, Teamsite, Stellent, Joomla  ? Knowledge in Datawarehouse tools such: Sybase, Informatica Power Center, DVO, SAS  ? Data Bases Knowledge: Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL,Sqlite3, MongoDB, Cassandra, SVN,