Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - PNC Bank, Pittsburg, PA • 5+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, C, Django, Django Rest Framework in various domains.  • Experienced with Object Oriented Programming, Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding and testing of enterprise applications.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in writing scripts using Gherkin Syntax in Behave framework in Python.  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL .PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked on refactoring the code (Struts, JSP and JavaScript) by restructuring it for better performance.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST and knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Hands on experience in SVN, GIT, JIRA and Bugzilla worked in SQL databases MS SQL, Apache Cassandra, Oracle and MongoDB.  • SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance (Bulk Binds, Materialized views, Inline views, Global Temporary Tables).  • Leveraging queueing architectures with Rabbit MQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Proficient in Unit testing/ Test-driven Development (TDD), Load Testing and Integration Testing.  • Experienced in using SVN, Eclipse, Pycharm, Pyscript, Spyder, JIRA and GIT.  • Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Written Python Code using Ansible Python API to Automate Cloud Deployment Process.  • Good knowledge in strategy and implementation of AWS technologies such as EC2, S3, and EBS.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Good written and communication skills. Poses capability to interact very closely with wide range of audience such as Engineers, Scientists, Health professionals, Scientists, Professors, Clients, and Vendors. Work Experience Python Developer PNC Bank, Pittsburg, PA October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON to design and develop the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of PyYAML libraries.  • Written Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 3.6/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, Java, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting Python Developer Verizon Wireless - Township of Warren, NJ February 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • For the development of the user interface of the website used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in developing views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Expertise in developing consumer-based features and applications with Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Modify the existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Have work knowledge on JIRA(Agile) for the bug tracking of the project.  • Worked on deployment on AWS EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage  • Developed Chef Cookbooks to install and configure Apache Tomcat, Jenkins and deployment automation.  • Used Django-celery with the help of RabbitMQ message broker for large processing.  • Experience with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka.  • Worked on Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations.  • Developed full stack Python web framework with an emphasis on simplicity, flexibility, and extensibility.  • Worked on AWS Cloud Platform and its features which includes EC2, S3, EBS  • Integrated Redis-Cache with Django Rest Framework for reading the data faster.  • Involved in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, and Implementation of the application.  • Implemented the application in LINUX environment and comfortable with all its commands.  • Developed Restful Microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Automated most of the daily task using python scripting.  Environment: Python, MySQL, Hive, JSON, RESTful, Pandas, Machine Learning, Version One, Linux, Shell Scripting, IBM Netezza, JavaScript, AngularJS, Toad Data Point(SQL), Putty(Linux), Informatica. Python Developer Lenovo - Morrisville, NC August 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software  Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django  • Used Salt Stack to configure and manage the infrastructure  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Responsible for handling the integration of database system.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based scheme.  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  • Developed and Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.  Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, HTML, CSS, NoSQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services. Python Developer PRIMUS Global Technologies Private Limited May 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash Tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations, data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON and CRUD scripts for API Integration,  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action Classes.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands.  • Led the development of parsers for handling JSON, XML responses and JAXB binding.  • Worked with JMS (Java Messaging Service) for asynchronous communication.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Built client pages using HTML, JSP, XML to interact with users and the business logic is implemented using Servlets and Java Beans.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Publish and Consume Contract First SOAP web services using spring and RESTful Web Services using Jersey.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Worked on JMS components for asynchronous messaging.  • Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading.  • Implemented code MVC2 Framework using JSP's JavaBeans and Servlets.  • Utilized Python libraries NumPy, Twisted and matplotlib.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery,  Environment: AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, JSP, Servlets, Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript jQuery, JavaScript, Shell Scripts. Skills DJANGO (5 years), HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), CSS (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Java  Technologies HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, Struts  Version Control Git, GitHub, SVN, CVS  Databases Oracle ,SQL ,PL/SQL ,MySQL ,PostgreSQL,DB2,MongoDB  IDE's/Development Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime Text, Net Beans  Web Services AWS, Restful Web Services, SOAP  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OS  Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  Servers Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat