Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Fox Interactive Berkeley, CA • Around 5+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  • Experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.    • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS 5, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.    • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.    • Experience in using Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, SVN for Version Controlling.    • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and Javascript, CSS 5, Bootstrap.    • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.    • Hands on working with Python latest versions 3.4.3 and 2.7.10,SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Axosoft, Amazon EC2/S3.    • Good experience in Python, Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework.    • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.    • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.    • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.    • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Angular JS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.    • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.    • Expertize in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL, multithreading, data structures, and design patterns.    • Well versed in writing unit test cases and selenium test cases.    • Understanding of Python best Practices (PEP-8).    • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.    • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.    • Extensively used UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.    • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL database.    • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js.    • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora)    • Worked on Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ.    • Experience with Jsp Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat. Work Experience Python Developer Fox Interactive - Los Angeles, CA January 2014 to Present Project: Development and Enhancement of Travelzoo, the premier travel reservation site.    Travelers can find their dream destinations and post their requirements and inquiries. Travel agents can post their promotions and can respond to the inquiries and interests of travelers. Features include memberships, destination search, payment system for travel agents membership renewal, newsletters, promotion campaigns, shopping cart.    Lead Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  • Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading.  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Persona management, error/exception management etc.).  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling. Python Developer Polaris Solutions - New York, NY May 2011 to December 2013 Project: Regulatory Reporting System  Worked in Derivatives and FX Back Office Technology for Regulatory Reporting of Foreign Exchange, Interest Rates, Credits and Equities OTC financial product transactions to national regulatory authorities such as US CFTC through DTCC (Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation).    Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on the Python based proprietary framework Quartz.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Implemented large scale data processing of trade and position level information, by using a custom built MapReduce engine.  • Implemented and consumed Task Schedulers for scheduling job priority while distributing data and map/reduce functions over Grid.  • Created time sensitive scripts to parse to large sets of serialized, unstructured data objects (30 Million), filtering and reducing data into functional reports.  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Created modules to transform incoming XML trade data into trade objects, parse trade data and create outbound FPML (Financial Products Markup Language) sent to DTCC repositories.  • Implemented concept of Dependency Acyclic Graph in existing Deal Model within Python classes for creating dependency over various deals objects across the Bank's systems.  • Implemented and used custom built query script to store, index and read large sets of Object data (like MongoDb)  • Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks inline with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Trained extensively in Agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum standups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with Product Owners. Python Developer Jefferies Group - Jersey City, NJ October 2010 to April 2011 Project- Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.    Responsibilities:  • Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI development.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python, MSQL.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Worked extensively on Multithreading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Deployment and testing of the applications.  • Used HTML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Worked wResponsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running ith the design team for project structure.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi threading functionality.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users Python Developer Capital One Bank - Richmond, VA May 2010 to September 2010 Project: Developed a web based application using python to automate the ATM cash management process.    Responsibilities:  • Worked alone on the project from gather requirement developing the entire application, with help from other analyst.  • Wrote python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Worked on a resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Install and Configure Linux with Apache, Oracle 8I and PHP (LAMP Project).  • Resolved several hidden bugs caused by complicated multithreading issues such as race conditions caused by asynchronous events.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL. Additional Information Skills:    Python Libraries Pandas, Numpy, UnitTest, JSON, CSV, XLS  Python Framework Django, Pandas, Pyramid, Flask, Ansible, Bottle, Salt  Source version Control GITHUB, SVN, Emacs  Database Sqlite3, MongoDB, SQL, Cassandra, Oracle 8i  Operating System Unix, Microsoft Windows 7, XP  Web Technologies AngularJS, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, CSS 5 and XML  Software Development Lifecycle Agile Methodology, Scrum Framework