Software Engineer (ETW) Software Engineer (ETW) Software Engineer Boston, MA Software engineer with specialization in artificial intelligence and machine learning. Dependable team player with experience in industrial and research projects. Enthusiastic about Java technologies, Python, Relational Databases, and Data Mining projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer (ETW) Nike / Converse Technology - Boston, MA May 2019 to September 2019 Designed and developed a scalable data pipeline in Java with decoupled data  processing modules as a data integration solution for untracked business data to the system.  - Participated in daily stand-up meetings as a scrum team member, and communications with business users and PTC support engineers.  - Conducted software analysis and debugging for FlexPLM and Windchill system, and resolved the thread synchronization and system security issues.  - Utilized the object-oriented programming best practices, maintained standard coding  conventions, provided software documentation in addition to reports from database. Software Developer Booosh Mobile Technologies - Houston, TX February 2019 to April 2019 - Remote Python developer with effective online communications with team members.  - Designed relational Databases with respect to cryptography, and developed an end- to-end encrypted messaging system with routing in multi-node servers. Full-stack Python developer Qommazeh.com - Tehran, IR July 2018 to September 2018 Tehran, Iran.  - Back-end developer and utilized Django framework and MySQL database.  - Designed and implemented an API based on the Django rest framework.  - Worked remotely with the front-end developer team, facilitating Git version-control  system. Full-stack Java developer chashtino.com - Tehran, IR October 2017 to June 2018 Tehran, Iran.  - Designed and implemented the Chashtino e-commerce web application based on the Java Spring MVC framework with the service layer, meeting the minimum server  hardware requirements.  - Implemented features including but not limited to: content, product and user  management capabilities, promotion and discount code, shopping cart system, phone  number authentication and web push notification.  - Designed and normalized the database and provided backup and reporting tools for the manager in admin dashboard. Software Engineer, 300-hour Internship Iran Water Resource Management Co - Tehran, IR June 2016 to August 2016 Iran.  - Provided Data Flow Diagrams as a member of the technical team responsible for the due migration and upgrade of the platforms and information systems in "Electronic  State Project" of the organization.  - Designed Entity-Relationship Models for the relational databases and HTML forms  with data validation. Education Bachelor's in Bachelor’s Degree in the field of Computer Engineering – Software University of Tehran - Tehran, IR Skills Django, Git, Html, Javascript, Json, Python, Tensorflow, Database, Database design, Jdbc, Mysql, Relational database, Sql, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Java technologies, Spring, jquery, Android Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  A summary of technologies and techniques acquired skill in when working on the  projects listed in this document and university projects:  Scientific programming tools: Scipy ecosystem, Seaborn, Scikit-Learn, TensorFlow*,  IPhyton notebook interface, Matlab environment.  Java Technologies: Java 8, IntelliJ IDEA, Spring framework (DI), Spring web MVC,  Spring security, Hibernate, JDBC, Jsoup, Maven, RxJava (Reactive programming),  Apache Tomcat 7 server, Android SDK.  Python: Django web framework, metaprogramming and decorators, multi-threading,  encapsulation, web crawling.  Databases: Relational database design, database security* and backup, database  normalization, MySQL, SQL, DataGrip.  Server-side: Vim and tmux, Unix-like Systems (Ubuntu, MacOS, CentOS*), shell  programming*, Apache HTTP Server, Nginx*, Windows server 2008 and 2012, System  monitoring and backups.  Others: FlexPLM, Windchill, PTC, AI, data mining, feature selection, probability and  Statistics, version control (Git workflow), Javascript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Ajax, JSON,  RESTful, MVC, MVP, networking*, socket programming, Wireshark, Sketchup*.    * Familiar or worked with, otherwise keywords indicate high expertise.