Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Texas City, TX Around 6+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django. To serve the organization with the best of my technical skills and abilities by utilizing my educational and professional knowledge and competencies acquired by me in my academic career and professional experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer CLOUD CLEARWATER February 2015 to Present • Experience in developing as a Web/Application Developer, server-side programming and coding with analytical programming using Python Django, C++.  • Developing MVC web-based applications using Python web frameworks like Django, Pyramid, Flask and Web2Py, Singleton.  • Experience in developing Python OpenStack API'S along with Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Expertise on Data bases such as MYSQL, Oracle, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL and NOSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in Python modules like numpy, regular expressions, collections, dates & times and OS modules.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, FLASK, XML, CSS, HTML.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Used pylint as to catch the bugs before the deployment.  • Good experience in PL/SQL programming including complex SQL queries using stored procedures and Triggers in Oracle, SQL Server using TOAD and Query Manager Performed DevOps for Linux Mac and Windows platforms.  • Gained good working experience on DevOps Environment by working on various technologies/applications like Ansible, Chef, GIT, SVN, Jenkins, Docker.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed Restful API's integrating web exe with Django and Python implementations with data exchange through JSON and XML formats.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing product specifications, technical specifications, test plans and quality analysis.  • Designed Puppet Modules to manage configurations and automate installation process and developed automation scripting in Python using Puppet to deploy and manage Java applications across Linux servers.  • Experience in Cloud computing window Azure (AWS) • Experience in maintaining all the tools like Bamboo, Bit Bucket, Confluence, JIRA, and GIT.  • Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application. Server.  • Good experience in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR, S3 and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  • Good experience with Cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, cloud front distribution, databases, security groups and application configuration • Good Experience in C PowerShell Scripting (Bash) and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NOSQL databases like MongoDB by installing and configuring various packages in Python (Teradata, MySQL dB, MySQL connector, Pymongo and SQL Alchemy) • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like DB2 and MySQL.  • Experience in administering and supporting the CM tools including Subversion and CVS on UNIX environments.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Good idea using debugging Python Developer eBay Inc February 2014 to February 2015 • Worked on different Java script libraries like jQuery, Underscorejs, Requirejs, knockoutjs.  • Working knowledge of Qunit and Jasmine Java script unit testing frameworks.  • Worked on writing grunt tasks for build scripts, minified and bundled the Java script code.  • Developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using Java script, JSP, HTML /DHTML, DOM, XHTML, jQuery, CSS, and Ajax.  • Experience in Object Oriented Java script and use of design patterns like module, revealing module and singleton pattern.  • Hands-on experience in Amazon AWS Cloud Administration which includes services like EC2, IAM, VPC, S3. Python Developer CRANE & JENKINS February 2012 to February 2014 • API testing using Postman and REST API's automation.  • Strong in CodeIgniter framework.  • Quick learner with strong technical and analytical skills.  • Developing and maintaining PHP Web Application.  • Customization, modification and Bug fixes.  • Continuously refactor applications to ensure high-quality design • Experience in working with Web Services (REST) • Develop UIs with JSP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS • Experience in developing machine learning packages and algorithms with R & Python.  • Strong knowledge of data structure, modelling, replication and distributed data/object relational database mapping.  • Partition of the data into training and testing set and implementing model on new dataset to find the accuracy of the model.  • Implemented machine learning models like linear regression, logistic regression, clustering, word cloud etc.  • Implemented clustering of structured data using k-means algorithm.  • Development of proprietary machine learning technologies that drive adaptive, personalized recommendation services, predictive analytics capabilities, data extraction scripts, data visualizations.  • Strong understanding of statistics and applications as well as strong working knowledge of machine learning techniques, including hands-on experience with corresponding software libraries and frameworks.  • Formal knowledge with natural language processing, text mining and machine learning algorithm implementation.  • Work on a wide variety of problems in search/information retrieval, natural language processing, unsupervised and supervised learning problems and data enrichment.  • Knowledge of practical applications of artificial intelligence (AI) • Programming knowledge specifically techniques for mining large amounts of unstructured data, text analytics and natural language processing.  • Managed the Cloud computing & Storage team, Systems Administration team and Messaging (Exchange & Skype) team. This included 25 onsite and remote employees with Team Managers, Cloud computing & Storage Administrators, System Administrators and Exchange/Skype Administrators. Python Developer Cyber Data Tech Inc February 2011 to February 2012 • Storage Engine Upgrade from Mmapv1 to Wired Tiger • Config Servers Upgrade from SCCC to CSRS (Config Servers to Replica Sets) • MongoDB Version Upgrades • MongoDB Enterprise to Community Edition - Downgrade • MongoDB and Mongos Instances Run as a Service where start, stop and restart commands in place - In Binary Installation • Monitoring and Log Rotate Scripts - UNIX bash scripting • Install and maintain MongoDB.  • Good exposure to CRUD, JSON.  • MongoDB cluster administration and management • Deploy replica set (with and without arbiter) • Deploy sharded environment (with and without replica set) i.e. MongoDB scaling across data centers.  • Good understanding of storage engine (MMAPV1 and Wired Tiger) • Creating and managing of user management tasks.  • Expertise in managing sharded cluster and replica set members.  • Upgrading MongoDB database while retaining the MMAPV1 storage engine as per application requirement.  • Troubleshooting and Solving operation problems and participate in an on-call rotation • Expertise in upgrading MongoDB database in rolling fashion with wired tiger storage engine. Education MASTER OF SCIENCE in INFORMATION SYSTEMS Texas A&M University January 2009 to August 2011 BACHELOR OF ENGINEERING in INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Sant Gadge Baba Amravati University Amravati - Amravati, Maharashtra January 2005 to January 2009 Skills PYTHON (8 years), DATABASE (7 years), WEB SERVICES (6 years), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (5 years), EC2 (5 years), MySQL, Javascript, PHP Additional Information Skills  • Languages: Python, C#, Java  • Frameworks: Django, Pyramid, Turbogears, web2py, Microframeworks, Bottle, Cherrypy, Sanic.  • Databases: MYSQL, Oracle, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL and NOSQL  • Web Services: JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RS, REST, Jersey, SOA, XML, JSON, MongoDB  • Web / App Servers: Twisted, Tornado, cherrypy  • Cloud Computing: Amazon EC2, ELB, EBS, S3, Glacier, IAM, VPC, RDS, Cloud Watch, SNS, Route53,  • Big Data: Map Reduce Algorithms, Hadoop, Spark, Hive, Cloudera, Oracle Database SQL