Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Octobot Austin, TX • Having 7+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies. Solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Django.  • Extensive experience in Requirement Analysis, Application Design & Development and profound knowledge on SDLC using agile and V-model.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experience in using third party tools like Telerik, DevExpress and kendo Controls.  • Experience with containerizing applications using Docker and Vagrant.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, NumPy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas dataframe, networkX, urllib2, Pychart, Highcharts) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Expertise in developing web-based applications using libraries and frameworks like Angular JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ruby on Rails, Knockout.js, Node Js, Backbone.js, React JS, D3 JS and Require JS.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  • Worked extensively on Big Data analytical models developed in Python.  • Extensive use of Object-Oriented design methodology and Agile in software development.  • Extensive experience in Building web applications using Kendo UI widgets, jQuery, Angular JS.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, Postgre SQL and MySQL databases.  • Experience on Web development using HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON by following W3C standards.  • Extensive development experience in Java, Struts, JSPs, Servlets, taglibs, Hibernate, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, SQL, XML and JSON.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Octobot April 2015 to Present Python Developer LetsNurture August 2011 to May 2015 Responsibilities: • Designed, developed, coded and worked in penetration testing in customized DOL-AWS GovCloud Node.js Security Monitoring of VPC Zones using AWS - Lambda to load customized Spark-Scala GraphX Application • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language for the Web application.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Designed, developed, coded, worked in penetration testing and implemented a concurrent - multi-parallel - event oriented-processing - AKKA Actor System and Actors; to consume Scala Spark-SQL Rules which aggregated data to produce Quality Performance Reports (QPR) on Fiscal projections against Apprentice and Intern Job data.  • Installed and configured Hadoop MapReduce, HDFS, Developed multiple MapReduce jobs in java for data cleaning and preprocessing.  • Installed and configured Pig and written PigLatin scripts.  • Extensively involved in Installation and configuration of Cloudera's distribution • Developed User Interfaces using JSF (Primefaces), AngularJS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery and CSS.  • Hadoop, Namenode, Job Tracker, Task Trackers and Data Nodes • Designed and led big data algorithms using Hadoop and Java to improve forecasting and used HiveQL to generate reports.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS for effective design of Web pages • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Created Spring Batches for running batch jobs and documented the use of Spring Batch.  • Created reusable UI components using React.js • Involved in developing the Angular JS MVC framework for the Single Page Application development.  • Developed server-side RESTful services and called them from angular controllers.  • Utilized various interactive plugins, widgets to design UI/ UX.  • Worked on Photoshop illustrator and all the adobe technologies.  • Used Spring JDBC template for persistence with data base.  • Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web, and client-server environments including Java • Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE), Enterprise Java Bean (EJB), Java Server Pages (JSP), Java • Servlets (including JNDI), Struts, and Java database Connectivity (JDBC) technologies.  • Fluid understanding of multiple programming languages, including C#, C, C++, JavaScript, HTML, and XML.  • Re-designed and transformed menu backend service to a containerized distributed service.  • Overhauled codebase to increase fault tolerance, scalability, and performance • Worked in Apache CGI, Cherrypy, python and Bash programming on Red Hat virtual machines to maintain and automate Splunk server deployments and other in-house IT operations.  • Designed logic for semantic procedures and aggregate tables using standard SQL/PLSQL.  • Developed Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and performed-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongorestore.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization as well as wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD. Python Developer LetsNurture August 2011 to May 2015 Responsibilities: • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements, developed High level design and Detail design documents.  • Developed UI using HTML, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery and jQueryUI.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Developed rich UI web application using JavaScript libraries like jQueryUI, DataGrid, jscolor, and highcharts.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Associated with Restful API's to gather network traffic data from Servers.  • Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.  • Writing REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework.  • Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  • Correspondingly involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Involvement in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  • Assisted the development team in sending the correct data via query strings using PostgreSQL as the back-end for storing data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Responsible for configuring NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB to for increasing compatibility with Django.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Good experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Generated Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN. Python Developer LetsNurture August 2011 to May 2015 Responsibilities: • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile) • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Worked in NoSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki and backup the database.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python and portlet. Skills HTML (7 years), jQuery (7 years), JSON (7 years), Python (7 years), testing (7 years) Additional Information SKILLS    • IDE: NetBeans, Spyder, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, Atom and Sublime Text.  • Databases: Oracle, My SQL, PostgreSQL, Apache Cassandra  • Framework: Django, PyJamas, Flask, Jython, Pyramid, CherryPy  • Programming Languages: Python 2.5-2.7/3.4-3.6, C, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Front-end: Angular, jQuery, Ajax, ExtJS, Node JS, React JS, JSON, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML  • Reporting Tools: Workday Report Writer, WD Studio Report Designer, SQR, Crystal Reports, JIRA  • Application servers: Apache Tomcat, JBoss  • Testing Tools: PyTest, Testify, Selenium, Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Analytical Tool: JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL  • Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  • Operating System: Windows 98/2000/XP/7/8/10, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu, and MacOS.  • Version Control Tools: MVC, SVN, CVS, Git, GitHub.  • Document Processing: MS Office Suite  • Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS