Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - T-Mobile Austin, TX • 6+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML5/CSS3, AngularJS, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTM  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python C, C++.  • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience with JSP Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat. Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule. Created and maintained effective budgets.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm.  • Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services and also worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Wrote Python Code using Ansible Python API to Automate Cloud Deployment Process and profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA and Bugzilla worked in SQL databases MS SQL, Apache Cassandra, Oracle and MongoDB.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, Postgre SQL and MySQL databases.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS) and have knowledge about object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer T-Mobile - Austin, TX March 2017 to Present • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used Query and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Thoroughly used Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, Pandas data frame, Matplotlib, python-twitter, urllib2.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Implemented MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI and used JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django's view controller and templating language to create.  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM process including Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Daily Standups, Code review, Gant Chart.  • Leveraging queueing architectures with Rabbit MQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server-side applications Django, Flask, WebPy, BottlePy and Pyramid. PYTHON DEVELOPER AT&T - Middle Town, NJ March 2016 to February 2017 • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria, created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs. Used Connect SOAP rule to fetch the Webservices and used SOAP UI to test the external service.  • Worked with Relational DB (RDBMD) like SQLite, MYSQL Workbench, PostgreSQL and No-SQL database MongoDB for database connectivity.  • Involved in project management and took scrum meetings and used JIRA for project tacking and Involved in testing the application.  • Write scripts using python modules and its libraries to develop programs that improve processing of access requests  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access and added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design. Python Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN January 2014 to February 2016 • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services such as EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, Elastic Load Balancer.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python -based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy, and PostgreSQL.  • Strong knowledge of all phases of SDLC and Strong working knowledge of Software testing (Functional Testing, Regression Testing, Load Testing).  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser. Python Developer JPMC - Brooklyn, NY June 2012 to December 2013 • Developed Web Applications based on MVC architecture using Python, Django, Flask.  • Experience in working with different python packages like Pandas, BeautifulSoup.  • Worked on with REST and SOAP Web Services handling XML and JSON data and worked with the Networking protocols like TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS and involved in working with Issue tracking tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Worked on Pandas to import the data, Sort and plot the statistical data using histograms.  • Worked on Restful API's to access the third-party data for the internal analysis and statistical representation of that data.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Coding application using Python, Django in End-to-End Web application development using MVC architecture while front-end is built on CSS and HTML.  • Worked on writing unit testing code using PyTest and integrated the test code with the build process.  • Worked on Integrated Development Environments (IDE's) like PyCharm and Sublime text and was involved in scrum meetings of this project. Education Bachelor's Skills Operating systems Windows, Linux Ubuntu, UNIX. Languages Java, C, C++, Python 3.3/2.7/2.4,Perl, Ruby. Scripting languages CSS, Java Script, JQuery, Shell Scripting. Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, numpy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2. Analytics Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL,MVC3. Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON. Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, RESTful web services. Databases Oracle, My SQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB, Postgre. IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Toad, Sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm. Revision Controlling Systems CVS, Github. Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum MS office tools Microsoft Excel (Super user), Microsoft word, Microsoft PowerPoint, PPTPlex (6 years)