Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Cary, NC • Over 3 years of experience in Software Development   • Experienced in database design, development, data migration and maintenance and tuning  • Experienced with architecting and developing systems, integration and deployment of Windows, and Linux platforms.  • Developed web application back-end components and provided support to front-end developers.  • Implemented Java applications to ensured data security & protection  • Experienced in interacting with Business Analysts, UAT Users, and developers.  • Managed windows servers which included Active Directory maintenance and support  • Performed the Root Cause Analysis for the Post production and UAT Defects.  • Participated in design review meetings to understand technical and functional systems overview.  • Excellent knowledge of JavaScript SSO Ajax and JPA  • Strong technical, analytical skills, proven success in meeting or exceeding customer needs as an  individual contributor as well as a team member.  • A team player with strong work ethic, positive attitude and the ability to make the best use of individual  resources   • Strong communication skills to work with various user groups and technical teams Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Cognizant - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh June 2012 to May 2015 • Created user stories and resolved development issues.  • Conducted investigation and analysis of system malfunctions.  • Designed and developed software components and apps.  • Managed and executed processes for automation of software releases.  • Participated in understanding of configuration management and technical products.  • Assisted in deployment of project artifacts and test plans.  • Supported software acceptance procedures in coordination with end users.  • Programmed application code and developed risk calculation apps.  • Provided assistance during software releases and code reviews.  • Designed and developed apps for mobile systems with Play technologies.  • Prepared application analysis documentation and formulated architecture specifications.  • Developed backend application components and automated testing plans.  • Installed and tested applications to detect software bugs and limitations.  • Created Junit cases and evaluated backend service functionality.  • Assisted in designing and execution of ad hoc pricing tools.  • Supported HFT infrastructure and server-side software.  Environment: Python, Java, JavaScript, SSO, Ajax and JPA, JQuery, SQL HTM, XHTML, CSS. Education Masters of Science in Computer Information Systems California University of Management & Sciences 2016 Additional Information Skills  C, C++, PHP, Java script, Jquery, Python, Eclipse, Clear Quest, Flash Builder, Oracle, DB2, Apache, Tomcat, SQL, HTML, MVC2, Game Engines, Unity, Maya, Blender, Illustrator, Java IDEs.