Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - US Bank Cincinnati, OH Around 6 years of experience in analytical programming software development and design, testing of web based and client server multi-tier applications using Python, Django and Backend Technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer US Bank - Cincinnati, OH January 2018 to Present US Bank is the fifth largest Bank in the Country. It has core business include Consumer & Business Banking, Corporate & Commercial Banking, Payment Services and Wealth Management & Investment Services. The Application is Loan approval and Mortgage management, which saves borrower's mortgage documents such as Home and other property papers.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing web applications using Django Framework to implement the model view template architecture. The base of the project has been developed using Django, Python and MySQL.  • Created REST APIs using Django Rest Framework to send data to user interface.  • Composed python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  • Used Django ORM to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files.  • Used Angular and REST calls for sending JSON data objects between frontend and backend.  • Used JIRA for project monitoring, creating use cases and bug tracking.  • Experience with Unit testing/Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Version control for the project was implemented using GIT.  • Worked in UNIX/LINUX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Followed Agile development and consistently delivered new features on time during sprints. Python Developer Warner Bros - Burbank, CA September 2016 to December 2017 Developed Inventory Management System as they have various properties such as Lights, Chair hardware, doors, elevators, mirrors, office furniture and other electronics items. Developed a centralized system where we can check current inventory, invoices and buy more when needed.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Experience with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Designed and developed data management system using MongoDB.  • Writing modules in Python to connect to MongoDB with PyMongo and doing CRUD operations with MongoDB.  • Generate Django Forms and Models to record and validate data of new projects.  • Communicating and sharing ideas with other team developers using Slack.  • Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements and specifications.  • Design and implement elegant and scalable REST APIs using Django Rest Framework.  • Used Git as version control system for the application.  • Integrated with MongoDB for retrieving the data in the form of JSON using AJAX.  • Used Unit testing for ticket assignment and bug tracking.  • Implemented project using Agile Scrum methodology. Involved in daily stand up meetings. Python Developer 7-Eleven - Dallas, TX March 2015 to August 2016 Developed order tracking and invoice management application using Python and Django which takes and deliver the orders from warehouse to the stores of particular area and calculate the number of invoices of any store so that it can predict the rush in such areas.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the app using Django framework and web technologies such as HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Used Django Forms to create work orders and inventory entries. Used Django Models for database creation and CRUD operations. Used Views for backend processing and display through templates.  • Deployed application on Amazon Web Services using EC2.  • Provided bi-weekly work reports to the supervisor and participated in daily SCRUM meetings.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Worked with MySQL database and handled its connection with application using Django ORM.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications and involved in fine tuning of existing processes followed advance patterns and methodologies. Python Developer 3D Web Window January 2013 to February 2015 3D Web Window is leading Service provider of Domain Registration Service, Graphic Designing Service, Website Designing Service etc. The Application is Employee Management Software using Python and Django which keep all the information of employees are working, their designation, clock in, clock out time etc.  Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Experience with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Designed and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for integration and unit testing.  • Experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production. Education Bachelor's Skills Django (6 years), JSON (4 years), Python (6 years), REST (4 years), Web services (5 years) Additional Information • Experienced in developing MVT architecture-based applications using Django, Flask frameworks.  • Experienced with web-based technologies such as HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Bootstrap and AJAX.  • Strong experience in developing software in Python using libraries like Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Pickle, Pandas, urllib2 to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  • Design and Developed Web Services using Python Django and Flask Frameworks.  • Familiar with Django's ORM library.  • Expert at parsing, scripting, logging, migrating data and debugging.  • Experienced in working with various Development tools like PyCharm, Sublime Text, Eclipse, NetBeans and Atom.  • Experienced with NoSQL databases such as MongoDB.  • Understanding of Relational databases such as PostgreSQL, MySQL.  • Familiarity with development practices such as code reviews and unit testing using Unit Test.  • Experience with Cloud Services like Amazon AWS, EC2, S3  • Experience working with version control tools such as Git and SVN.  • Experience in developing Web Services (SOAP, Restful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment  • Experience in Linux Bash Scripting and PEP guidelines in python.  • Sound experience in Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Interacting with supervisors, artists, system administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Scripting Languages Python  Programming Languages Python, C, C++, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SQL  Database & Servers SQLite3, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Web Frameworks Django, FLASK  Web Technologies JSON, XML, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, AJAX  Web Services REST, SOAP, AWS  Development/Application Tools PyCharm, Sublime Text, Eclipse, NetBeans and Atom.  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Version Controls Git, SVN  Bug Tracking Tool JIRA