Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Kroger Blue Ash, OH • 7+ years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, Flask, Pyramid and client - server technologies based applications, RESTful services, AWS, C, C++, JAVA and SQL.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle Process across various workflows (Requirement study, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance) in Web & Client/Server application development.  • Extensive experience in developing web applications using Python, Django, Flask, Pyramid, Sanic frameworks. worked with several python libraries including Beautiful soup, Twisted, NumPy, matplotlib, SciPy, PyQt, Scapy, SQL Alchemy, Boto ,logging, Nose, Blaze, Hug.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2and spring web application frameworks, with good understanding of Django ORM and SQLAlchemy.  • Hands-on experience with industry-standard IDEs like PyCharm, Sublime, Emacs, Eclipse, NetBeans, Intellij, TOAD.  • Extensive experience in developing applications by implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Bootstrap, PHP, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, D3.js, and various Java/J2EEtechnologies.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, Oracle RDBMS, SQL Server, Unix and Linux.  • Good knowledge of TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSH and SSL protocols.  • Experience working with Docker components like creating Docker images compose Docker registry and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and configurations.  • Expert at version control systems like Git, SVN and CVS, Migrated repos from svn to Github.  • Experienced in requirement gathering, use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2, MySQL and MSSQL Server.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, MongoDB, Cassandra and SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications, able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Used Request library and Json to interact with Rest services and in interacting with Database.  • Experience in GoLang concepts like Slices, Maps, Structs, Interfaces, Go routines and Channels.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with Mod python.  • Experienced in Unit testing, System Integration testing (SIT), User acceptance testing (UAT), Functional testing.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks like Pyjamas, Jython, PyQT.  • Experience with source code testing frameworks like JUnit, PyUnit.  • Good experience in working with Web services like Amazon AWS EC2, S3, SES, ELB, EBS.  • Strong knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms, Object Oriented Analysis, machine learning and software design patterns.  • Good understanding of Garbage collector interface implemented it with CPython.  • Thorough knowledge of Cand C++ languages including STL, threads, templates, dynamic polymorphism and other OO concepts.  • Worked closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool).  • Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP, REST web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Good knowledge in working with Web/application server- Apache Tomcat, Tornado, CherryPy, Chaussette, Rocket.  • Experienced in developing API services Python/Tornado while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Attentive to cyber security and data protection. Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices  • Knowledge of deployment tools using Jenkins, Pylint, Cppcheck and Coverity.  • Experience in Agile development processes ensuring rapid and highquality software delivery  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Kroger - Blue Ash, OH September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Gathering requirements and translating the business details into Technical design  • Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Gulp as a task/build runner for development. Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and Bootstrap,  • Utilized Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, Twisted, PyQT, Web2py, Pygal, Plot.ly.  • Designed RESTful Webservices using FLASK, with emphasis on improved Security for the service using FLASK-HTTP Auth with HTTPS. Also utilized Hug libraries to develop HTTP REST API's to provide validations and used CherryPy framework to model and bind HTTP.  • Worked with Boto3 as interface for AWS API and TensorFlow to make numerical computations using data flow graphs.  • Developed various API's for Django applications using Django-tastypie.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 instance to deploy Django project into AWS. Configured continuous integration with Jenkins on Amazon EC2.  • Implemented SQL Alchemyas ORM mapping tool for complete access and Wrote SQL queries and maintained PostgreSQL RDBMS in the local development environment.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas API ecosystem to analyze the different segments of customers based on Location.  • Experience in creating Docker containers leveraging existing Linux Containers and AMI's in addition to creating Docker containers from scratch.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and Beautiful SOAP (b4)in extracting the Data during development phase and perform unit testing.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Creating RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Fixed bugs, providing production support, enhanced applications by improving code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Collaborated within a team using an agile development workflow and widely-accepted collaboration practices using Git.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like raceroute, SMTPmail server and web serverUsing Python.  • Used standard Python modules likecsv,robotparser, itertools, pickleto ensure privacy of sensitive data.  • Implemented Garbage collection with CPython to enhance the performance, by garbage collecting the older generated objects.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to ApacheCassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, DevCentre, DatastaxOpscenter.  • Written test cases using PyUnit and Selenium Automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  • Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration on Amazon EC2.  • Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.  • Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7, CherryPy, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, RESTful webservice, MongoDB, MySQL, SQLite, Cassandra, Docker, AWS (EC2, S3), PyUnit, Karma, Jenkins, Selenium Automation Testing. Python Developer Bank of Tucson - Tucson, AZ October 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript and Strong Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db. package. Used the Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Exploring with the Spark improving the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, Pair RDD's, Spark YARN.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Involved in converting Cassandra/Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD's in Scala and Python.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Migration of Hive driven complex workflows in to Spark Data frame and Performance optimization Python Developer Cigna Healthcare - Denver, CO September 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities  • Involved in the project life cycle including design, development and implementation and verification and validation  • Developed the application front end using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Django framework.  • Extensively utilized Python frameworks like Django, Flask, Sanic, PyUnit and libraries like matplotlib.  • Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frame works.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts, matplotlib for data visualization of sales, tracking progress, identifying trends.  • Developed data-accessible web applications for employee accesses using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Django.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library (Tweepy), Used JSON to store the twitter data which was further represented using matplotlib visualization and generated graphical reports for business decision using matplotlib library.  • Participate in the design, build and deployment of NoSQL implementations like MongoDB.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Integrated to Google Cloud platform for large scale computing workloads.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, also conducted meetings among Team.  • Developed server based web traffic using RESTful API's statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Wrote PL/SQL views, Stored Procedures, database triggers & Packages.  • Implemented table sorting feature on the webpages regardless of the type of data types with the use of JavaScript.  • Enhanced by adding Python XML SOAP request/response handlers to add accounts, modify trades and security updates.  • Recording of Scripts Web Services HTML using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods.  • Worked with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/10i and MySQL databases to query and read data.  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  • Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Implemented continuous integration using Jenkins and involved in the deployment of application with Ansible automation engine.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI testing using Pytest and web application testing using Selenium Python bindings.  • Designed many UML diagrams in Magic Draw for generating C++ code on the fly.  • Used Embedded Coder for translating models into model source code and executable in QNX Real Time Operating System (RTOS) single-tasking mode.  • Writing the assembly language program and debugging.  • Developed applications in QT creator.  • Conversion of the analog to a digital voltmeter with the help assembly language and plc programming.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Debugged and Tested Android app using Charles debugging session as man-in-middle proxy and monitored traffic flow through the devices. logged user stories and acceptance criteria in JIRA for features by evaluating output requirements and formats.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions. Python Developer Progressive Insurance - Cleveland, OH September 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Used Python scripts to generate various reports like transaction history, OATS, user privileges, limit rules and commission schedule reports.  • Built and maintained code libraries to support analytics using NumPy and SciPy. Used Pygal and plot.ly for visualization of the data retrieved using Scrapy.  • Worked on parsing of JSON data to be used in the project received by API calls using Python Request library.  • Used Blaze Ecosystem, SQL Alchemy to operate across various databases.  • Worked with Scrapy for web scraping to extract structured data from website to analyze the specific data of a website and work on it.  • Used Ansible for automated package deployment and server configuration.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml/etree libraries.  • Designed the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, AJAX, Bootstrap, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application using Python, mainly using Active Records. Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Used SVN, CVS as version control for existing system.  • Creating and modifying web services and stored procedures to implement new requirements using Python. Exposing services as RESTful services in JSON format for Admin UI which is developed using Django.  • Installation, configuration and administration of Virtual Box and VMware virtual machine for RHEL, Ubuntu Linux servers.  • Extensively used XML and RESTful Web Services to retrieve and send data from different applications.  • Created SQL Loader scripts to load data into the temporary staging tables.  • Developed DOM-based interactive directory structure diagram with dynamically expandable directory trees.  • Used Robot framework for test Automation integrated with Jenkins.  • Used JIRA maintain system protocols by writing and updating procedures and business case requirements, functional requirement specifications documents  • Implemented unit testing using PyUnit, and tested several RESTful services using SOAP UI.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all commands.