Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Kroger Blue Ash, OH ? 8 years of experience in IT industry involving Project analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance and documentation.  ? Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) and experience in Agile Software Methodology.  ? Extensive knowledge in Python, Core Java, MySQL, XSL, Oracle, UNIX and Linux.  ? I understand and experienced with the following; Pyramid, Django, Angular Js, Key Value Stores, Linux.  ? Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and Core Java.  ? Experience in Database modelling with SQL, MySQL and Oracle.  ? Expertise in usage of Django Framework for developing web applications.  ? Good knowledge in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages MySQL- Python.  ? Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  ? Good experience in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP.  ? Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance  ? Testing (UAT).  ? Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  ? Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results.  ? Experience in testing frameworks like Behave.  ? Experience in Web Application Development, hands on experience of Python/Django, Flask, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and JSON/AJAX.  ? Designed the UI using HTML5, Angular JS, JQuery and CSS. At client end, I use ANGULARJS framework, HTML5 and CSS3 with third party libraries.  ? Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  ? Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude  ? Authorized to work in United States for any employer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Kroger - Blue Ash, OH July 2017 to Present Description: Kroger is recognized as a leader in innovation across the retail industry. From pioneering the concept of designer partnerships to consistently being best in class in store design, Target remains focused on not only meeting, but exceeding, its guests' needs.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis and developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  ? Working in team of developers to build and deploy Flask, Linux, and AWS.  ? Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  ? Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit, Selenium and Rational Function Tester.  ? Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  ? Used ANT to build the application and deploy.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Utilized GIT for version-control and for tracking changes in source code during software development.  ? Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  ? Worked on Angular JS to augment browser applications with MVC capability    Environment: Python, Django, Angular, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML/XHTML, XML, MySQL server, GIT, Reports, RESTful, Linux, ANT. Python Developer Tracfone - Medley, FL November 2015 to July 2017 Description: The Tracfone ECDW program is to source data from various applications to the Enterprise Data Warehouse (ECDW) to support their Business in joining to other enterprise data and providing the current application clients with enterprise reporting (via EDW data and BI/DW CIS Business Objects universe). Build and configure the complete application environment on Linux.  Responsibilities:  ? Using Python automated manual process of archiving table data from Oracle database into CSV files and loading the extracted data into RainStor Distributed database.  ? Developed Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  ? Interacting with business to understand the requirement, developing and supporting it from SIT, UAT to PROD.  ? Developed SQL queries for report generations.  ? Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  ? Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  ? Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  ? Worked in an agile development environment and used GitHub for version control.  ? Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  ? Developed scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents  ? Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Good at Object oriented programming concepts Ex: Multi-Threading, Exception handling and collections.  ? Improved the maintainability of the project by implementing and improving Exception Handling, Collection and performance tuning Python apps, performance testing and analysis  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers and tables.  ? Developed unit test/regression test using PyUnit framework for working/new code.  ? Used Jenkins for continuous integration/continuous deployment  ? Ensured bug less code by using JIRA for issue tracking and maintained scalability of the web applications which include code & database optimization, server performance  ? Involved in merging the code into different stages like Development to System Testing, UAT, Staging and Production using Sub Version Controlling (SVN) tool  ? Involved in entire SDLC process like agile.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  Environment: Python, Django, SMTP, AWS, OpenStack, MySQL, PyUnit, Agile methodology, Jira, SOAP, REST API, XML, VBScripts, JavaScript, PyCharm Python Developer CoMakeIT - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  ? Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  ? Designed the front end of the application using Python.  ? Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  ? Developed the front-end featuring rich web interface using HTML5, CSS3, and Java Script and used JQuery framework for UI centric AJAX behaviour.  ? Developed server side application and server side validations using Django framework.  ? Performed validations for input fields making use of mainly Active Records.  ? Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib  ? Analysis and Design of application.  ? Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  ? Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.4, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Perl, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Python Developer Ebix Technologies Pvt Ltd Software - Pune, Maharashtra May 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  ? Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  ? Created database using oracle, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into Oracle database.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to Oracle with complete data integrity.  ? Used and customized apache server for checking our developed project.  ? Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  ? Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing were performed.  ? Designed, implemented, validate and Tested custom scripts  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.9, Flask, HTML5, XML, Oracle, CSS, Embedded SQL, Eclipse, Git, Linux, JIRA Education Bachelor's Skills Django, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap