Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CVS Health Providence, RI • Over 6+ years of IT experience in design, development, testing, maintenance and documentation of Enterprise applications in Python, Java, MYSQL, ORACLE, and UNIX and LINUX.  • Experienced in Python based MVC frameworks - Django, Flask.  • Experienced in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, and Java.  • Experienced in Python for creating scalable and robust applications along with other technologies (Angular, and Node JS).  • Proficient in implementing MVC architecture using Django for web based applications in OOP concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Developed Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Postgres), LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture and MEAN (MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS and NodeJS).  • Gained experience in Python by developing software using new tools and libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, PySide, python-twitter, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas data-frame, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity to improvise software development process.  • Followed the best practice of python such as PEP-8  • Well-versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experienced in version control systems such GIT, SVN and CVS.  • Experience with Agile and SDLC methodologies.  • Expertise in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and MongoDB.  • Experienced in REST Web Services with Python programming language.  • Strong knowledge in SQL concepts - CRUD operations and aggregation framework.  • Extensive experience in the design of Mongo DB database - Indexing and Sharding.  • Good knowledge in IDE - Visual Studio, Eclipse, PyCharm.  • Good experience in building and testing Google app search engine using Python.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Nginx.  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts and bash scripting.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Experience in Methodology and Standard determination and implementation, System Architecture and Structural Optimization, Development and Deployment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer CVS Health - Providence, RI August 2016 to Present Roles and responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and implemented data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Wrote XML and JSON files to load data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Used Git version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, AWS, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, MySQL, Linux, Ajax, Git. Python Developer Dell Software - Aliso Viejo, CA January 2015 to July 2016 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of webpages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as CSV, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Used AJAX and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Queried MySQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package to retrieve information.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose algorithm for data and address generation.  Environment: Python, Django, CSS, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux. Python Developer AGERO - MA January 2014 to December 2014 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked on conversion of Sales/Back Office Integration system from PHP to Python/Django System.  • Responsible for setting up networks through Design and Development.  • Developed business logic using Django framework.  • Developed GUI using HTML, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Supported PHP/LAMP application.  • Used Web services for integration with Back Office system.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Used Python and Django for creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Maintained Apache Server on Linux Platform.    Environment: Python, Django, PHP 8, LAMP (MySQL, Linux), Linux, Apache, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Verizon - Walnut Creek, CA January 2013 to December 2013 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked on development of Service order processing system for telecomm products.  • Responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running quickly with online features.  • Engineered stable, isolated environments per game team.  • Used HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Worked on Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi-threading functionality.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, jQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users    Environment: C, Python, Perl, Linux, Shell Scripting, Java Script, jQuery, JSON, MySQL, Apache, Linux. Software Engineer IBM - Bangalore, Karnataka October 2010 to September 2012 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the internal web portal.  • Created a website using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Adhering to W3C established web standards, maintained cross browser/cross-platform compatibility.  • Implemented and delivered page templates including optimized images.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.    Environment: Python, HTML, CSS, Java, JavaScript, MySQL, Oracle, Linux and Windows. Skills HTML (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), LINUX (6 years), MYSQL (6 years), PYTHON (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Front-end technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Sass, Bootstrap, Responsive Web Design, jQuery, AngularJS, ReactJS, Grunt, Gulp, Bower, XML, JSON.  Back-end technologies Python, Django, C, Java.  Web services AWS, EC2.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra.  Servers Apache Tomcat, nginx.  Versioning tools Git, svn.  Operating systems Windows, macOS, Linux/Unix