Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Aetna ? Around 6 years of extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using Python 3.x, Django, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX  ? Experienced in automating deployment to a distributed architecture with tools such as Chef.  ? Utilized the latest front end Technologies such as HTML5 and CSS3 for layouts.  ? Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  ? Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns using Python Flask framework.  ? Experience in developing software applications for implementing Big Data environment  ? Strong skills in developing/deploying Restful/SOAP Web Services using Jersey, SOAP.  ? Expertise in implementing Object-Oriented technologies, Web basedclient-serverarchitecture, service oriented architecture and Object RelationalMappings (ORM).  ? Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark.  ? Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  ? Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN and CVS. Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  ? Experience in Implementation of MVC architecture using Spring MVC and SOAP web service and SOAP UI.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Experience with the uses of NoSQL platform, such as MongoDB.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and Python) Architecture. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Aetna - Hartford, CT August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python 3.x, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  ? Worked as a Python developer for Data Mining and Trend Analysis in Operations Dashboard Project, Data  ? Designed and developed Python Django templates and UI components using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and JSON.  ? Designed Data Quality Framework to perform schema validation and data profiling on Spark (Pyspark)  ? Creating data pipelines using Apache Spark, a big-data processing and computing framework.  ? Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations, data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  ? Implemented machine learning algorithms in Spark and Python, for segmentation of data.  ? Developed web, client/server using restful API's  ? Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL database  ? Understands the complex processing needs of big data and has experience developing codes and modules.  ? Automated JIRA processes using python and bash scripts.  ? Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Creating data pipelines using Apache Spark, a big-data processing and computing framework.  ? Designed code in Python to interact with diverse instances in Amazon Web Services (AWS)  ? Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  ? Involved in the development ORM Queries.  ? Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  ? Developed, tested, and deployed Storify Business featureset in Node.js wih Express and MongoDB backend, incorporating APIs.  ? Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  ? Designed and developed middleware, using RESTful web services based on a centralized schema which is consumed by thousands of users.  ? Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  ? Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Experience in development methodologies like Agile Scrum and Waterfall.  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management. Python Developer Best Buy - Seattle, WA July 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Developed back-end stored procedures and triggers using Oracle PL/SQL, involved in database objects creation, performance tuning of stored procedures, and query plan.  ? Engaged with multiple popular frameworks and technologies, including Spring, Hibernate, REST, and PostgreSQL.  ? Leveraged spark (Pyspark) to manipulate unstructured data and apply text mining on user's table utilization data  ? Developed a module to build Django ORM queries that can pre-load data to greatly reduce the number of databases queries needed to retrieve the same amount of data.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system, operations and data conversion scripts for API Integrations.  ? Experience in leading multiple efforts to build NoSQL platforms along with SOLR (search platform) for maximizing business value by combining data science with big data  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB  ? Web Log Analysis using Apache Spark. (PySpark)  ? Increased the speed of pre-existing search indexes through DJango ORM optimizations.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and AWS architecture.  ? Helped create a hybrid-web application with both an angular-based front-end that consumes a RESTful API as well as a MVC-style back end  ? Developed Django, Python, Apache, bash scripting  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content. Python Developer UBS - Secaucus, NJ January 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Python.  ? Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management. Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users, used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Helped the big data analytics team with implementation of python scripts for Sqoop, spark and Hadoop batch data streaming.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript and Angular JS.  ? To provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef. Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  ? Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box part of the SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) team enforcing best practices for services ( REST and SOAP).  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Created a demo website running on a Node.js, using the Express framework, Jade, and Backbone.js with Mustache.js for front end MVC/templating  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud also Learnt to deploy projects using Jenkins. Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Develop Informatica mapping, SQL, concurrent workflows, and unix scripts to execute the DFL jobs. Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Java script for front end applications.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL. Worked in an agile development environment and used GitHub for version control.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team. Python Developer CenturyLink - Monroe, LA August 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript  ? Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  ? Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python and its familiar framework Django.  ? Views and Templates were developed with Python and Bash scripting and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  ? Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  ? Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created.  ? Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  ? Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  ? Python Unit test library was used for the purpose of testing many programs on Python and other codes.  ? Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python 2.7, Java, Bash script, Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey.  ? Collect and analyze data from actual work and show the table or graphic on the webpage using MVC, SQL, HTML, CSS, BootStrap, JQuery, AJAX, and Javascripts.  ? Performed different testing methods like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing and selenium testing.  ? For the manipulation of data from the database various queries using SQL were written and created a database using MYSQL.  ? Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  ? Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python Matplotlib library.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project, deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  ? Created Git repository and added to GitHub project. Skills DJANGO (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), JSON (7 years), XML (7 years), MYSQL (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Cloud & SaaS Experience -  Amazon Web Services (AWS), Openstack,Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation,AWS CloudFront  Linux Versions: Hypervisors: Ubuntu, Red Hat, CentOS VM Ware, KVM  Development Stack Experience -  Frameworks: Django, Openstack  Databases: MongoDB, MySQL, SQL Server. PostgreSQL, Oracle  JavaScript Frameworks: Node.js, jQuery, Backbone.js, ExtJS, Ember.js, AngularJS  Hosting: AWS, Rackspace, Linux (Red Hat, Ubuntu, CentOS)  API Integration: JSON, REST, XML, SOAP  Markup: HAML, SASS, LESS,  Web Servers: Apache  Source Control: Github, Bitbucket, CVS, Eclipse, SVN  Search Tools: Lucene, Solr, ElasticSearch  Deployment: Jenkins  Configuration- Puppet,chef