Full Stack Python Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Python Developer - Dollar General Nashville, TN • 8 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on various domains.  • Handy experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask and Spring web application frameworks.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stack.  • Good Experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing Front-End and Back-End framework using various design patterns.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and JQuery.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries - Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, Pychart, Highcharts) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  • Excellent knowledge on Python Collections and Multi-Threading.  • Extreme knowledge on creating EC2 instances, AMI's, Load balancers and Auto Scaling.  • Highly knowledge on AWS cloud platform features which includes EBS, Cloud watch, Cloud Trail,  R53.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Open VMS 6.2, 7.1 & 7.2, Unix (SOLARIS), Linux, and NT systems. Performed system tuning functions and installed software on NT, Unix, and Alpha-servers.  • Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful APL and MVC design patterns.  • Responsible for Data Backups, Restores and Recovery using tape.sys software.  • Assisted in troubleshooting of VMS hardware, software and network problems.  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity, Security, and Database applications.  • Well versed with Design and Development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows 98 / NT / 2000 / XP / Vista / 7 / 8/ 10, UNIX, and MAC OS X.  • Good Analytical and Problem-Solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Practical experience with working on Multiple-Environments like Development, Testing, Production.  Excellent Interpersonal and Communication skills, Efficient Time Management and Organization Skills, ability to handle Multiple-Tasks and work well in a Team-Environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Python Developer Dollar General - Nashville, TN May 2016 to Present Description - At Dollar General we develop software to support the client business requirements as well as the internal needs. Also, we assure the quality of software by testing of the product.  Responsibilities -  • Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs.  • Technical experience with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Debug application deployments on Multiple-environments.  • Created Business Logic using Python 3.6.  • Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization / debug at the deployment site.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Wrote scripts in Python for Extracting Data from HTML file.  • Used Git for the version control.  • Developed Application using Java J2EE Platform.  • Designed and developed components using Python.  • As a Python Developer, I designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  • Development of real-time multitasking systems using Java.  • Deployed Cloud with various templates.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Familiar with open-stack services such as NOVA, SWIFT, KEYSTONE, NEUTRON, CINDER and GLANCE.  Environment- Python 3.6, Django 1.7, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Javascript, JSP, UML, Rational Rose, Multithreading, HTTP, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, ODBC, Pro*C, PVCS, Oracle 9i. Python Developer Wells Fargo - Dublin, CA March 2014 to May 2016 Description - The project was to use Google Analytics, conduct SEO and enhance the existing web portal by re-engineering search, sort, list, shopping cart, cancellation, payment processor and payment gateways.  Responsibilities-  • Developed Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login, and signup of users  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers, and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data  • Programmed, tested, and implemented a user login, product registration, order placing & tracking, and statistics reporting system  • Generated Python Django forms to record Data of online users.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html pages layout.  • Performed different testing methods like Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and conducted meetings among peers  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for seasonal marketing campaigns.  Environment- Python, Django, Linux, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Apache, Git Python Developer Discover Financial Services - Chicago, IL July 2013 to February 2014 Description - The project involves development of new functionalities and maintenance to student checking account and resources.  Responsibilities -  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed tools to automate base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for existing and new implementation.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Debug and fix bugs of various priorities, thereby reducing team's backlog by 30%.  Environment- Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Apache, HTTP, XML, JavaScript, GIT. Python Developer Progressive Digital Media Private Limited July 2010 to June 2013 Description - Progressive Digital Media is one of the leading Telecom providers. Our project is Directory Enquiry - a search engine for Directory. The Application mainly has two modules Agent Application and Admin Application. Searching different directories based on name and city maintaining the search history of agent and maintaining reports are the main functionalities in Agent Application. Admin Application mainly comprises of creating new users, their roles, permissions, and check reports.  Responsibilities -  • Programming in Python as well as Perl.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  Environment- Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra. Education Bachelor of Technology in Guntur K L University Skills CSS (7 years), DJANGO (7 years), HTML (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), jQuery (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web - Technologies: CSS, Java Script, JQuery, HTML, AngularJS.  Programming Languages: Python, C/C++, Java  Analytic Tools: Adobe CQ, Google Analytics Fiddler  Frameworks: Django  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS  Issue Trackers: Bugzilla, JIRA, and Crucible  Operating Systems: Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu, and MAC OSX