Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - ADESA Work Experience Python Developer ADESA - Carmel, IN September 2018 to Present Description:  ADESA, Inc. provides whole car auctions and related services to the vehicle remarketing industry in North America. The company also offers value-added services, such as auction related, transportation, reconditioning, inspection, title and repossession administration, remarketing, vehicle research, and analytical services, as well as data as a service.    Responsibilities:  ? Interacted with Business team to gather requirements.  ? Extensive experience with AWS services like S3, ELB, EBS, Auto-Scaling, Route53, Storefront, IAM, Cloud Watch, RDS etc.  ? Extensively involved in infrastructure as code, execution plans, resource graph and change automation using Terraform. Managed AWS infrastructure as code using Terraform.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  ? Developed file cleaners using Python libraries and made it clean.  ? Worked on MVC architecture using PHP, Python as controller.  ? Build numerous Lambda functions using python and automated the process using the event created.  ? Created an AWS Lambda architecture to monitor AWS S3 Buckets and triggers a thumbnail create event whenever a user uploads a new picture.  ? Worked on packages like socket, REST API, Django.  ? Hands on experience in migrating Business from a physical data centre environment to AWS.  ? Experienced in setting up EC2 instances, security groups and Setting up databases in AWS using S3bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  ? Performed S3 buckets creation, policies on IAM role based polices, MFA and customizing the JSON template  ? Automated various service and application deployments with ANSIBLE on CentOS and RHEL in AWS.  ? Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  ? Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  ? Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Understanding of secure-cloud configuration, CloudTrail, cloud-security technologies (VPC, Security Groups, etc.) and cloud-permission systems (IAM)  ? Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  ? Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  ? Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  Environment: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Cloud Environment, Lambda, Dynamo DB, Python 3.7.2, Django, API Gateway, Java, J2EE, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, CloudWatch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. Python Developer Puget Sound Energy - Bellevue, WA April 2018 to September 2018 Description:  Puget Sound Energy, Inc. operates as a regulated electric and natural gas utility company in the United States. The company engages in the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity; and distribution of natural gas.    Responsibilities:  ? Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language tocreate a user-friendly website interface.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  ? Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  ? Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  ? Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day to day tasks.  ? Extensive usage of SQL Profiler and Analytics for query optimization and maintenance.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  ? Used web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  ? Integration of data storage solutions using Django ORM system for MongoDB.  ? Used Unit Test Python library for testing many programs on python and other codes.  ? Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  ? Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  ? Collaborated with team of QA to build and populate DB and to ensure the standards.  ? Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  ? Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  Environment: Python 3.4, 2.7, Django 1.9/1.7, Java 1.7, SQL, Java Script, Linux, Shell Scripting, Mongo DB HTML, Angular JS, Eclipse JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Amazon s3, AWS. Python Developer Morgan Stanley - New York, NY November 2017 to April 2018 Description:  JPMC is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2 trillion and operations in more than 60 countries. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers, small business and commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management, and private equity.    Responsibilities:  ? Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Worked on large-scale, high-traffic Python web applications to define and implement new features, enhance core functionality, and integrate with other platforms and services.  ? Provided 24x7 support for several host production, QA, and development OLTP databases as well as hundreds of off-site store databases.  ? Installation, configuring, upgrading, migrating, and patching of DB2, Oracle, and SQL Server.  ? Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python.  ? Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  ? Worked on installing and setting up the channels by using Django.  ? Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  ? Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  ? Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web-based applications.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bugzilla, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Insurance Inbox - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  ? Designed and Developed the REST style web services using Python and Flask, Postgres Database.  ? Wrote complex SQL queries and PL/SQL functions.  ? Developed the Command Line Interface (CLI) tool for Red hat Linux.  ? Used Python's XML parser architectures (SAX) and DOM API for tracking small amounts of data without requiring the DB.  ? Created the Linux Services to run REST web services using Shell script.  ? Build the RPM Package for the Product with the upgrade features support.  ? Design and developed the test cases for REST API, Involved REST API test framework development.  ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping  ? Design and develop the test cases for CLI automation using Python.  ? Involved in Unit testing and developed the unit test cases using Pyunit framework.  ? Used Jenkins to deploy web services and run unit tests, REST API test. Java Programmer Lloyd's Banking Group - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  ? Designed and Developed the REST style web services using Python and Flask, Postgres Database.  ? Wrote complex SQL queries and PL/SQL functions.  ? Developed the Command Line Interface (CLI) tool for Red hat Linux.  ? Used Python's XML parser architectures (SAX) and DOM API for tracking small amounts of data without requiring the DB.  ? Created the Linux Services to run REST web services using Shell script.  ? Build the RPM Package for the Product with the upgrade features support.  ? Design and developed the test cases for REST API, Involved REST API test framework development.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping  ? Design and develop the test cases for CLI automation using Python.  ? Involved in Unit testing and developed the unit test cases using PyUnit framework.  ? Used Jenkins to deploy web services and run unit tests, REST API test.