Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - United Health group Minneapolis, MN • 7+ years of experience in Web/Application Development in analytical programming using Python and Java with skills in analysis, design, development, testing and deploying software applications.  • Experienced with full software development life - cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design, etc.  • Experience working in Java, JavaScript, and Python software development environments using Agile methodology.  • Experience with design, code, debug operations, reporting, and data analysis utilizing Python.  • Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries)  • Vast experience coding in various IDEs - Eclipse, Netbeans, Sublime Text, Spyder, PyCharm.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, AWS, Jinja, WSGI, PostgreSQL, Redis, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, and XML.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Java Script, and Node.js.  • Experienced in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Java, C++, and PHP.  • Well versed in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Familiar with JSON based REST, SOAP, and Amazon Web Services.  • Solid experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL databases.  • Experienced with Unit testing/Test driven Development (TDD), and Load Testing.  • Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language. Good experience with Unix, Linux scripting/unit testing/Load testing, Performance stress/endurance testing and Integration Testing; tools and frameworks- Junit, PyUnit, HP VUGEN LoadRunner, Selenium Web driver, Controller, Dynatrace, Performance Center, QC, JIRA.  • Experience in Agile scrum development techniques, sprint releases and TDD.  • Knowledge in R language, Hadoop, big data analytics, ML packages and data mining.  • Querying web-based databases for internal stakeholders to perform data analytics.  • Experience in Python OpenSatck API'S  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Experience in AWS like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS.  • Actively involved in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  • Designed mockups, GUI layouts by using HTML4, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Analysis the logs data and filter required columns by logstash configuration and send it to elasticsearch.  • Designed Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) and GUI layouts by using Adobe Dreamweaver CS4 and AJAX  • Leading, guiding and helping the team members with the challenges faced during the project development process and problem solving.  • Have flexibility and ability to learn and use new technologies and also to work in team environment as wells as independently to get things done. Work Experience Python developer United Health group - Minnetonka, MN December 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Designed, developed, coded and worked in penetration testing in customized DOL-AWS GovCloud Node.js Security Monitoring of VPC Zones using AWS - Lambda to load customized Spark-Scala GraphX Application  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language for the Web application.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Installed and configured Hadoop Mapreduce, HDFS, Developed multiple MapReduce jobs in java for data cleaning and preprocessing.  • Installed and configured Pig and written PigLatin scripts.  • Extensively involved in Installation and configuration of Cloudera's distribution  • Developed User Interfaces using JSF (Primefaces), AngularJS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery and CSS.  • Designed and led big data algorithms using Hadoop and Java to improve forecasting and used HiveQL to generate reports.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS for effective design of Web pages  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Created Spring Batches for running batch jobs and documented the use of Spring Batch.  • Created reusable UI components using React.js  • Involved in developing the Angular JS MVC framework for the Single Page Application development.  • Developed server-side RESTful services and called them from angular controllers.  • Utilized various interactive plugins, widgets to design UI/ UX.  • Worked on Photoshop illustrator and all the adobe technologies.  • Used Spring JDBC template for persistence with data base.  • Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web, and client-server environments including Java  • Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE), Enterprise Java Bean (EJB), JavaServer Pages (JSP), Java  • Servlets (including JNDI), Struts, and Java database Connectivity (JDBC) technologies.  • Fluid understanding of multiple programming languages, including C#, C, C++, JavaScript, HTML, and XML.  • Re-designed and transformed menu backend service to a containerized distributed service.  • Overhauled codebase to increase fault tolerance, scalability, and performance  • Worked in Apache CGI, Cherrypy, python and Bash programming on Red Hat virtual machines to maintain and automate Splunk server deployments and other in-house IT operations.  • Designed logic for semantic procedures and aggregate tables using standard SQL/PLSQL.  • Developed Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and performed-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongorestore.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization as well as wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD. Python Developer General Motors - Detroit, MI September 2015 to November 2017 Responsibilities  • Exposure to automation in Ansible using its Python API.  • Extensively worked on JSF Framework integrated with EJB 3.0, Hibernate 4 and MyBatis 3 for both projects.  • Involved in managing and reviewing Hadoop log files.  • Developed custom directives (elements, Attributes and classes) using JavaScript and angular.  • Developed single page applications using Angular, implemented two-way data binding using AngularJS.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Converted PSD mockups into pure hand-written HTML and CSS pages.  • Handled all the client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQUERY.  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Worked on all activities related to the development, implementation and support for Hadoop.  • Developed user interface by using the Reactjs, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Upheld quality control and data validity for Java programs.  • Resolved application and connectivity problems in Java programs.  • Involved in Support and Implementation of new enhancements in Web services, Java/J2EE  • Developed a dashboard to display tickets status and workflow using React and REST API.  • Implemented Agile Process on software development life cycle and done effort estimations using function points and 3p estimations.  • Involved in Design technical meetings, Development, unit testing, regression testing and Integration testing of the application.  • Developed the Stateless Session bean for processing the business logic.  • Developed Components using JSP, Servlets and Server-side components using EJB under J2EE  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Experienced in designing web pages and Graphical user interfaces, front end layouts on the web by using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap framework, PHP, XML, JavaScript, node Js and Angularjs.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/3.0, Django 1.7/1.8, PHP, Angularjs, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experienced in working with server-side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns. Python Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA October 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities  • Upheld program quality and delivery standards in developing software solutions.  • Build backend security services for Cisco platforms such as web & email security appliances and cloud services, firewall, and next-generation backend intelligence systems.  • Designed and developed new features for application using HTML, JSTL, JavaScript and XSL  • Developed Java utility classes for common application functionality like database access, error logging and configuration file  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using HTML, XHTML, CSS.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for easy timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed a web application for developers to generate their own REST API calls in, JAVA, and Python.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data and responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files and generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications and involved in fine tuning of existing processes followed advance patterns and methodologies.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Used PHP as an HTML embedded scripting language, in front end web development.  • Constructed and involved in penetration tested Production EC2 Container Service Stacks; as well as installed, managed and designed DOL - Docker Containers onto AWS-GovCloud.  • Created required shell or python scripts for data push from Informatica/Teradata to S3. Python Developer Verizon - New York, NY December 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Writing backend programming in Python and used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angularjs.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed RESTful services using Django.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Worked on changes to openstack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloudwatch and SNS.  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using Highcharts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Worked on front end frameworks like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Worked with WEB API's to make calls to the web services using URLs, which would perform GET, PUT, POST and DELETE operations on the server.  • Created stored procedure, trigger on the database to provide/insert specific data from multiple tables for Web API services.  • Wrote code to support model-view-controller (MVC) pattern of Python Django framework in developing several modules for the application.  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful Web Service from consumer side using JavaScript.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Creating invitation flow for customers to use the client portal for monitoring applications.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks. Education Bachelor's Skills MySQL, Javascript, PHP