Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - TDS Madison, WI • Around 8 years of experience in Web and Application Development coding in Python, C, C++, shell scripts.  • Experienced in developing in web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience using various Python libraries such asNumpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables.  • Hands on experience in RDBMS like MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, IBM DB2, and NoSQL databases MongoDB.  • Good knowledge of design patterns including Singleton, Observer, Facade and abstract factory.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Good experience in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Experience in version control systems using CVS, SVN and Git/Github and issue tracking tools like Jira and BugZilla.  • Implemented unit testing, test driven development and integration test automation to test a group of related functionalities.  • Expertise in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL, multithreading, data structures and design patterns.  • Working experience with AWS provided Solutions like EC2, ELB, VPC, RDS, S3.  • Extremely knowledgeable about CI/CIT/CID integration.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT).  • Technical knowledge of fundamental web protocols and technologies including HTTP, HTTPS, HTML, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, JSON and REST.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Complete life cycle (SDLC) experience of a product life cycle involving define, design, development and testing phases. Knowledge Objected Oriented Concepts, Data Structures.  • Experience in building frameworks and automating complex workflows using Python for Test Automation.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer TDS - Madison, WI March 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Gathered all requirements for developing and analyzing requirement of projects.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Built all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Developed Python scripts to monitor health of MongoDB databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Evaluated JSON based REST, SOAP Web services on Amazon Web services (AWS) along with EBS and RDS.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed and managed federal financial instruments and securities data, reporting, analytics, and systems solutions using the Microsoft SQL Server, BI tools like SSIS, SharePoint, Tidal and C++ framework.  • Used basic and scientific python libraries such as SciPy, NumPy, Pandas, and beautiful soup to develop dynamic ETL processes using python scripts to read and load vendor files from external web applications, and performed data transformations to prepare the data to be loaded to the data warehouse for analytics and reporting.  • Created new databases, database backups/restores, and migrated existing tables into the newly created databases using standard tools and procedures.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application. Implemented Integration test cases.  • Used Git and Github for source control.  • Used several python libraries like SymPy, wxPython, NumPy and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for easy timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed, developed, and managed enterprise production data warehouses and business intelligence and analytics platforms and applications.  • Troubleshoot, fine-tuned performance, monitored and provided 24/7 enterprise production database support for critical situations and ensured overnight processes completed successfully to meet business service level agreements.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, MongoDB, Git, AWS EBS, RDS, SymPy, wxPython, NumPy, matPlotLib, SciPy, Pandas, Linux. Python Developer NEC - Dallas, TX 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Held overall responsibility of coordination of implementations of software builds and releases.  • Provided analytics to help determine optimal way to assemble releases.  • Facilitated release planning meetings to construct efficient releases that reflect demand and capacity.    Environment: Python, Pandas, XML, MySQL, Shell Scripting, Python Scripts, JIRA, Oracle, SOAP, JQuery, UAT, HTML, CSS, JavaScript Python Developer Gilbarco Veeder-root 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, design and architecture of the application.  • Worked on requirement gathering and High level design.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash, I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Used HTML/CSS, XML and JavaScript for UI development.  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MySQL.  • Generated Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login and signup of online users.  • Experience in development test automation.  • Designed and Implemented a Random Unique Test Selector Package on processing large volume of data using Python and Django ORM.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and conducted meetings among peer.  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization.  Environment: Python, Django, Jenkins, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git. Python Developer INDIAMAX - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN June 2009 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD. Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java, C++  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Created Data layer in MYSQL.  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Generated SWIG interfaces to co-ordinate between C++, Java and Python. Used JNI for communication between C++ and Java.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.    Environment: Python, Java, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MySQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Unix Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux, WebLogic Application Server. Skills MYSQL (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), SQL (7 years), CSS (7 years), HTML (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Shell Scripting, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL, PHP, Core Java  Databases MySQL, Mongo DB, SQLite  Frameworks Django, Flask, jQurey, Bootstrap    Operating Systems Windows, Mac OS X, Unix (Ubuntu, Red Hat, Cent OS)  Version Control Systems SVN, CVS, GitHub    Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Libraries NumPy, SciPy, Beautiful Soup, Pandas, WxPython, PyTables, matplotLib, SymPy  IDE IDLE, NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, Sublime Text  Web Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic