Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - DirecTV Hawthorne, CA •• - - - - - - - - - - - -  • 7 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and coding with analytical programming and client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django and flask, MySQL, Unix and Linux, JavaScript, XML.  • Excellent knowledge on numPy, sciPy and IPython  • Proficient in Object oriented design experience, with extensive experience of Python-C/C++ binding  • Working knowledge of error and exception handling debugging using PDB, Eclipse and Pycharm.  • Responsible for the whole Platform, including infrastructure work, core back-end services, integrations, microservices architecture.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django Flask, Jinja, WSGI, Nginx, Fabric, PostgreSQLand REDIS.  • Have good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra and Mongo DB and SQL databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite3.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as SVN (Centralized Version Control System) and GIT (Distributed Version Control System).  • Thorough understanding of providing specifications using Waterfall, RUP or Agile Software methodology to modeling systems and business processes.  • Built a restful microservice with the use of flask  • Experience with Agile methodology using TFS and Rally.  • Proven track record of implementing data driven web back ends with Python and Django.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer DirecTV - Los Angeles, CA March 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for setting up networks through Design and Development.  • Creating web-based Applications for smart TV  • Created web journal with Django Framework, Flask and Jinja.  • Engineered various custom modules for integration of various types of network circuits.  • Optimized the code using smart pointers, profilers and C++ Standard template library.  • Designed and built an effective Basic Video customization development environment for other developers to work in.  • Authored important Network APIs for Basic Video, developed user interface screens and solved customer reported software bugs or issues.  • Used Purify, GDB and DBX for debugging/crash logs which helped in performance enhancement and optimization.  • Maintenance of Oracle, PostGreSQL databases.  • Created RESTful API's calls with server, parse output report of excel files.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes. Python Developer JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH April 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:    • Used Python to build their pricing, risk management and trade management platform.  • I have used Numpy/Scipy, Pandas ( Python data analysis library) for all sort of data analysis.  • I have also wrote the banking management scripts in python to support the bank website in creating user profiles, we can also do the simple banking transactions for the withdrawls, deposit and transactions is accompanied by password check by securing individual account holder's privacy.  • Responsible for the whole Platform, including infrastructure work, core back-end services, integrations, microservices architecture.  • Built a restful microservice with the use of flask  • Developed the web applications with the use of the Django and flask.  • Backend skills in creating SQL objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, Triggers, Rules, Defaults, user defined data types and functions.    • Using Django_evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models, while retaining all data, while sight was in production mode.    • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.    • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.    • Managed over 100 domains  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Used python classes and decorating methods for creating the dependency graphs for the business logic and applications. Python Developer San Antonio, TX October 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing and web application testing.  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Test and validated the custom scripts.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, and VMWare API calls.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors).  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation. Jr. Python Developer Devanshi Electronics - Vadodara, Gujarat July 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:    • Create a Python application for ERM system.  • Used Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Designed and developed components using Python.  • Designed unit test framework for new code.  • Used GIT Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Implemented database access and data manipulation functions using MySQL.  • Update and Replace Java, C++ application in Python.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium. Education Bachelor of Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Gujarat Technological University - Gujarat, IN June 2010 Skills database (5 years), Django (7 years), MySQL (4 years), Python (7 years), Subversion (4 years) Additional Information - - - - - - - - - - - - •• Technical Skills •• - - - - - - - - - -  • Language: Python, C, HTML  • Database: Oracle, SQL, MySQL, Mongodb, Cassandra  • Web Technologies: CSS, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap  • Operating System: Windows, Linux  • Python Framework: Django, Spring, Flask  • Version Control: Git, SVN, CVS.  • Technical Writing Tools: MSWord, Excel, Pages, Terminal