Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Selene FinanceLocation Houston, TX • 7+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications in Python  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, C++, XML, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Proficient in Front end development using HTML, XML, CSS, jQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  • Experience with Web Development, Python and the Django framework.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testingand Implementation and support.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN.  • Experience in developing web applications implementing MVC architecture using Django framework andSQLAlchemy.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Experienced in Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT) IBM MQ libraries, Perl, Python scripting.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle and MySQL.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Sound knowledge in Spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Conducted numerous enhancements for the system and bug-fixing tasks.  • Executed asynchronous tasks with help of Celery and Rabbit MQ.  • Versatile with Version control systems including Git and SVN and Implemented RESTful API which returns data from PostgreSQL in JSON format Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Selene FinanceLocation - Houston, TX September 2016 to Present Built an execution environment or system that allows for automated testing of tools. It can be viewed as a platform to test out a set of assumptions or planned changes (in the analysis tools/version, dataset/models or execution environment) and make side-by-comparison of results or to verify qualification status of production tools.    Responsibilities:  * Management of a test library for each tool-version flavor as configured, provide a mechanism to execute the tools-versions under test  * Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  * Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  * Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  * Used Django API's to access the database.  * Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  * Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  * Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  * Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  * Developed efficient Angular.js for client web-based application.  * Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  * Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  * Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  * Responsible for managing large databases using MySQL.  * Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db. package. Used the Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  * Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  * Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  * Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  * Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  * Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  * Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the Application.    Environment: Python3.x+, Django 1.4, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, MYSQL, Cassandra, JIRA Sr. Python Developer Gexa Energy - Houston, TX January 2015 to July 2016 Developed a web-based application using python to automate the bill management process. I had developed an application that fetches the reportsand other data from the vendor's websites (total of different 5 vendors)and fill that data into the respective tables into the database.    Responsibilities:  * Worked alone on the project from gather requirement developing theentire application, with help from another analyst.  * Wrote python routines to log into the websites and fetch data forselected options.  * Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  * Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  * Used networking and application protocol.  * Worked on QA (quality assurance) Automated testing tools that can execute tests, reporting outcomes and comparing results withearlier test runs.  * Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel fileformats.  * Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing anddebugging.  * Wrote programs for performance calculationsusingNumPyandSQLAlchemy.  * Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  * Created and executed test plans using PyUnit.  * Worked with the testing team for resolving bugs.  * Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  * Used jQuery for all client-sideJavaScript manipulation.  * Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  * Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  * Built development environment with JIRA, Git.  * Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.  * Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  * Performed QA testing on the application.  Environment: Python 2.7, PyCharm (IDE) Windows 7, Teradata, Requests, urllib, urllib2, Beautiful soup, UI, Tableau. Python Developer Idea Entity - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  * Involved in understanding the current business process, defining scope of the project along with position statement.  * Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  * Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  * Used Python and Django creating for XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  * Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  * Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  * Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  * Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  * Writing Unit, Functional, and Integration test cases for Cloud Computing applications on AWS using Python with boto library.  * Held meetings with client and worked all alone for entire internal project with limited help from the client.  * Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  * Connected Flex from Backend Controller using different API services.  * Working with the architect, developers on business and technical issues, helping in designing the system; and testers to ensure all requirements are correctly translated.  * Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers, and User Defined function.  * I have also used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  * Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.  Environment: Python, Django, Java, MySQL, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, MYSQL Python Developer AP Electronics - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2011 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  * Involve in the development of the application and Implemented user interface guidelines using Python, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  * Developed and maintained presentation layer (UI) for the Wholesale Management Portal.  * Developed GUI using Python and Flask for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  * Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  * Develop the existing application to enhance the features using Flask Framework and improve the performance using web services.  * Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintain and related task using Jenkins, Python, Bash.  * Monitored the error logs and fixed the bugs using Splunk.  * Successfully migrated the database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgres SQL with complete data integrity.  * Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  * Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the entire application.    Environment: Python, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, REST, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Karma, GIT. Education Bachelor's Skills Python, Django, Javascript, Flask