Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Federated Wireless Arlington, VA • 7 years of industrial experience working as a core Python Developer and Front end/UI Developer responsible in developing interactive web applications with valuable & intuitive user experiences.  • Experience in analyzing data using Python, R, SQL, Microsoft Excel, Hive, PySpark, Spark SQL for Data Mining, Data Cleansing, Data Munging and Machine Learning. Hands on experience in Designing and developing API's for the application using Python, Django, MongoDB, Express, ReactJS, and NodeJS.  • Experience with Requests, NumPy, Matplotlib, SciPy, PySpark and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Developed a CLI utility to allow daily Parse database backups. The utility is using Parse Rest API to export user tables into json files, download into temp folder, then upload these files into Amazon AWS S3 bucket. I used Parse Rest, AWS Boto, and other python libraries.  • Primary experience in developing API's for the application using Python, Django, MongoDB, Express, ReactJS, and NodeJS.  • Good knowledge on developing automation software for Elasticsearch Cluster deployment.  • Used python decorators, generator, list comprehensions, list, JSON, cache, pandas and NumPy for building python functions for processing of data.  • Hands on Apache Spark jobs using Scala in test environment for faster data processing and used Spark SQL for querying.  • As a Python Developer/ Architect Worked on various micro web applications development using Flask and SQLAlchemy.  • Experience in AWS services (S3, EC2) and deployment services (Lambda) and RDS, DynamoDB (NoSQL), Beanstalk, SQSand Jenkins CICD.  • Experience in AWS Elastic Beanstalk for app deployments and worked on AWS lambda with Amazon kinesis.  • Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installed and configured Kubernetes.  • Extensive experience includes SCM, Change/Incident Management, VMware, and AWS Cloud computing.  • Jenkins pipeline preparation for WebSphere, Tomcat and Docker based applications deployments.  • Experienced in creating spark module using data frame to read data from parquet files.  • Experience in web-based applications with extensive use of Python 2.7, Python 3.3, Python 3.4 Django 1.4/1.3, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML.  • Experience in Automation scripts by using Selenium and Win Runner also used Test Director/HP ALM to manage the entire Automation testing process.  • Experience in Web development with Python and Django, with good understanding of ORM and SQLAlchemy, SQL, ETL, Linux, Asynchronous task queues with Celery and RabbitMQ.  • Devops experience with Puppet, Ansible, Kubernetes, Chef, AWS (OPS Work) and OpenStack.  • Experience in python, PySpark, shell script, oracle scheduler, Luigi, Oracle Pl SQL etc.  • Good working experience in using version control systems Git and GitHub.  • Hands-on experience in developing web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Federated Wireless - Arlington, VA November 2018 to Present • Involved in developing web-based application using Python, Django, JavaScript, Express, ReactJS, Node JS, Express, AJAX, CSS, and HTML.  • On SWNG application initiate TDD (Test Driven Development) approach to update Rest API from DRF (Django Rest Framework) to Rest API.  • Designed and developed an entire module called CDC (change data capture) in python and deployed in AWS GLUE using Pyspark library and python.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Created views and stored procedures which organized PDF files with additional metadata that is indexed into the Elasticsearch system.  • Supported development of Web portals, completed Database Modelling in PostgreSQL, front end support in HTML/CSS, JQuery.  • Understanding of secure-cloud configuration, Cloud Trail, cloud-security technologies (VPC, Security Groups, etc.) and cloud-permission systems (IAM)  • Experience in Installing Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven and Maven Repository and Deployment of apps using custom modules through Puppet as a CI/CD Process.  • Effectively used the life cycle methods such as Initialization, Mounting, Updating and Unmounting and invoked them at different phases of the components life cycle to develop quality React Js user interfaces.  • Documented the requirements including the available code which should be implemented using Spark, Hive, HDFS, HBase and Elasticsearch.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  • Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installed and configured Kubernetes.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Experienced in developing a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Python and Django.  • Golang, Infrastructure Teams and Engineering Productivity utilizing Kubernetes, Docker, influxDB Ansible, Spinnaker.  • Deployed and configured Elastic search, Fluentd and Kibana (EFK) for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and X-Ray.  • Configured the logs using Prometheus locally and Forwarding the logs to Splunk using Fluentd.  • Worked on analyzing Hadoop stack and different big data analytic tools including Pig, Hive, HBase database and DynamoDB.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 instance to deploy Django project into AWS. Configured continuous integration with Jenkins on Amazon EC2.  • Responsible for designing and developing REST web services in Python using Flask and flask-restful framework.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Developed Scala, R Python for regular expression (regex) project in the Hadoop/Hive environment with Linux/Windows for big data resources.  • Worked with AVRO, Parquet and ORC file format and various compression formats like Snappy to store data into HDFS.  • Worked on AWS services (S3, EC2) and deployment services (Lambda) and RDS, DynamoDB (NoSQL), Beanstalk, SQSand Jenkins CICD.  • Worked on the development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and denormalization in MYSQL.  • Developed Talend jobs to configure RabbitMQ for batch load on data.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access • Used Celery with RabbitMQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) on Amazon EC2.  • Used Spark Streaming APIs to perform transformations and actions on the fly for building common.  • Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites.  • Executed MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Written Pig scripts for sorting, joining and grouping the data. Experienced with working on Avro Data files using Avro Serialization system.  • Used Spark Streaming to divide streaming data into batches as an input to Spark engine for batch processing.  • Extracted data from PostgreSQL, Cassandra, Redis, InfluxDB and Elastic Search.  • Wrote a Python library built on NumPy and sklearn to detect errors on daily reports. Debugging the spark code using local and in cluster mode.  • Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in AmazonEC2.  • Worked on implementing Spark Framework a Java based Web Frame work. Worked and learned a great deal from AWS cloud services like EC2, S3.    • Experienced in writing live Real-time Processing and core jobs using Spark Streaming with Kafka as a Data pipe-line system.  • Installing, configuring, maintaining and troubleshooting a wide variety of network equipment, from PCs and servers to printers and standalone devices.  • Experienced with automation, web development and engineering environment tools such as JIRA, Jenkins, Git, Chef, Selenium.  • Utilized Python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib for generating graphical reports. Python Developer Mercedes Benz Credit - Reston, VA April 2018 to October 2018 • Created an Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python, Django, JSF, Spring, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Implemented Stable React JS components and Stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Built Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing terraform code.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed backend web services using Node.js and stored dependencies using Node Package Manager (NPM)  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, ReactProps, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events.  • Analysis the logs data and filter required columns by logstash configuration and send it to elasticsearch.  • Design and developed the test cases for REST API, Involved REST API test framework development.  • Worked on server-side applications with Django using Python programming and used python libraries like Beautiful Soup, matplotlib, SciPy, NumPy and Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala.  • Involved in using Python, MongoDB and ReactJS for the design, development, and deployment of the application.  • Used Elasticsearch Framework for developing web applications using model view control architecture.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 instance to deploy Django project into AWS. Configured continuous integration with Jenkins on Amazon EC2.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  • Optimization of heavy load workflows via queues (RabbitMQ) for enhanced performance and less downtime for stakeholders.  • Involved in working with Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, and SQLAlchemy)  • Built a delta file from full file by identifying only INSERTS, UPDATES and DELETES by using python and PySpark modules and store it in S3.  • Automated a reporting process, using Python, Luigi (library for task workflow and dependencies), and another API's.  • Integrated AWS-RDS Oracle and Aurora DBs to AWS-Hive EMR using DynamoDB with direct connect.  Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts. Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS experienced in querying data using SparkSQL on top of Spark engine for faster data sets processing.  • Deploying application in Docker Container for custom environment and hosting in Elastic Beanstalk.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experienced in converting business process into RDD transformations using Apache Spark and Scala.  • Developed spark application working with Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, Pair RDD's.  • Troubleshooting problems related to packet or frame transfer across routers or switches using Wireshark.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Django, Pyramid.  • Maintained the Selenium and Python code and resources in source control like CVS, SVN over the time for improvements and new features.  • Worked in development of applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands. Python/Django Developer Dell Computer Corporation - New York, NY January 2016 to August 2017 • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Python and Django. Utilized Jenkins to deploy the Django application and run unit tests.  • Imported data from AWS S3 into Spark RDD, Performed transformations and actions on RDDs.  • Implemented system logging solution using Logstash, Elasticsearch and Kibana.  • Developing data processing tasks using PySpark such as reading data from external sources, merge data, perform data enrichment and load in to target data destinations. Utilized pandas, NumPy, SciPy, and nltk libraries to create unique reports and analysis.  • Extracted log from Git using Python and performed data cleaning using regex to generate the Changelogs for comparing different software versions.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Angular JS, Bootstrap for development of Web application  • Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core ReactJS.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed REST API get, post, delete, put functionalities for the application using Django Rest Framework.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS and good experience with AWS storage services (S3)  • Processed the Web server logs by developing Multi-Hop Flume agents by using Avro Sink and loaded into MongoDB for further analysis. Extracted files from MongoDB through Sqoop and placed in HDFS and processed it using Hive.  • Developed API's in python with SQLAlchemy for ORM along with MongoDB, documenting API's in Swagger docs and deploying application over Jenkins.  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration. Also gained familiarity with supporting technologies like kubernetes and Mesos.  • Developed Spark Script with PySpark, Java using PyCharm Spring Boot IDE that performs the internalization process.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Used Python 3.X (NumPy, spicy, pandas, scikit-learn, seaborn) and Spark 2.0 (PySpark, MLlib) to develop variety of models and algorithms for analytic purposes.  • Used React.js to specifically breeze the code by using a specific syntax called JSX in which Html and the JavaScript mixed making code simple.  • Performed data processing on financial statements using NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib and scikit-learn.  • Worked with Splunk and Icinga2 for continuous monitoring on MySQL and Mongo Environments.  • Worked in Python Integrated Development Environments like Pygame, PyCharm.  • Worked on mainly developing PySpark code using existing resources like QA code written in python, Hanweck BRD to eliminate the previous flaws in design along with performance improvement.  • Written Python Scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web Services and Amazon Web Services (AWS) Python Developer Johnson & Johnson - New Brunswick, NJ March 2012 to May 2015 • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and other web technologies.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Built Elasticsearch, Log stash and Kibana (ELK) to store logs and metrics into S3 bucket using Lambda function.  • Achieved business process automation via applications developed using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, SQL server and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • sed React.js framework to render the code we declare the code in the react. Components then the react rendered and updated the code.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models. '  • Developed web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for Bigdata analysis and using PySpark.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework by implementing MVC architecture. Maintain measurement website application UI with pandas and NumPy.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, AJAX, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed by Kubernetes Linux, Bash, GIT, Docker, on GCP (Google Cloud Platform) . Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploys.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  • Worked in Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyDev, PyCharm and Sublime Text.  • Involved in design and implementation of Selenium WebDriver automation framework for smoke and regression test suites (TestNG)  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server. Education Master's Skills Git (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), DATABASE (5 years), MYSQL (5 years), LINUX (4 years) Additional Information SKILLS  • Languages: Python, JavaScript, XML, SQL.  • SCM Tools: Subversion, Perforce, Jenkins/Hudson, Sonar, Jira, TFS, Confluence, Clear Case, GIT, GitHub.  • Python Libraries: NumPy, SQLAlchemy, PyGame, PyGlet, PyGtk.  • Database: MongoDB, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, MYSQL and, Oracle, DB2, ODBC.  • Application Servers WebLogic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, Apache tomcat5.5, IIS.  • Issue Tracking Tools ATLASSIAN JIRA, BUGZILLA, Mantis, Service Now.  • Automation Tool: Salt stack, Chef & Puppet.  • Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows, DOS.