Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Starbucks Dallas, TX • Over 7 years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework and experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux and familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services(AWS).  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS, Backbone JS and Bootstrap with MySQL database.  • Expert in C and C++ languages. Written C and C++ applications and also migrated many legacy applications to Python.  • Built Microservices using spring boot, spring security and deployed to AWS cloud.  • Extensive experience on modern front-end templating frameworks for JavaScript - Including Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular JS, Node.js, backbone JS, Ext JS, D3 JS etc.  • Experience in the design and implementation of Embedded /Software Systems and strong exposure to software development tools like Toad, ClearCase, eclipse, SVN Tortoise, putty etc.  • Well aware of SDLC, Waterfall, Test-driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum Methodologies.  • Experience in using React.js, Flux, Common JS, Babel+ES6, Web-Pack for SPA development.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in using Jenkins/Hudson as a Continuous Integration server to configure with Ant/Maven.  • Designed and developed web crawler in python using Scrapy framework and using Rabbitmq as a messaging server between the microservices.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Experience of writing SOAP and RESTful web services for a web claims applications and experience of managing API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Expertise in Object Oriented technologies using Java, J2EE, Design Patterns, JSP, Servlet, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, EJB, JMS, Java Mail, RMI/IIOP, and JAXB, JacksonAPIs.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPY, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, Emacs.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modelling Language (UML).  • Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML and strong knowledge in frameworks IronPython, Cpython.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js and good knowledge of .NET Framework features including Namespace, Inheritance, and Delegates.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end and experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stock.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large database using Oracle Relational data Architecture.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Starbucks - Seattle, WA April 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • Developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python. Designed test cases and authored test plans.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications. Unit testing with JavaScript and node.js.  • Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed and tested HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js that meets accessibility and web browser standards for car dealerships websites.  • Worked on Angular 2 for front-end development and NodeJS for backend development.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed JSPs, Servlets and custom tags for creating user interfaces and worked on Spring JMS, MDB for listeners, Message Broker for routing the messages.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using SVN version control system.  • Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the Node.js environment.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration. Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Wrote JSX code in updating the React DOM and also worked with states and props in initializing the child components using this set method.  • Designed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Developed a high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT), Perl, Python scripting.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript and designed the J2EE components of the RESTful Web Services and scheduled Java batch jobs based application in UML.  • Performed bootstrapping and modularizing of an application with Angular JS injector and gathered all requirements for developing and analysing requirement of projects.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using python scripts and integrated activate catalog to get parts using JMS.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlet under J2EE Environment and implemented security features for the APIs.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for presentation and data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Designed and Developed the parsers for parsing xmls and jsons using jackson, JAXB and developed the controller Servlet to handle the requests and responses.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL and performed dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP- serializable JSON strings.  • Developed asynchronous messaging systems using JMS, MDB, and MQ series.  • Managed virtual servers and accessed various features in Open stack infrastructure using Rest API calls, developed in Python.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations and developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Built AWS and REDIS server for storing the data and performed defect analysis and Interaction with Business Users during UAT/SIT.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLAlchemy.    Environment: Python 3.5, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Jefferies Group - New York, NY September 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands and used Custom Node.JS proxy to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete and to proxy.  • Led the development of parsers for handling JSON, XML responses and JAXB binding and worked with JMS (java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed automated process for builds and deployments; Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Shell Script.  • Worked with React Component Life cycle in updating the Virtual DOM and also making AJAX calls in component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Published and Consumed Contract First SOAP web services using spring & Restful Web services using Jersey.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Worked on JMS components for asynchronous messaging.  • Designed custom Node.js module to, programmatically generate a path for a RESTful endpoint (CRUD) with back end, provided a schema.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed single page applications using Angular.js. Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. Developed UDF's using Python and also implemented graphs using Python with big data analytics.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development. Python Developer Flipkart - IN August 2011 to August 2012 Environment: Python 3.2, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira  Python Developer  Flipkart - India  Aug 2011 to Aug 2012    Responsibilities:  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS. Also involved in the analysis and design of application.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django and created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Worked in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making use of Python matplotlib library.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe and added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests and created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.    Environment: Python 3.2, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3. Python Developer ICICI Bank July 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Wrote Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Involved in developing Restful service using Python Flask framework and managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL and implemented configuration changes for data models.    Environment: Python 2.7, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django 1.4.