Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Request Technology, LLC Austin, TX • Over 8+ years of progressive experience in requirements review, design, development, quality analysis and deployment of software products using PERL, Unix Shell, C, Python, Oracle PL/SQL and MySQL on UNIX environment.  • Extensive knowledge in Python, Java, MySQL, Oracle, Unix, Linux and in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Worked on all stages of Build & Release Management including analysis, design, development, testing and implementation.  • Experienced with Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, Pair RDD's, Spark YARN • Experience in using Spark-SQL with various data sources like JSON, Parquet and Hive.  • Developed dynamic frontend and backend applications using Python, Flask Frameworks.  • Develop E-Commerce application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ReactJS, SQL, Python and Flask.  • Hands on experience with UNIX commands.  • Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts and bash scripting.  • Good Knowledge on Python Scripting - Used data structures like tuples, lists, sets, dictionaries, object-oriented class-based inheritance features.  • Web development using Python, Django.  • Good knowledge on installation and compilation of different CPAN PERL modules for PERLupgrades.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL/cx_ORACLE connector and MySQL dB and ORACLE packages.  • Extensive experience in debugging and troubleshooting complicated production issues using tools like GDB and implemented corrective solutions.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark and Scala.  • Experienced in performance tuning of Spark Applications for setting right Batch Interval time, correct level of Parallelism and memory tuning.  • Developed unit tests for Django and Flask applications.  • Researched JavaScript frameworks to replace frontend of a Flask application and began implementing a React solution.  • Good knowledge on Hadoop Ecosystem components like Spark, HDFS, Map Reduce, Hive, Pig, Impala, Sqoop.  • Developed PySpark code using Python and Spark-SQL for faster testing and data processing.  • Cognitive about designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Highly skilled in deployment, data security and troubleshooting of the applications using AWS services.  • Experienced in implementing Organization DevOps strategy in various operating environments of Linux and windows servers along with cloud strategies of Amazon Web Services • Proficient in writing Cloud Formation Templates (CFT) in YAML and JSON format to build the AWS services with the paradigm of Infrastructure as a Code.  • Gained experience in deploying applications on to their respective environments using Elastic Beanstalk.  • Experienced with event-driven and scheduled AWS Lambda functions to trigger various AWS resources • Driven to architect Big Data solutions on multiple platforms using data analytics • Extensive knowledge in Python, PHP, MySQL, NoSQL, UNIX and Linux.  • Experience with Design, code, debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications • Experience of software development with Python and various libraries of Python, Python-twitter, Pandas, Data frame, MySQL dB for database connectivity), Regular expression, File IO etc.  • Skillful experience in Python by developing software's using new tools, libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, PySide, Python-twitter, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas data-frame, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to improvise software development process.  • Working with backend Python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server-side application Django.  • Good knowledge about frameworks such as Bootstrap and Foundation.  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with Python programming language.  • Good experience in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP.  • Expertise in AWS Resources like EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Security Groups.  • Worked with MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script, jQuery and JSON.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in using Caching applications for large scale applications like Memcached, Redis.  • Expertise in Production support. Provided first, second and third level support to different organizations. Used pdb, gdb and other debugging tools and deployed production hot fixes.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDEs using PyCharm, Spyder, NetBeans, PyStudio, PyScripter, Eric, Wing IDE and PyDev.  • Adept at automating repetitive work through Shell scripts and Python • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, PySpark, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, asyncio, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity) and IDEs -sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, pytest, Eclipse, emacs.  • Created internal diagnostic tools using Golang and AngularJS in order to assist with customer issues. Golang and Java were used as a backend REST service while AngularJS was used for the user interface.  • Developed responsive web product features using React JS, SASS, on Golang with REST.  • Built enterprise wide DNS historical data trending analysis tools in Go (Golang), Languages with REST API for user queries as microservice.  • Building a Command line tool to interact with RESTful API using in Golang.  • Worked on Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications and data processing automation using Python.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding and experience in analyzing and handling large database using Oracle Relational Data Architecture.  • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java Full stack web development using Python • Excellent Experience in Code Refactoring and Udeploy. Solid ability to code in JavaScript.  • Basic Knowledge on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Working experience with cloud infrastructure of AWS (Amazon Web Services) and computing AMI virtual machines on Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).  • Have experience with AWS LAMBDA which runs the code with response of events • Hands on experience with version control tools such as SVN, JIRA, GitHub, and GitLab.  • Experience on developing Chef Cookbook for the automation of software installation and configuration of customer infrastructures.  • Experience in maintaining and executing build scripts to automate development and production builds.  • Worked with Chef to aid with deployment process and migrating in house systems to Amazon Cloud Services.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Request Technology, LLC - Chicago, IL March 2018 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES: • Designed and developed the UI using ReactJs, HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures, functions to implement business logics in Oracle.  • Wrote python raw SQL queries to Django database agnostic for MySQL and Oracle database.  • Designed and developed GUI front-end applications using Oracle Forms for user interaction with the database.  • Created Django class-based REST API's for the application and serialized data.  • Wrote JavaScript form validations for all the web pages in the application.  • Implemented several Socket, TCP/IP, UDP, Twisted ZeroMq, XMLRPC programs to retrieve data from various data centers.  • Built python framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Wrote multiple Shell and Perl scripts for the automation of the unit testing.  • Created Test script in Perl/Unix from automation and Ran the Test and validated results.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Developed Spark code and Spark SQL/Streaming for faster testing and processing of data.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django.  • Developed a data pipeline using Kafka, HBase, Spark and Hive to ingest, transform and analyzing customer behavioral data also developed Spark jobs and Hive Jobs to summarize and transform data's and PHP.  • Used Spark for interactive queries, processing of streaming data and integration with popular NoSQL database for huge volume of data; and familiar with HDFS.  • Worked on build tasks using Maven, Ant, Gradle and GNU Make files and worked with development team to migrate Ant scripts to Maven. Worked as a full stack developer and designed and developed Groovy based web applications • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Developed backup and recovery engine for VM backup/recovery using VMware vSphere APIs, Golang programming language and RabbitMQ Message bus (communication interface).  • Used Go Programming Language (Golang)and Scala in the development of the application.  • Used GOLANG to log the different host system event and alert information to Cassandra database.  • Experience of the design patterns and best practices with Golang (and more) to start with design and get to deployable production systems including scale monitoring and instrumentation platform.  • Managed Linux and Windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 using Chef Server. Configured and monitored distributed and multi-platform servers using chef.  • Experience in core AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, EBS, Route53, VPC, Auto scaling etc.) and deployment services (Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, OpsWorks and Cloud Formation) and security practices (IAM, CloudWatch and Cloud trail).  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and Python libraries.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Published REST API's to fetch data from Elastic Search clusters for client-based applications to search assets and claims by multi-field indexes and Used Elastic Search for setting up the search cluster.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Built python frameworks using NumPy and Pandas for data analysis.  • Worked in Agile and scrum environment which includes daily standup and sprint planning.    Environment: Java, Django, Flask, XML, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, Mongo dB, SQL, Python 3.3, HTML5/CSS, Cassandra, JavaScript, PySpark,PyCharm, GIT, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, Docker, Jenkins, JIRA, jQuery, MySQL, AWS Sr. Python Developer Ranger Technical Resources - Boca Raton, FL May 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities: • Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Design / Implementation of pricing module (average swaps, basis swaps, swaptions, and caps/floors on commodity futures) in C++ • Developed C++ Trade Capture and Processing application which is a single unified platform for booking and tracking Credit derivatives like CDSI, Single Name CDS, and Index Tranches, etc. using network/socket programming and multithreading concepts.  • Experience in developing C++ services using web services architecture, SOAP, WSDL, and XML.  • Excellent knowledge of C++ templating, C++ 11, embedded systems design and developing macros, routines in C++.  • Developed Application that would allow transfer of log files from Linux (Debian) computer to Linux server using C++ multithreading environment. These log files are served using the web interface to any computer locally using C++ CGI and LAMP.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python and created data access modules in Python.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework and Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Python & Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange & business logic implementation between servers.  • Rewrote existing Python/Flask module to deliver certain format of data.  • Created script in python for calling REST APIs.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and implement CSS for better appearance and feel.  • Extensively used Python requests urllib and urllib2 module to call web services.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and implement CSS for better appearance and feel.  • Developing the Python automated scripting using Boto3 library for AWS Security audit and reporting using AWS Lambda for multiple AWS Accounts.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Analyzed various logs that are been generated and used various Python libraries to predict/forecast next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base, reducing the number of lines in code and duplication significantly.  • Query Optimization through MYSQL server tools for quick response time.  • Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL.  • Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client-side validation.  • Used jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  • Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, AngularJs, jQuery and REST Services • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  • Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, WSDL, NetBeans, JBOSS, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP. PYTHON DEVELOPER Beacon Hill Technologies - Wayne, PA September 2014 to 2016 RESPONSIBILITIES: • Wrote multiple Perl programs to generate configuration files from Oracle Database.  • Wrote Perl scripts to extract data from Oracle DB using Perl DBI module for Data analysis and report generation.  • Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery.  • Optimized the performance of complex SQL queries in Oracle reports as well as queries from the queries.  • Extensively worked with spark Data frames for ingesting data from flat files into RDD's to transform unstructured data and structured data.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Implemented secured way of Centralized login for AWS users using 389 Directory Services (LDAP) and OpenVPN.  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Interacted with the client end-users during requirements gathering sessions.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 2.7 and its familiar framework Django.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Worked on real time in memory distributed systems.  • Designed and developed transactions and persistence layers to save/retrieve/modify data for application functionalities using Django and PostgreSQL • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful, Webservices from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Experience in creating Docker containers leveraging existing Linux Containers and AMI's in addition to creating Docker containers from scratch.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Developed various API's for Django applications using Django-tasty pie.  • Used JIRA to build an environment for development.  • Wrote MapReduce code to make un-structured data into semi- structured data and loaded into Hive tables.  • Built complete Configuration Management for the Microservices using Kubernates, Docker and Ansible • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework by implementing MVC architecture.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python and also implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Creating RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Fixed bugs, providing production support, enhanced applications by improving code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Used object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Implemented and tested Python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and SQL Queries • Installed and configured builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Upgraded internal and customer TLS/SSL Apache Web Server configurations; trained staff on proper implementations, potential issues/concerns, and automated changes with Ansible • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management • Description Bluetooth enabled camcorder Embedded in a headset to enable hands-free audio and video recording with optical zoom capability.  • Developed Perl and Shell scripts for upload of data feed into database • Developed reports in Perl for our end users.  • Coded and debugged the stored Procedures, Packages and Views in Oracle Databases using SQL and PL/SQL, which were called by user-oriented application modules.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Executed FIX testing for Functional, End-to-End, and Regression testing for various system applications.  • Analyzed Business Requirement Document (BRD), Functional Specifications Document (FSD) and FIX client requirements to overall understand the project aim and discussed with BA emerged questions.    Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, AWS, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, Sublime Text, PyCharm, Jira, GIT, pybuilder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services, HTML5/CSS, XML, JSON, Ajax PYTHON DEVELOPER MRoads - Plano, TX May 2012 to August 2014 RESPONSIBILITIES: • Involved in reviewing and understanding the Business requirements.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis and developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Developed web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  • Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit, Selenium and Rational Function Tester.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Wrote Maven scripts for compiling, building, packaging and deploying the WAR file.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Developed methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Expertise in creating and developing applications for android operating system using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, SQLite, Java, XML, Android SDK and ADT plugin.  • Worked on Angular JS to augment browser applications with MVC capability.    Environment: Python, Angular, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, MySQL server, T-SQL, GIT, Reports, RESTful, Linux, JSON, AJAX. Doran Jones - New York, NY July 2010 to July 2010 Apl 2012  RESPONSIBILITIES: • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Used PyQuery for selecting Particular DOM elements when reading HTML.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection, Threads, XML, and integrating the modules.  • Developed Reporting framework using JAVA and J2EE which will generate daily, monthly and yearly reports and prepared different framework design documents.  • Created tables, views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL developer.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase • Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns such as Business Delegate, Session Facade, singleton in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Writing SOAP and RESTful web services, in house ESB for a web claims application (Spring MVC, Angular JS, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Build forge) • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL • Automated several processes by developing Python scripts • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, NodeJS, Underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS and Java Script.  • Experience in Mongo DB installation, Patching, troubleshooting, performance, tracking/tuning, back-up and recovery in dynamic environments.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and building table-free layouts.  • Developed Views and templates with python and using Django's view Controller and template language, Website interface is created.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, NodeJS, Angular JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, SOAP, NumPy, Restful API. Education Bachelor's Skills database (6 years), Django (6 years), Java (6 years), JavaScript. (6 years), MySQL (6 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C, C++, Python, JavaScript, PHP, XML, JAVA, SQL  SCM Tools Subversion, Jenkins/Hudson, Jira, TFS, Confluence, Clear Case, GIT, GitHub.    Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows, DOS, VMware  Python Web Frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask, web2Py.  Database Postgre SQL, SQL Server, MYSQL and Oracle  Application Servers Web logic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, Apache tomcat5.5, IIS  Development IDE PyCharm, Pydev Eclipse, Vim, Net beans, MS Visio, Sublime Text, Notepad++    Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall  Delivery tools Saltstack, Chef & Puppet