Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Arksway Technologies Pvt. Ltd Around 2.8 years of experience as a Web Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python. To serve the organization with the best of my technical skills and abilities by utilizing my educational and professional knowledge and competencies acquired by me in my academic career and Professional experience. Work Experience Python Developer Arksway Technologies Pvt. Ltd July 2016 to Present July 2016 - Till date  Snow Automation Platform helps us to make cost savings by automating manual processes. With the help of this platform we developed a new tool called Automatic Ticketing Tool.    Role: Python Developer  Brief intro on Automatic Ticketing Tool:  Automatic Ticketing Tool(ATT) will reduce the work to assign ticket manually. Automatic Ticketing Tool(ATT) will check for person who is able to work on it and it will assign the ticket to that person without any time delay. By using keywords it will check whether the ticket category is correct or not. If the ticket is categorized wrongly Automatic Ticketing Tool (ATT) will re-categorize it and will assign to the corresponding person.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed user-friendly application as per client need and industry best-practices.  ? Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Constantly engage with the clients in understanding the requirements and developing the solution for the same.  ? Designed and implemented low-latency, high-availability, and performant application.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the project and build reusable code and libraries for future use.    Skills:  ? Strong Knowledge in Python, Django Framework, MYSQL, HTML  ? Fast Learning  ? Willing to learn new technologies  ? Team management  ? Problem Solving ability Education Sri Narayana Junior College - Anantapur, AP, IN 2011 SSC Sri Balaji Vidyanikethan High School - Anantapur, AP, IN 2009 Additional Information Core Competencies:  ? Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python  ? Ability to successfully multitask and prioritize work.  ? Experienced in working with PyCharm, MySQL Workbench.  ? Proficient in SQL database MySQL  ? Strive for success and growth.