Job Seeker • Having 2+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django.  • Having very strong knowledge of Object-oriented (oops) software engineering methodologies.  • Built Web application using Python, Django, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML and template languages. Used Apache to deploy production site.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC and frameworks such as Django.  • Good understanding on String, List, Tuples, and Dictionary.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Atom, and Sublime Text.  • Very good knowledge on Regular Expressions, File Handling, Modules and Functions.  • Experience in developing User Interface using HTML.  • Extensively involved in developing web applications.  • Very Good knowledge in object-oriented concepts, Exceptional-Handling, Inheritance, Data structures.  • Good knowledge and work experience with MySQL.  • Manually performed Backend by writing SQL Queries.  • Extensively involved in developing web applications. Work Experience Ness Technologies July 2017 to Present Description:  V-Lay is an e-commerce project developed based on python platform. Through this site customer can do online shopping where he can have different options to purchase his/her products from different shops. This project consists of different retailers with their different products, so that customer can have different choices to select his/her product.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in front-end designing using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Designed the Web application Using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible and flexible.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models with the help of ORM like mysql.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, implementation and support based on the requirement.    Project # 2:-  Project Name: HIS (Health Information System)  Environment: python, Django, MySQL. python Developer Ness Technologies - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN April 2016 to Present Ness Technologies July 2016 to June 2017 Description:  HCIT is revolutionary integrated Hospital Management System providing comprehensive features in Healthcare Management and information System. HCIT provides the users complete control and confidentiality over patient's, Clinical, Inventory and Revenue information. HCIT allows the users to collect, store and extract patients movement, diagnosis and prescription history, inter department visits, out patients appointments, admissions, operation room schedule, pre-operation checklists etc. HCIT provides the user with information and hospital occupancy, bed utilization, consolidation of patient billings, performance analysis per doctor and statistical analysis in case paper histories through reports and form generator that can also be presented in graph and charts at a single click of a button.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in front-end designing using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Designed the Web application Using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible and flexible.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models with the help of ORM like mysql.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, implementation and support based on the requirement. Education B.E/B.TECH JNTU - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN Additional Information Skills    Web Technologies: Django, Bottle, Flask, MVC, MVT, MVP  Client side Technologies: HTML 5, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS  Databases: MySQL  IDE: IDLE, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse, Sublime Text  Application Servers: IIS 6.0/7.0, EC2  Reports: Crystal Report, Microsoft Excel, HTML  Software Development Methodology: TDD (Test Driven Development), MVC.  Others: Firebug, Unit Testing, CSS3