Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - JPMC New York, NY • 6+Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  • Experience working in Java, JavaScript, and Python software development environments.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience with creating scripts for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience in performing signal processing and machine learning algorithm development for a variety of programs.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extract.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, Emacs, Very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python.  • Utilized Python Pandas framework to provide data analysis and Applied HTML, HTML5, XML, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, and AJAX to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Very strong experience in writing API's and Web Services in Python, Good in process, validate, parse, and extract data from .xml file, Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu),SSH, Flask/Django.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects and Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD, Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Experienced with batch processing of data sources using Apache Spark.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer JPMC - New York, NY December 2015 to Present Description: Dovetail Payment Processing System (DPS) is a 3rd party vendor from whom JPMC has purchased the Dovetail Application (DT) in order to provide a single platform for all types of payments - Urgent & non-urgent, single and Bulk, High Value and Low Value. This application is called iPAY (International Payment system) that processes payments for all their international customers. iPAY mechanism enables their customers to initiate, receive Payments and acknowledgments across the globe to/from any other person in any country that has this service provided by JPMC. This Application uses various interfaces in order to process the payments from the "Initiator" (who initiated the Transaction) to the "Receiver" (who receives the Transaction).    Responsibilities:  • Gathered all requirements for developing and analyzing requirement of projects.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used SOAP and RESTful API for information extraction from various Banking applications.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python and portlet.  • Used several python libraries like wx Python, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Apache Cassandra.  • Deployment and Build of various environments including Linux and UNIX  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP Web servers in UNIX.  • Wrote SQL scripts in Ab-initio for Data analysis and used Tivoli/Autosys for automation of data extraction/reporting.  • Collaborate with Quality Analysis team to build and populated stage DB.  • Involved in UAT coordination with business Users.  • Involved in analyzing existing reports and converting into O2MS report server scripts.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.    Environment:  Python 3.3, PyQT, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, IPython, sqlalchemy, Django Tastypie. Sr. Python Developer Citi bank - New York, NY January 2013 to November 2014 Description: Citi bank is a global banking and financial services company offering financial products and services for corporate and institutional clients along with private and business clients. Services include sales, trading, research and origination of debt and equity; mergers and acquisitions (M&A); risk management products, such as derivatives, corporate finance, wealth management, retail banking, fund management, and transaction banking.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Web pages on the internet are generated by servers running LINUX.  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects/POJO to hold values between java classes and database fields.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Worked PHP as a server side scripting language, for web pages.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Worked on scripts for setting up the discovery client with attribute data. Worked on scripts(granite reference data scripts) for setting up adapter attributes in granite system.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used PHP to write dynamically generated pages quickly.  • Experienced Python on LINUX for execution.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, JAVA, PHP.. Python Developer San Jose, CA June 2011 to December 2012 Description: Vocera enables mobile communications services for hospitals that improve patient safety and satisfaction and increase hospital efficiency and productivity. Vocera provides secure, integrated and intelligent communication to instantly connect people in mobile, mission-critical environments. Vocera's secure voice and text applications keep hospital communication safe, improve efficiency and comply with HIPAA regulations.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki and backup the database.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)    • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python and portlet.    Environment: Python 3.0, Django 1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Bosch Designs - Novi, MI June 2009 to May 2011 Description: Bosch designs and produces precision automotive components and systems sold to vehicle and powertrain manufacturers worldwide. These include systems and components for gasoline and diesel injection, airbag components, ABS and conventional braking systems, telematics, as well as small motors, electrical and electronic equipment. Worked on development of Warranty and defects tracking system.    Responsibilities  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Design and Setting up of environment of Mongodb with shards and replicasets. (Dev/Test and Production).  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose and Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports and Modifying data using SAS/BASE, SAS/ MACROS, Extracting data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS data sets.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline and Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed, NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development. Framework based on CherryPy with GnuPg encryption (reGnuPg module) on the top and Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Perforce for the version control.    Environment: Python, Django, Java, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, MySQL, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS, Ab-Initio, Autosys, Linux, Apache, Unix/Linux. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.4/1.3, Flask, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL, Java/J2EE, PyJamas, Jython, IronPython, Cpython.  Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JSON, Jquery, Angular Js.  Database: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11g.  Operating systems: Windows XP, Win 7, 8.1, 10, Linux, OS X.  Methodologie: Agile, V Model, Waterfall, Hybrid.