Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Scripps Networks Interactive Knoxville, TN • Having 7 years of diverse professional experience in planning, designing, developing, Architecting and implementation in the area of Amazon Web Services Cloud, Python and IT industry.  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Django, Flask, Dojo, HTML, XML, Angular.JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Sound knowledge in spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  • Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora).  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Python web application frameworks.  • Experience on Jupyter Notebook.  • Extensive experience in developing PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, Cursors, Collections (Nested tables and Varrays), Records, Object types and Database Triggers.  • Worked on data migration, and data management to build high quality, automated migration systems for a large variety of workloads.  • Good knowledge on Cloud and Virtualization environments such as Azure, Aws, Google Cloud Engine.  • Good experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Intellij, Spyder, Jupyter Notebook, Anaconda and UBUNTU.  • Expertise in continuous integration and continuous deployment using build tools like Git, Ant, Maven, and Jenkins, Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Nagios, and Docker.  • Experience in network and routing protocols such as TCP/IP, BGP, OSPF, and EIGRP.  • Expertise in AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, Subnets, and NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web Applications and database templates.  • Hands on experience in migrating Business from a physical data center environment to AWS.  • Experienced in setting up EC2 instances, security groups and Setting up databases in AWS using S3bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Performed S3 buckets creation, policies on IAM role based polices, MFA and customizing the JSON template.  • Experienced with Python programming and Python libraries for data science included in the Anaconda distribution including NumPy, pandas.  • Provided support to Application and database team, troubleshoot issues encountered while providing support, contact AWS Support whenever necessary.  • Configured and automated various AWS services like EC2 and S3 using Boto ( python sdk).  • Develop AWS Cloud Formation templates (in JSON) to automate infrastructure deployments.  • Experience in Building S3 buckets and managed policies for S3 buckets and used S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Deploying application in Docker Container for custom environment and hosting in Elastic Beanstalk.  • Importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Experience in designing and configuring secure VPC through private and public networks in AWS.  • Troubleshoot AWS EC2 Status check including System Status checks and Instance Status check alerts.  • Used HTML5 Form Validation, Type and Attributes Restrictions to validate the client inputs.  • Experienced in setting up EC2 instances, security groups and Setting up databases in AWS using S3 bucket.  • Build scripts on AWS cloud for scheduling EC2 auto scaling load balancer with python SDK.  • Migrated SQL server Databases to new Azure cloud servers. Experience in Backup, Restoring and Moving of Databases; Configuring SQL Server Agent Jobs and designing Database Security.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment and Excel data extracts.  Sponsorship required to work in the US Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Scripps Networks Interactive January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the architectural design reviews, Analyzing, reviewing business, functional, high-level technical requirements, and migration process in agile environment.  • Designing and deploying scalable, highly available, and fault tolerant systems on AWS and developed programs using Python, Shell, Java Scripts and CI tools like Jenkins, Maven build tool and IAM roles, VPC subnets, NACL and SGs for EC2 instances and Restful API's developed for Node.JS applications.  • Configuring IAM roles for EC2 instances in ELB and assign them policies granting specific level access to S3 buckets by customizing JSON template designed Stacks using Amazon Cloud Formation templates to launch Infrastructure, Used Code Commit to host secure, scalable private Git repositories.  • Utilized the front-end technologies including HTML, CSS, JavaScript to layout the front-end pages.  • Utilized Python, Django, JQuery and Java etc. to design server applications and client interfaces.  • Launching Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Images (Linux/Ubuntu) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Managed continuous maintenance and troubleshooting of python Django projects.  • Build application and database servers using AWS EC2 and create AMIs as well as use RDS for Oracle DB.  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages for moving the data from staging area to data mart.  • Extensively used bulk collection in PL/SQL objects for improving the performing.  • Developed the ETL mappings in PL/SQL via packages, procedures, functions, views and triggers.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Worked on Amazon Kinesis to process and analyze streaming data with standard SQL.  • Worked on AWS services running in an environment for sensitive workloads and storing sensitive data.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Deployed applications on AWS by using Elastic Beanstalk.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, and S3 buckets, Virtual Private Clouds (VPC), Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask and PostgreSQL.  • Performance tuning by analyzing and comparing the turn around times between SQL and Cognos.  • Manage Elastic search clusters and PostgreSQL replication.  • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code checkout process.  • Utilized the front-end technologies including HTML, CSS, JavaScript to layout the front-end pages.  • Configuring the check for monitoring the devices like web servers, routers, modems, switches, firewalls, application servers, load balancers and other servers.  • Experienced in using advanced PostgreSQL/MYSQL features like table partitioning and different types of oracle indexing. Backup and Restore experience with PostgreSQL/MYSQL database backups and point in time recovery.  • Implementing and controlling the flow of data to and from AWS.  • Written scripts in Python, Perl, Java to automate log rotation of multiple logs from web servers and for automation and monitoring of AWS services like VPC, ELB, RDS, Lambda, AWS OpsWorks, Cloud Front using Shell and Python scripts and Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plugin to deploy.  • Designed and implemented a snowflake -schema Data Warehouse in SQL Server.  • Developing modules in python and performing CRUD operations in MongoDB.  • Deployed and configured Git repositories with branching, tagging, and notifications.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML and JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Migrate on premise database to AWS Cloud and also designed, built, and deployed a multitude applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, R53, S3, RDS, SNS, and IAM), by focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Provisioned Lambda for RDS instances for event based calls to MySQL DB those configured with VPC.    Environment: AWS (EC2, S3, Cloud Watch, RDS, ECS, Lambda, Elastic ache, IAM), Python 3.x, Django, Shell, Jenkins, Maven, Ansible, GitHub, CloudTrail, DB2, Flask, Django MS Access, Tomcat, Route 53, Apache, IIS. UNIX, Linux, HP-UX, Solaris, and Windows NT/2000/XP, Ubuntu. Python Developer Discovery TN October 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC of the project and Started with the preparation, architecting of the high level and detailed design documents and VPC is created for instances using Subnets alongside SGs and Network ACLs on UNIX/ LINUX OS in Agile environments.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Worked on Amazon Kinesis Streams to collect and process large streams of data records.  • Managing and troubleshooting of Python Django and Flask projects.  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, Cloud Formation.  • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  • Worked with networking team in understanding the limitations of firewall, domain controllers, load balancers and switches.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Worked on Cloud automation using AWS Cloud Formation templates.  • Implemented build stage- to build the Micro Service architecture and push the Docker container image to the private Docker registry and Images that are custom built are stored for future use.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Created scripts for system administration using languages such as BASH, Python and Python scripts to automate Cron jobs, system maintenance. Jenkins, Maven for automation.  • Created outstanding 'MySQL failover' Linux OS bash scripts encapsulating logic of failover in the -execute-before option, performed masterpiece tuning of various SQL queries after analyzing join costs.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Build application and database servers using AWS EC2 and create AMIs as well as use RDS for Oracle DB.  • Experience to build CI/CD Pipeline to automate the code release process using Integration tools like Git/SVN, GitHub, Jenkins, Maven and artifact repo.  • Set up and maintain continuous automated build system with Jenkins, ClearCase and Perl/ Python, Bash scripting and security for instances through VPC, Subnets along with SGs, ELB for critical instances.  Environment: Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, JSON, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, agile, Restfull, UNIX and Windows. Python Developer SPRD Analytics - IN June 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked on XML documents based on XML Schema definition (XSD) with python scripts to load the data into the database.  • Created database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web based application.  • Created outstanding 'MySQL failover' Linux OS bash scripts encapsulating logic of failover in the -execute-before option, performed masterpiece tuning of various SQL queries after analyzing join costs.  • Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package  • Created and executed test plans using PyUnit.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Extremely used plain JavaScript library to do the client side validations.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Utilized various IDE's and internal debug tools during debugging.  • Used Pandas ( Python library) for Statistical Analysis.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python 2.7, \o, Java Script, HTML5, XHTML, JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS3, MySQL, Flask.  Python Developer  Chargeback 360, INDIA  April 2012 to June 2013  Responsibilities:  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool and working with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Involved in writing SQL queries implementing functions, triggers, cursors, object types, sequences, indexes etc.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Involved in development of RESTful Web Services for getting and sending data from the external interface in the JSON format.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Responsible for debugging, testing, maintaining and deploying the application.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Jira for defect tracking and project management.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options. Python Developer SJS Technologies January 2010 to March 2012 Environment: Python 2.7, Django, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Oracle 11.2, Linux, Django, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server.  Python Developer  SJS Technologies, INDIA  January 2010 to March 2012  Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML, BIG DATA to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, Web Server Gateway Interface (WSGI) and SQL internal admin tools behave Behavior-driven development (BDD).  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, Data Feeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, webbapp2, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT, urllib, urllib2, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API. Education Bachelor's in Computer science JNTU Skills JAVA (7 years), LINUX (7 years), MYSQL (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), SQL (7 years), Django, AWS, C, Javascript, Flask Additional Information Skills  JAVA (6 years), LINUX (6 years), MYSQL (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), SQL (6 years)    Technical skills:  Cloud Environment  Amazon Web Services: EC2, S3, ELB, auto scaling Servers, Glacier, Storage Lifecycle rules, Elastic Beanstalk, Cloud Front, Elastic ache, RDS, VPC, Direct Connect, kinesis, Route 53, Red Shift, Cloud watch, Cloud trail, IAM Roles), Terraform.    Source Control Tools CVS, GIT, Subversion and GITHUB.  Web Technologies JSP, XML, XSD, XPATH, XSLT.  Operating System  [ ] IBMAIX(4.3/5.x), HPUX11iV1, V2&V3, [ ] Ubuntu14, [ ]    Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g and MySQL, DB2, SQL Server.  Language(s) Python, Java, J2EE, C, C++, XML, UML, WSDL.  Web/Application Servers IBM Web sphere 6.x, Apache Web Server 2.0, Apache Tomcat 6.0, Sun ONE Web Server 6.0 & IIS Web Server 4.0/5.0, web logic.  Network Protocols TCP/IP, Subnets, FTP, SMTP, UDP, ICMP, HTTP/HTTPS, NDS, DHCP, NFS, Cisco Routers, LAN.  Testing SOAP UI, Unit, Integration.  IAAS Providers AWS, Open stack, Cloud watch  Build/CI, CM tools ANT, MAVEN, JENKINS, Bamboo, HUDSON, CHEF, PUPPET, Ansible.