Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Altegrity Brentwood, TN • 7 + years of experience in the field of software development. Proficient in developing applications using Python, Java and C++.  • Experience in IT industry with proficiency in Analysis, Design & Development Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development using, Python, Django, Flask and SQL projects.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  • Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience with Cloud Services like Heroku, Google App Engine, Amazon AWS, EC2, S3 etc.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and PySpark.  • Having knowledge of Ansible to document all infrastructures into version control.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and C++.  • Experienced in using Python, Django, PHP, C++, CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, Redis, jQuery, XML, AJAX and JSON for developing web applications.  • Experienced in HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.JS, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Experienced with JSON based Restful web services, and XML based SOAP web services.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Experienced in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy&bottlePy framework.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and Postgre SQL database.  • Experience in developing ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Experienced in designing configuration, and deployment of Amazon Web Services (AWS) for applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, SQS, IAM), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling. Experienced in writing and developing scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell scripting.  • Experience in Designing and development of web crawler in python using Scrappy framework and using RabbitMQ as a messaging server between the micro services.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experience in Base SAS, SAS/Macros, SAS/SQL, SAS/Stat, SAS/Connect, SAS/Access, SAS/Graph, SAS/ODS, SAS/EBI, SAS/Grid, SAS Visualizer, SAS/ETS and SPSS modeler.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Experienced to work on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results and having strong experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  • Experience in working Asynchronous Frameworks like NodeJS, Twisted and designing the automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test Driven Development (TDD), Load Testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Altegrity - Nashville, TN April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Performed Systems Analysis and detail application design.  • Developed multiple Database Plugins for Cassandra, MySQL, Oracle, MySQL.  • Written code in python to extract data from one database to another database.  • Implemented threshold points to secure the code to crash free run environment.  • Worked with Flask and pandas to monitor, migrate and develop table database.  • Implemented SQL scripts and quarries in Python code to work with various databases and data sources.  • Worked with AWS in different servers to implement and test the code and develop a database.  • Used AWS EC2, REDSHIFT, DEVBOX, DBA and implemented various work environment.  • Performed data migration and data filter from various data sources and build different databases to store the Raw data and filtered Data.  • Manage the configurations of multiple servers using Ansible.  • Created database using MySQL and wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Deployed mircoservices2, including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible Playbooks.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Developed Job dashboard monitor UI using Django/Flask.  • Develop REST API and integrated with cloud products like AWS REST API gateway and AWS lambda.  • Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python.  • Utilizing MEAN stack (MongoDB/AngularJS) and JSON for data transfer and technologies related to server-side scripting.  • Develop remote integration with third party platforms by using Restful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Held overall responsibility of coordination of implementations of software builds and releases.  • Implemented Restful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy their code using GitHub Jenkins, Nexus and Ansible.  • Built the release plan roadmap and keep maintained for communication.  • Work on dns tables to map the website to its IP address and mapped them to AWS Route 53.  • Developed Application logic using Python and Django framework.  • Worked on developing Restful endpoints to cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like REDIS and exposed them with Restful endpoints.  • Wrote backend data access Logic using MYSQL and SQL Server.  • Designed and implemented a distributed, QA infrastructure for automated testing of a multi process software product.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Use JavaScript and Bootstrap for page usefulness popup screens, Sale and discount tags for the products.  • Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed single page application by using AngularJS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS.  • Developed python scripts to migrate information from Oracle to MongoDB.  • Designed and built a reporting module that uses Apache Spark SQL to fetch and generate reports.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring framework using Django and used Django Database API's to access database objects.    Environment: Python, Django, Flask, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Microservices, Windows, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX, Bootstrap, Git, GitHub, PySpark, Linux, Shell Scripting, Apache Spark, Ansible, AWS, Mongo DB, Maven, Jenkins. Python Developer Costco - Issaquah, WA January 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Expertise in Python and Django Framework to develop application.  • Created REST Webservices for the management of data using Apache CXF.  • Worked on Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  • Made use of advanced python packages like NumPy, SciPy for various sophisticated numerical and scientific calculations.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Designed and Developed REST Webservices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication.  • Designed and Developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2 & Used NetBeans IDE to develop the application.  • Implemented Docker containers to create images of the applications and dynamically provision slaves to Jenkins CI/CD pipelines.  • Developed Hadoop integrations for data ingestion, data mapping and data processing.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Responsible design and development of user portal using Ruby on Rails framework.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Apache Struts Framework & Experience in Python open stack API's.  • Worked with Rational ClearCase to provide sophisticated version control, workspace management and parallel development support. Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  • Used Pandas datamining library for statistics Analysis &NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Extensive Experience in deploying, managing and developing Oracle SQL developer clusters.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Built various graphs using Matplotlib package which helped in taking business decisions.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Worked on automation using the Python scripting language, Git on Cygwin and XML.  • Developed ETL code using Oracle, PL/SQL stored procedures and functions to filter and migrate an entire operating companies Data Warehouse.  • Worked on monitoring tools like Nagios, Zabbix, AWS Cloud Watch to health check the various deployed resources and services.  • Created cloud service using AWS, managed Virtual machines and websites using AWS-EC2, ELB, Autoscaling, Lambda.  • Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.    Environment: Python, Django, Oracle, Linux, REST, PyChecker, PyCharm, Sublime, HTML, jinja2, SASS, Bootstrap, Java script, jQuery, JSON, Shell scripting, GIT. Python Developer PayPal - San Jose, CA November 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Built the foundation, with all top Drupal modules including the development modules to assist developers.  • Setting up Drupal environment from Scratch for the entire development team.  • Implemented SEO based Drupal modules optimizing the search function all over the site.  • Developed Custom module using Drupal form API as a multistep form for app creation workflow.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Involved in writing unit test cases for the functionalities using Nose Test.  • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Assisted with the addition of Hadoop processing to the IT infrastructure.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Responsible for all client-side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection Angular.JS.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and proxy.  • Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  • Involved in presenting demos to the clients and reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager.  • Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Involved in deploying the code into Amazon Web Server using BOTO API.  • Manage run-time configuration, processes, scaling, backup and recovery, monitoring, and performance tuning for production MongoDB instances.  • Used embedded python to interface code like convert data values from C to Python; Perform a function call to a python interface routine using the converted values and convert the data values from the call from python to C.  • Expertise in configuration management automation tools such as Chef, Puppet and Salt.  • Responsible for specialization areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation.  • Automated the cloud deployments using chef, Python (boto& fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  • Built a comprehensive PERL script, which would call the required ANT scripts and notify the build distribution team in case of Build errors or Completion of the builds.  • Using Linux/Unix, Shell scripts, SQL Server, CA/Autosys batch, ITIL, ITSM, Change and Release Management.  Environment: Python, Django, Meteor Framework, Angular.JS Java Script, Coffee Scripting, LESS, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, NoSQL, MongoDB, PySpark, Hadoop Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, MYSQL, LAMP, PUPPET and CHEF. Python Developer ACCENTURE - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2012 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks and used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds and supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  • Embedded LINUX project requiring an experienced lead developer to build an embedded development platform for the company's new POS-07 product then implement the same across the entire development team and fix what was a list of outstanding bugs from a previous development effort.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Developed applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Worked with HTML, CSS and JavaScript in developing web applications.  • Used the continuous integration(CID) tool Jenkins for automating the build processes.  • Implemented a continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub, whenever a new GitHub branches are created Jenkins automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and Sqlalchemy.  • Used REST and SOAPUI for testing web service for server-side changes.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Developed dynamic web pages to view the reports generated using Django Framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working with new code.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the version Control.  • Created use-case scenarios and storyboards in MS Word and MS PowerPoint for better visualization of the application.  • Involved in development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Developed UI views using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, CSS floats, cross browser compatibility and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing & Used SVN for the version control.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Debugging the failure issues by capturing the array and register dumps using Python scripts, traces and performing several experiments by interacting with the design team.  • Development of several Python APIs and harassers that works both in Linux and windows and maintaining them using the revision control SVN.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), MYSQL (6 years), SQL (6 years), LINUX (6 years), Javascript, Flask, Java, C, AWS Additional Information • Programming Languages: Python, JavaScript, Java, C/C++, android.  • Frameworks: Django, pyramid, Flask, Spring, Hibernate, AngularJS.  • Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, Servlet, JSP, JSON, AJAX, SAAS  • Web Services: REST, SOAP, WSDL.  • Databases: MYSQL, PostgreSQL, MS SQL, MongoDB, SQLite, Oracle  • Software/IDE: Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse, Android Studio, NetBeans, MS Visio, Notepad++.  • Operating System: Mac OS, Windows, Linux.  • Software Management: GIT, SVN, Maven, Gradle, CVS. AWS  • Compute: EC2, elastic beanstalk, LightSail and lambda.  • Security & compliance: IAM and KMS  • Storage Services: S3 and glacier and AWS Storage Gateway  • networking: VPC and Route 53.