Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Bank of America, New Jersey New Jersey • Around 8 years of experience in developing, designing and implementing applications as developer using OOPS programming and Database.  • Experience in Software Life Cycle Methodologies (SDLC) like waterfall, agile in various domains.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, and APIs.  • Worked on different Python modules like NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, PyTables, and Pickle.  • Experience in development using IDEs like Eclipse, NetBeans, PyCharm and IntelliJ.  • Experience in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Framework, jQuery, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites.  • Hands on experience in configuring and supporting site-to-site and remote access Cisco, IPsec, VPN solutions using ASA/PIX firewalls, Cisco and VPN client.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like Html CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in developing Restful service using Python and Flask framework.  • Experience in AWS like using Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service (S3) and Amazon SQS.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced with databases using ORM/DOM for integrating with MySQL, PostgreSQL, and MongoDB.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, GitHub, JIRA and Jenkins.  • Experience in creating the batch files for automation.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals.  • Ability to learn new technologies and avid knowledge hunter with excellent communication skills, strong architectural skills, hardworking and a good team worker. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Bank of America, New Jersey June 2017 to Present Description: Bank of America is the second largest bank in U.S which provides investment and financial services around the world.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the server module and resolved issues and responsible for its enhancements.  • Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and for front-end application used React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for the database.  • Worked on Python libraries such as NumPy, requests, Pandas, Json and BeautifulSoup4  • Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries.  • Defined different Django API profiling techniques for faster rendering information.  • Used Ansible, Vagrant, and Docker for managing the application environments.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, working with the React States and Events.  • Developed Restful Microservices using Django and deployed on AWS servers using EC2.  • Documented Restful API's using swagger for internal and third party.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used CircleCI for continuous integration and delivery platform over Git.  • Used Django Migrations for designing and expanding of the database.  • Automated most of the python scripts by creating batch files running from Task scheduler.  • Involved in the CI/CD pipeline management for managing the weekly releases.  • Worked on JIRA to manage the tasks and to improve the individual performance.  Environment: Python 2.7/3.3, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, jQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server, GitHub, Ansible, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, Amazon Web Service (AWS), S3, EC2, EBS, PyCharm, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. Python Developer Citadel LLC - Chicago, IL November 2015 to June 2017 Description: Citadel is an American global financial institution which operates businesses as asset managers and for securities.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Built Web application using Python, Django, HTML and template languages.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed tools using Python, PHP, Shell scripting to automate.  • Experienced in Application Development and Object-Oriented Programming Analysis and design.  • Responsible in Working with various Python integrated development environments like PyCharm.  • Worked on databases like SQL Server, MySQL, and Oracle.  • Experienced in working with Object Oriented Programming using Python language.  • Strong knowledge in TCP/IP, UDP/IP, Active Directory Infrastructure, DNS, DHCP.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Experienced in Microsoft Azure cloud platform and merge with python.  • Implemented and tested python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Worked on Firewall tickets to deal with low, medium and high priority issues.  • Addition/ Deletion of Firewall Rules, Reviewing and Processing the ticket, Firewall Clean up, Virtual Servers, Certificate Creation/Renewals, Troubleshooting.  • Support projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and created a pipeline for the sequence of stages.  • Consumed Rest based Microservices on Restful API's and designed and tested jQuery, HTML, CSS that meets the web browser standards.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Worked on automating batch files to get the user data from the database on regular basis and to export the SQL query results to a text files for reports.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Python, Django, PyCharm, Idle, SQL Server, IIS, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse, Scala, PHP, Perl, ETL, firewalls. Python Developer Catholic Health Initiatives - Lincoln, NE August 2013 to November 2015 Description: Catholic Health Initiatives is a global health service company with millions of customers around the world. We're on a mission to improve our customers' health, well-being, and sense of security with the power of preventive care.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project.  • Developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python and designed test cases.  • Developed Python scripts using various libraries such as Matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL for database connectivity, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, and network.  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML&CSS, Bootstrap, and jQuery.  • Used Python with OpenStack, Open ERP, SQLAlchemy, Django CMS.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Created and populated digital brochures using Page Turn Pro and built photo galleries on website in the Django CMS and Django CMS plugin.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed content population and deployments through Django CMS.  • Experienced in designing and developing interactive User Interfaces, usability, web and client/server applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Installed new Web Agents on Unix Apache servers and Windows IIS servers for implementing SSO for new applications.  • Experienced in using Content Management Systems; WordPress and Django CMS plugins.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications and performed unit testing with JavaScript and Node.js.  • Designed, developed and tested Html CSS, jQuery and React that meets accessibility and web browser standards.  Environment: Python, Django, Linux, Eclipse, PyCharm, Simple Sign On (SSO) server, database access, Django-CMS plugins, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Agile. Jr. Python Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL May 2011 to August 2013 Description: United Airlines is one of the leading airline companies. It acquires, analyzes information to provide satisfaction for the passengers by computerizing records, providing quality services and responsibilities. The project is to build the self-service business term search engine for the next generation data management.  Responsibilities:  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python.  • Developed user interface and built reusable components and used different React.  • Developed the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Used MongoDB stores data as documents in a binary representation.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Developed views and templates with Python view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Involved in developing Restful Micro Services using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Involved in the lifecycle of the projects including design, development, and deployment testing, implementation and support.  Environment: Python, JavaScript, Django Framework, Java, CSS, SQL, MySQL, React, Lambda, Adobe Dreamweaver, MongoDB, AWS S3, Lambda, Visual Studio. Education Bachelor's Skills AWS (6 years), CSS (8 years), Django (8 years), MySQL (8 years), Python (8 years)