Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Humana Louisville, KY • Over 7 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript,  • Experience in scripting languages such as Perl, Groovy, VB Script, Ruby, Shell Script, batch script, Python, asp etc.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, Redhat Linux, Fedora).  • Working knowledge audio and video wiring and signal transfer  • Worked on Cloud platforms like ACQUIA Suite including Cloud, DevDesktop, and SiteFactory  • Experienced with the Scala, Spark improving the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Pair RDD's, Spark YARN.  • Experience in OOPerl, Perl Templates, Ruby on Rails, Groovy for generating rich web applications  • Experience with v-model designing, involved in the Integration, Test, Verification stage Proficient in all cycles of test life cycle from test planning to defect tracking and managing defect lifecycle.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Good experience in Python,Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience in Cloud computing window Azure(AWS).  • Collaborated with SaaS teams on AWS cost optimization projects  • Automation experience using Selenium IDE/RC/ Web Driver and TestNG frameworks  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Expertise in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL, multithreading, data structures and design patterns. Experienced with Python frameworks likeWebapp2 and, Flask.  • Experience in developing mobile applications in hybrid and native platforms which includes Cordova, and Xamarin  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD) and Load Testing.  • Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies.  • Created UNIX shell scripts to run the Informatica workflows and controlling the ETL flow  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD. Strong proficiency in version control systems like SVN, Git.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Well versed in writing unit test cases and selenium test cases..  • Received Mozilla badge- 'International Certified Embedded Systems with ARM Cortex M3 Engineer' in affiliation with Robotics and Computer Applications Institute, Caltech, USA and IIT, Bombay  • Experience with JSP Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat. Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule. Created and maintained effective budgets.  • Highly motivated, result oriented professional with a short learning curve and strong communication skills.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Humana - Louisville, KY July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Build all database mapping classes using FLASK models.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web based solution  • Extensive experience in implementing Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (using Jenkins) in an AWS Environment  • Created Test plans. Worked on SQL scripts to load data in the tables.  • Worked with prospects to understand their pain points and introduce how ACQUIA and our platform can reduce their efforts and maximize their revenue  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Coding groovy, domain class to handle the business logic  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on FLASK Framework.  • Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Jinja and Angular.js.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Resposible for migrating spring/resources.groovy 2.1 to 3.2.5  • Expert knowledge of mobile application development along with various patterns native, web and hybrid concept  • Experiance in using bitbucket  • Involved in business logic discussions and use case design.  • Reviewed product requirement documents, functional specifications, and involved in developing test strategy, test plan and test case documents  • Experience in Selenium Automation using Selenium Web Driver, Java and Unit test Framework.  • Created Selenium web-driver automation scripts using Python to validate functionality on various browsers  • Very good understanding of Microsoft Azure cloud platform. Experience with managing cloud delivery platforms, Azure/AWs  • Established framework to setup Continuous Integration environment using Jenkins, Nexus.  • Extensive experience in implementing Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (using Jenkins) in an AWS Environment  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Created Data tables utilizing MySQL utilized Jinja to access data and display it in the front end.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Involved in developing selenium automation framework using TestNG. Developed Maven targets to execute automation suites from command line  • Assembled and delivered weekly, monthly, and quarterly success and blocker metrics for 3 products: ACQUIA Pipelines, DevDesktop, & ACQUIA Lightning  • Worked on AWS Cloud and Created instances in EC2  • Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated with the releases.  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, TestNG.  • Strong knowledge of all phases of SDLC and Strong working knowledge of Software testing (Functional Testing, Regression Testing, Load Testing).  • Experienced in designing Test Plans and Test Cases, Verifying and Validating Web based applications  • Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Subversion (SVN).  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Organized the scrum, timetables, and deliverables for the company's Mother of All Demos, a major presentation held for top ACQUIA customers  • Performed testing with RSpec, FactoryGirl, Capybara, and Selenium. Performed Continuous  • Integration with Jenkins.    Environment: Python, PyCharm, Selenium IDE, Perl, Groovy, JQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Web Services, Pandas, JSON, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Jinja, Flask, MongoDB, SQL Workbench. Python Developer American Family - Madison, WI April 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python, Java, Bash script and Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey and Java Script  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • Verifies proper functionality and routing of all video, audio and control signals and all mechanically- and physically-controlled devices.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Involved in Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Performed Data driven testing using Selenium and TestNG functions which reads data from property and XML files and Performed Continuous integration automation using Jenkins  • Created Test Scripts in SOAP UI for Testing Web Services  • Responsible for designing, planning, installing and maintaining audio-visual (AV) systems and video conference technologies in the UTMB system.  • Handled various Ruby API's REST, Sinatra, AWS Administered legacy PHP and Ruby on Rails 3.2 applications  • Utilized PyUnit the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Communicated with Off-Shore team and played a key role in discussing about the mobile application  • Contributed in developing Automation Framework that uses Java, Selenium Web Driver and TestNG  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Identified, documented and reported bugs, errors, interoperability flaws and other issues within proprietary software applications developed for Amf Company's global user base.  • Built Continuous Integration environment (Jenkins, Nexus) and Continuous delivery environment (puppet).  • Achieved 100% coverage of of user slice Ruby codebase by writing unit tests with RSpec and Capybara.  • Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure  • Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates  • Worked on migrating MapReduce python programs into Spark transformations using Spark and Scala.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  • Implemented Automated Application Deployment using Puppet.  • Created shell scripts to fine tune the ETL flow of the Informatica workflows.  • Implemented Junit test runner class to call test cases in Cucumber.  • Involved in designing the logical flow for both Mobile and Web Applications for different components  • Exploring with the Spark improving the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, and Pair RDD's  • Used Quick Test Pro extensively to automate testing the functionalities of the application and used the scripts for Regression Testing.  • Working closely with Web Administrators to understand, participate, and experience the technical architect for web sites such as Apache, Web Sphere; and deploying J2EE Applications to these environments.  • Developed ETL programs using Informatica to implement the business requirements.  • Recommended build management, defect management development process flow. Administrator of SVN.  • Involved in editing the existing ANT/MAVEN files in case of errors or changes in the project requirements  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.5, Groovy, Selenium IDE, MySQL, ETL, Zope, Angular.JS, Pandas, Flash, PyUnit, Open Stack, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Jira, Linux, Git, Cassandra, Windows, Linux. Python Developer Sears Holdings January 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript(JQuery).  • Built application logic using Python, used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Description Bluetooth enabled camcorder Embedded in a headset to enable hands-free audio and video recording with optical zoom capability.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Created Data tables to display customer information and add, delete, update customer records using Python, MySQL and XHTML.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Written queries in HQL and Native SQL and criteria API.  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view utilizing Python based GUI components.  • Implemented marshalling and UN marshalling XML to HTML and HTML to XML.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Actively participated in System Testing, production support and maintenance/patch deployments.  • Worked on RUP development environment and used Rational ClearCase for versioning.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle 9i SQL, PL/SQL.  • Developed test cases using Python unit test, pylint and nose.    Environment: Python, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, PyQT, PyUnit, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Python Developer Ann Taylor September 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on requirement gathering and High level design.  • Set up tare down of conference related audio & videoharfware and software gear applications  • Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI development.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python and MSQL.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Used Thales theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Contributed patches back to Django.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Used several Python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.6, Scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, JASPER, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (7 years), JAVA (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), jQuery (7 years), PYTHON (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django 1.3/1.4/1.5  Databases MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g, Siebel  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, CVS  IDE Eclipse, My Eclipse, PyCharm, RAD  Web servers Apache, IIS  Debugging tools Selenium, IDE  NO SQL MongoDB, Cassandra  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista, Mac OSX  Cloud Technologies AWS, OpenStack