Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Spring Bank Chicago, IL ? 5 years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, Flask client-server technologies based applications, RESTful services, AWS, C, C++, JAVA and SQL.  ? Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)-Waterfall, agile Process across various workflows (Requirement study, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance) in Web & Client/Server application development.  ? Extensive experience in developing web applications using Python, Django, Flask frameworks.  ? Experience in working with several python libraries including Beautiful soup, NumPy, matplotlib, SciPy, PyQt, Scapy, SQLAlchemy.  ? Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 web application frameworks, with good understanding of Django ORM and SQLAlchemy.  ? Hands-on experience with industry-standard IDEs like PyCharm, Sublime, NetBeans.  ? Extensive experience in developing applications by implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, and various Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Good experience in Shell Scripting, Oracle RDBMS, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  ? Good knowledge of TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSH and SSL protocols.  ? Expert at version control systems like Git, SVN and CVS, Migrated repos from svn to Github.  ? Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MSSQL Server.  ? Experience with source code testing frameworks like JUnit, PyUnit.  ? Good experience in working with Amazon Web Services (AWS) like AWS EC2, S3, VPC, SES, ELB, EBS, RDS, Glacier, DynamoDB etc.  ? Good knowledge on C, C++ languages including threads, templates, Polymorphism and OO concepts.  ? Experience in using XML, SOAP, REST web Service for inter operable software applications.  ? Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla.  ? Experience in Agile development processes ensuring rapid and highquality software delivery  ? Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines. Work Experience Python Developer Spring Bank - Brookfield, WI March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Made use of advanced python packages like NumPy, Scipy for various sophisticated numerical and scientific calculations.  ? Used Angular.JS built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  ? Created Angular.JS controllers, services and used Angular.JS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  ? Utilized Python specific tools including Django, Django Rest Framework, Django ORM, Flask, SQLAlchemy, Pandas, Numpy.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Using GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.  Environment: Python, Django, PYQT, Java, XML, JQuery, DOM, JSON, Numpy, Pandas, Angula JS, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, Rest, GIT, MY SQL, Windows and LINUX. Python Developer Constellation Brands - Chicago, IL May 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Developed and designed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to interact with company's website.  ? Successfully implemented Django framework (including Tastypie) to design server applications.  ? Wrote Python code and actively participated in the procedure to automate processes.  ? Build and test functionality within a production pipeline.  ? Implemented Python code to fix bugs and provides upgrades to existing functionality.  ? Provided fault isolation and root cause analysis for technical problems.  ? Highly efficient in handling multi-tasking issues in a fast paced environment.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  ? Worked on several python packages like Matpoltlib, Pillow, Numpy, SQL Alchemy, and sockets.  ? Used Pandas datamining library for statistics Analysis & NumPy for Numerical analysis.  ? Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Twitter Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  ? Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python, Django, PYQt, Python SDK, AWS, Flash, PHP, Numpy, Pandas, PyQuery, DOM, Bootstrap, XML, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Git Hub, MySQL, LINUX. Python Developer Hanway Insurance - Chicago, IL February 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage and Node.js for server-side interaction.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec.  ? Involved in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  ? Deployed the project into WebLogic using GIT version control system.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  ? Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, Node.js, JavaScript, Jira, Git, Google Analytics, CRUD, Pyramid, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, jQuery, Web Services (Soap, Restful), PyUnit. Python Developer Tetrasoft - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  ? UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  ? Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Use Git for version control.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Trained users and did production support.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills Javascript