Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - GOGO Aviation Broomfield, CO ? I have 9 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python.  ? Experience in analysis, design, and development, testing, implementation and maintenance of various web applications using Python and Django.  ? Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  ? Experienced with full Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, Object Oriented Programming, Database Design and Agile Methodologies.  ? Experience with Requests, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  ? Experience with automation/configuration management using tools like Ansible, Puppet,Chef and SaltStack.  ? Knowledge on Open Stack Environment Implementation and the architecture using API to integrate between multiple utilities (storage, Monitoring, computing, Authentication & Authorization.  ? Experience working with notebook technologies like Jupyter and open Source distribution Anaconda.  ? Worked with python libraries from Python Package Index (PyPI).  ? Experience with Jenkins and Enterprise GitHub. Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  ? Good Experience in Tableau Analytics. Build Dashboards for clients using Tableau.  ? Experience in end to end design and deploy rich Graphic visualizations with Drill Down and Drop down menu option and Parameterized using Tableau.  ? Worked on Loading and transforming large sets of structured, semi structured and unstructured data using Hadoop, Bigdata concepts.  ? Proficient in SQL databases MSSQL Server, MySQL (RDBMS), Oracle DB, Postgres and MongoDB.  ? Working experience on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS) Such as EC2, Lambda, ELB,SQS(Queuing Services), VPC and cloud watch.  ? Working knowledge on Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  ? Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Basic understanding of protocols/technologies like HTTP, LDAP, JDBC, SSL, Servlet/JSP, SQL, HTML, XML  ? Knowledge in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool).  ? Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment.  ? Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  ? Familiar with Agile and Waterfall development methodologies. Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.  ? Hands on experience with Agile project management tools such as JIRA, Version One  ? Installed, setup, and configured Cisco switches for TCP/IP intra-network and wireless access point across the network for the local area network and Wi-Fi.  ? Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu Linux and UNIX. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer GOGO Aviation - Broomfield, CO April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  ? Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  ? Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  ? Version control using GITHub.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python 3.5/2.7, Django, AWS, Java, API, Flask, Numpy, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Shire - Lexington, MA December 2014 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Developed data analytic tools using Python Pandas, and visualizations using Matplotlib and Bokeh.  ? Worked on CRUD permissions using MySQL and presented them with the beautiful wxPython widgets.  ? Created new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development.  ? Worked on various Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Anaconda Spyder.  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy, SciPy and SQL alchemy.  ? Created Restful micro services utilizing Flask and Django and sent on AWS servers utilizing EBS and EC2.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML/QML documents and load the data in database.  ? Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev, Sublime text.  ? Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript Object-to-XML.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Used Spark for interactive queries, processing of streaming data and integration with popular NoSQL database for huge volume of data.  ? Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD, and Python.  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used.  ? Migration of data validation code from the legacy mainframe systems to ETL framework using informatica workflows and shell scripts.  ? Developed stored procedures, functions and packages for ETL Development.  ? Performed the performance evaluation of the ETL for full load cycle.  ? Critiqued the source data coming from different sources (Oracle, DB2, XML, Flat files) and worked on developing ETL mappings.  ? Used testing like JIRA for bug tracking.  ? Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views.  ? Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angular, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  ? Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  ? Use of Agile Rally for project management like project iteration etc.  ? Used Agile rally for scheduling release and other QA activates.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML, CSS, XML,QML, JavaScript, GO Lang, AJAX, Webserver, wxPython , matplotlib, NumPy , PyDev, PostgreSQL, Apache, Bootstrap, Flask, Oracle, PL/SQL, MySQL, MS-Sql, , Web Services, SOAP, REST, PyCharm, Windows, Linux. Python Developer BNY MELLON - New York, NY September 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  ? Used Python and Django for XML, JSON processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  ? Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  ? Created UI using JavaScript, Perl and HTML5. Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  ? Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community.  ? Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  ? Worked on Libraries like Pandas for data manipulation and analysis.  ? Developed most of the application part in Linux environment and very much familiar with all its commands.  ? Used TKinter to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  ? Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.    Environment: Linux, Python, Django, Ansible, HTML, XML, JavaScript, AngularJs, JQuery, MS SQL Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Hadoop Beautiful soup, Perl, Pandas, Matlab, Eclipse, Kafka Git, GitHub, JIRA. Python Developer AgFirst Farm Credit Bank - Columbia, SC May 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  ? Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.  ? Formulating the ETL mappings to implement the business logic. Used transformations like lookup, update strategy, expression, filter, router, aggregate, source Qualifier.  ? Exposure about ETL batch and the concept of data warehousing.  ? Have extensively worked on creating different kinds of maps, graphs etc for analysis of data in Tableau.  ? Have experience working on creating calculated fields by joining different kinds of data sets from different data sources in Tableau.  ? Designed Tableau Dashboards templates for market reports by Tableau dashboards and pivot tables.  ? Created reports in tableau for visualization of the data sets created and tested Impala Connectors.  ? Worked on HDFS to store and access huge datasets within Hadoop.  ? Developed different kind of custom filters and handled pre-defined filters on HBase data using API.  ? Developed user interface solutions using a Django web framework. Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs, and Views utilizing Python technologies to build web based applications.  ? Developed interfaces using JavaScript, HTML technologies for several web applications to fetch and graphically present required data from database.  ? Involved in the complete Software Development life cycle (SDLC) to develop application.  ? Developed user interface of the web application using HTML, CSS3, and Bootstrap. Wrote custom user defined functions in JavaScript to validate application functionalities/features.  ? Responsible for writing OOP code in Python for server side scripting.  ? Wrote code to support model-view-controller (MVC) pattern of Python Django framework in developing several modules for the application.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL, Agile methodology, HTML, Django, bootstrap, JQuery, XML, pandas SQL programming, Tableau, Hadoop, Python programming, and R Programming. Education Bachelor's