Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - AmerisourceBergen Conshohocken, PA • 7+ years of experience in Design, Development and Deployment of Python applications.  • Extensive experience in Requirement Analysis, Application Design & Development and profound knowledge on SDLC using agile and V-model.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, Numpy, SciPy, MatPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas data frame, networkx, urllib2, Pychart, High charts) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Expertise in developing web-based applications using libraries and frameworks like Angular JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ruby on Rails, Knockout.js, NodeJS, Backbone.js, React JS, D3 JS and Require JS.  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Sound knowledge in Spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  • Extensive experience in Building web applications using Kendo UI widgets, jQuery, Angular JS.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Experience on Web development using HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON by following W3C standards.  • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, Cloud Front, Route 53.  • Extensive development experience in Java, Struts, JSPs, Servlets, taglibs, Hibernate, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, SQL, XML and JSON.  • Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer.  • Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy & BottlePy framework.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java API, Swing, HTML 4/5, Flex, JavaScript, CSS2/3, jQuery, JDBC, JSF, JMS, XML.  • Leveraging queueing architectures with RabbitMQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test-driven development methodologies.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views and triggers.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Proficient in creating front end-systems using JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 and MVC frameworks such as Angular.js and Node.js.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer AmerisourceBergen - Conshohocken, PA May 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs (RESTful Web services) by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Designed test cases and test plans, and developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python.  • Developed an autonomous continuous integration system by using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed web components by using JSP, Servlet under J2EE Environment and implemented security features for the APIs.  • Worked with various python libraries such as Pandas and MatPlotLib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web based solution.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash and worked in tandem with the Flash developer to obtain the correct data through query string.  • Involved in designing database Model, API's, Views using python to build an interactive web based solution.  • Implemented Data tables to add, delete, update and display patient records and policy information using PyQt.  • Implemented a module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance using python.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python-MySQL connector and retrieved information using MySQL db.  • Recorded the online users' data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using PyTest.  • Developed the application using the Test Driven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and Business logic implementation.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria, Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured complex Apache configuration files.  • Writing Python scripts with Cloud Formation templates to Automate installation of Auto scaling, EC2, VPC, and other services.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  • jQuery and AJAX call used for more interactive web pages. Ensured quality versioning data modeling and data import and export. Sr. Python Developer Frontier Communications - Stamford, CT July 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed UI for creating Dashboard application using AngularJS, D3, C3, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed and implemented Python scripts to automate retrieval, parsing and reporting of configuration parameters from Network Devices connected to customer networks.  • Involved in user interface design and development using JSP, Servlet, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Web application development for backend system on using Angular with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Wrote and tested Python scripts to create new data files for Linux server configuration using a Python template tool.  • Modified controlling databases using SQL generated via Python and Perl code, collected and analyzed data with Python programs using SQL queries from the database of data collected from the systems under tests.  • Developed new user interface components for different modules using Kendo UI with various controls including Grid controls, and chart controls etc.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using jQuery, Ajax and jQuery UI.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service and etc.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  • Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching Hadoop Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts.  • Developed Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  • Installed Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, AWS and developed multiple MapReduce jobs in PIG and Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Involved in the Web/Application development using Python 3.5, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific format with Excel macros and python libraries such as Numpy, SQL Alchemy and MatPlotLib.  • Prototype proposal for Issue Tracker website using Python/Django connecting MySQL as Database.  • Developed overall layout that meet cross platform compatibility using Bootstrap, media queries and Angular UI Bootstrap. Python Developer Deltacom - Huntsville, AL August 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used JavaScript data visualization framework (D3.js) to display the information in a chart view.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Created custom directives in Angular JS for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads).  • Experience in python, Jupyter, Scientific computing stack (Numpy, SciPy, pandas and MatPlotLib).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Developed new scripts a using many regular expressions in order to match and extract data as required to comply with various compliance reporting requirements.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update,  read and delete.  • Worked on Anti Money Laundering (AML) application to develop new modules to build reports for identifying various accounts and activities.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, MatPlotLib.  • Analyzing various logs that are been generating and predicting/forecasting next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium and Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Analyzing the source data coming from different sources (SQL Server, Oracle, Sales force and from flat files like Access and Excel) and working with business users and developers to develop the Model.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers and Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked with PYTHON, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant social networking website around online HD streaming video.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Used IBM DB2 SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Performed different testing methods like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing and selenium testing.  • For the manipulation of data from the database various queries using SQL were written and created a database using MYSQL.  • Implemented business logic in Python to prevent, detect and claim the duplicate payments.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. Python Developer TDS Telecom - Madison, WI October 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in writing jQuery-based Ajax requests using jQuery.get or jQuery.ajax and jQuery.post.  • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matches requirements of the company.  • Excellent Coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Exported Test Case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium environment.  • Wrote SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Built main applications in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tasty pie, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Ember.js.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Maintaining multiple copies of data in different database servers using MongoDB Replication concept.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked on JavaScript frameworks (Angular JS, Node JS) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build MVC Architecture with Angular JS.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Involved in development of User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, D3 JS and Knockout JS. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Skills Python, HTML5 (7 years), CSS, CSS3 (7 years), jQuery, AngularJS (7 years), NodeJS, MongoDB (7 years), SQL, HTML (7 years), Backbone.js, React JS, D3 JS (7 years), Bootstrap, Knockout.js (7 years), AJAX, XML and JSON (7 years), Servlets, taglibs, Hibernate (7 years), Spark, Scala (7 years), JDBC, JSF, JMS, XML (7 years), SCRUM, Waterfall Model (7 years), JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap (7 years), PHP/MySQL (7 years)