Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - BioMerieux St. Louis, MO • Having 6+ Years of Experience as web/application developer software development and design using python, Django, Java, Webapp2, Angular.js, HTML/CSS, JavaScript and jQuery  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  • Created a python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  • Used Anisole and Anisole Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and Testing.  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Working experience in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Creating Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom Frigate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once).  • Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  • Experience in Kubernets that provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Have Experience in List Comprehensions and Python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  • Experience in using CI tools Hudson, Build Forge, and Jenkins for automated builds. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer BioMerieux - St. Louis, MO August 2018 to Present Description:BioMerieux provides diagnostic solutions (reagents, instruments, software) which determine the source of disease and contamination to improve patient health and ensure consumer safety. Its products are used for diagnosing infectious diseases and for Cancer screening and monitoring and cardiovascular emergencies. They are also used for detecting microorganisms in agri-food, pharmaceutical and cosmetic products  Roles & Responsibilities  Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and demoralization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Anisole Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Used Flask framework for application development.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Agular's.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  Environment: Python 3.6/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, AWS, API Gateway, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, Cloud Watch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence.. Python Developer CVS Caremark - Chicago, IL January 2017 to July 2018 Description: MedPartners originally acquired Northbrook, Illinois-based Caremark International, which was founded as a unit of Baxter International and was spun off from Baxter in 1992 as a publicly traded company. Caremark International announced it would be acquired by MedPartners with MedPartners ending up with Caremark's PPM division and prescription benefit management (PBM) division and disposing of Caremark's rehabilitation Business to HealthSouth.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration(CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to automate many day-to-day tasks.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from Dynamo DB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Work lets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Tested and debugged the product in controlled and real situations.  • Deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins  Environment: Python 3.5/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, AWS, API Gateway, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, Cloud Watch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. Python Developer Charles Schwab - Chicago, IL April 2016 to December 2016 Description: The Charles Schwab Corporation is a bank and brokerage firm, based in Chicago, IL.The company provides services for individuals and institutions that are investing online. The company offers an electronic trading platform for the purchase and sale of financial securities including common stocks, preferred stocks, futures contracts, exchange-traded funds, options, mutual funds, and fixed income investments.  Roles & Responsibilities:    • Actively involved in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications, which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Involved in develop the REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  • Built an Interface between Django and Salesforce and Django with RESTAPI.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db. Package.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the Application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented admin sites to manage database information with Flask Admin, MySQL and SQLite.  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  Environment: Python 2.7 and 3.0, Django 1.4, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, MYSQL, Cassandra, JIRA. Python Developer Sify Technologies limited - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2013 to December 2015 Description: Sify Technologies Limited is an Indian information and communications technology company providing end to end ICT solutions including telecom services, data center services, cloud & managed services, transformation integration services and application integration services.  Roles & Responsibilities:    • Designed front end using HTML, Bootstrap, and CSS.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MongoDB and Linux.  • Used Python libraries like Selenium, Numpy and SQLAlchemy.  • Worked on several Python libraries like Numpy, Pandas and Matplotlib.  • Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process by extending Django user model.  • Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and React that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Used Numpy, Matplotlib, and Pandas to generate products for major enterprises.  • Created a Python based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML and CSS.  • Wrote & executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector & MySQL dB package.  • Developed and designed automation script using Python and Bash.  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django  Environment: Python, MySQL, Hive, JSON, RESTful, Pandas, Machine Learning, Version One, Linux, Shell Scripting, IBM Natuzzi, JavaScript, AngularJS, Toad Data Point (SQL),Putty (Linux). Education Master's Skills MySQL, ASP, PHP, Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Python-3.5 & 2.7, C, C++, UML (design), Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  Python Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Numpy, matPlotLib, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables.    Frameworks Django, web2py, pyramid, Flask.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB,  Cloud Technologies AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3.  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, Bugzilla, Rational.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SNMP, SMTP, REST.  Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall.  Operating Systems Linux, Unix, Windows.