Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - eBay Enterprise Boston, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer eBay Enterprise - Boston, MA October 2015 to Present eBay Enterprise Inc. is a multinational e-commerce corporation that specialized in creating, developing and running online shopping sites for brick and mortar brands and retailers.    Responsibilities:-  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework and views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects and JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria, Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Pythonand added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design and created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTM and Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component alongwith Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Created UI Screens for initiation and validation and worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance and used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL and interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment:- Python 3.4, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Comcast - Greenwood Village, CO May 2013 to September 2015 Comcast Corporation, formerly registered as Comcast Holdings, is an American global mass media conglomerate and is the largest broadcasting and cable television company in the world by revenue.    Responsibilities:-  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework and tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  ? Performed testing using Django's Test Module and used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Created Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, DataFeeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and generated property list for every application dynamically using Python also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript and handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Built development environment with JIRA and created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code and responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment:- Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Java, Angular.js, Bootstrap, AWS, Bash, PyQt, XML, Shell Scripting, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jenkins, Apache Web Server, Linux. Python Developer Pay Pal - San Jose, CA October 2011 to April 2013 PayPal Holdings, Inc. is an American company operating a worldwide online payments system. Online money transfers serve as electronic alternatives to traditional paper methods like checks and money orders.    Responsibilities:-  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.6 and used Django APIs for database access.  ? Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data and used Angular.js to build efficient backend for client web application and Python to extract information from XML files.  ? Worked on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP1.1, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL and developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask and Cassandra schema for the APIs.  ? Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search and effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries and used GIT for the version control.    Environment:- Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Developer GE Energy - Waukesha, WI November 2009 to September 2011 Payroll ERP is developed to satisfy all the Payroll needs of a corporate. This software is used to aid in automating and providing timely and accurate payroll processing for all types of employees. Payroll software has built-in functions to accommodate the life cycle of payroll processing. This system captures details of different categories of Employees and generates pay slips detailing their income details calculated based on the Organization Budget lines, Income tax details and others.    Responsibilities:-  ? Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  ? Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  ? Done Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling and process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  ? Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  ? Used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  ? Involved in testing RESTFull API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  ? Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    Environment:- Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, JSON, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, agile, Restfull, UNIX and Windows. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:-    Languages:- Python, Java, C, C++, Embedded SQL, PostgreSQL  Frameworks:- Django, AngularJS, Hibernate, Sqlalchemy Orm.  Scripting Languages:- HTML, CSS, Java Script, J-Query, Angular JS  Databases:- MS SQL Server MS-Access, MY SQL, Oracle, SQLite, PL/SQL  User Interfaces:- HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, XML, DOM, XAML, IIS, AJAX, SOAP, Restful, WSDL, Web Services, Angular JS  Operating Systems:- Linux, Windows, Windows Server 2003, Version Control Team Foundation Server (TFS), Subversion, Clear Case  Protocols:- TCP/IP, HTTP, FTP  Tools & IDE: - PowerShell, Jenkins (build process), Eclipse Pydev, Wing 3.1, Django South, Fabric deployment tool, Pytest, Selenium, SoapUI, Chef, Jenkins, PyCharm, Sublime, Eclipse, NetBeans.  SDLC:- Waterfall, RAD, Agile, Scrum  Packages:- MS Office (Word, Excel and PowerPoint), MS outlook, Lotus Notes.  Others:- GIT, PIP, PEP8, Celery, Redis, RESTful Web Services, Heroku, OpenCV, Django-Debug-Toolbar, Datastage, CA workload automation, Service now, Microstartegy, Quality center.