Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Flexera Software Itasca, IL Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Flexera Software - Itasca, IL February 2017 to Present February 2017 - Present Sr. Python developer Nvidia - Austin, TX November 2014 to January 2017 Responsibilities  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas and had implemented and tested python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Developed and tested many features in an Agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Responsible for designing and deploying new ELK clusters (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Graphite Kibana, beats, Kafka, zookeeper etc.  • Implemented AngularJS controllers to maintain each view data  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML, Angular JS and Node JS.  • Working with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Working in team of developers to build and deploy Flask, Linux, AWS.  • Involved in maintaining and editing Python scripts for application deployment automation  • Working on various Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Anaconda Spyder.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Created, activated and programmed in Anaconda environment. Wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy.  • Golang, Infrastructure Teams and Engineering Productivity utilizing Kubernetes, Docker, influx dB Ansible, Spinnaker.  • Implemented Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Created Python scripts used to generate reports.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.Capital One - McLean, VA Python Developer Resposibilities March 2013 to October 2014 • Worked on Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Created Python and Bash tools to i Confidential ease efficiency of operations: data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Designed and developed data management system using MongoDB.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used standard Python modules like CSV, Robot parser, Pickle development.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku.  • Utilized various IDEs and internal debug tools during debugging.  • Implemented a delivery pipeline with Jenkins and AWS.  • Automation of unit testing using Python. Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing and web application testing.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Development of Python API's to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase. Python developer Toshiba - Research Triangle Park, NC December 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities  • Built database model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as CSV, itertools and pickle for development.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web-based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Developed Spark Code using python for faster processing of data.  • Responsible for managing large databases using MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Used the Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team. Education Bachelor's Skills Django, Javascript, Python, Flask