Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Advance Auto Parts Boulder, CO 7 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications in Python  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, java, C++.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, CSS3, HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Proficient in Front end development using HTML, XML, CSS, jQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  • Experience with Web Development, Python and the Django framework.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN.  • Experience in developing web applications implementing MVC architecture using Django framework and SQLAlchemy.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Experienced in Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, SOAP, XML.  • Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js and Projects UI Designing Team.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT) MQ libraries, Perl, Python scripting.  • Web application development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Bootstrap.  • Experienced in working on Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ  • Experience with RESTful APIs and queues like RabbitMQ  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, jQuery and Node.js.  • Knowledge in Model View Controller (MVC) frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, jQuery.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle and MySQL.  • Experienced in working on Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ  • Experience with RESTful APIs and queues like RabbitMQ  • Created the Node JS - Express JS Server to build MVC framework from front-end side Angular 2 to back-end.  • Experience with event-based and message-driven distributed systems like Celery, RabbitMQ.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  • Experience in using various version control systems like Git, GitHub.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Conducted numerous enhancements for the system and bug-fixing tasks.  • Executed asynchronous tasks with help of Celery.  • Developed and maintained mostly Python and ETL scripts to scrape data from external web sites and load cleansed data into a MySQL DB  • Experience with Requests, NumPy, Matplotlib, SciPy, PySpark and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Experience and knowledge in AWS data lake storing and data analytics and spark data frames for processing and manipulating very large data files. Work Experience Python Developer Advance Auto Parts - Raleigh, NC July 2018 to Present * Worked on the project for Master Data Management (MDM) team for designing and developing the ETL process in AWS glue and launching and extracting the data from MDM tool called Reltio.  * Designed and developed an entire module called CDC (change data capture) in python and deployed in AWS GLUE using Pyspark library and python.  * Created number of Ec2 instances for carrying parsing operations and worked on S3 for data storage functions in doing ETL jobs and data transformations using Boto3 library in python.  * Designed a workflow for data passing from AWS gateway server to AWS S3 for both encrypted and decrypted formats and then to custom developed delta process module.  * By using pandas and numpy libraries created python scripts to do ETL operations on large CSV, JSON and various types of files and converted into appropriate file types for database consumption.  * Wrote and executed several complex SQL queries in AWS glue for ETL operations in Spark data frame using sparksql.  * Wrote SQL query operations to join the different full files to form delta file to capture the change data for identifying the new or updated data.  * Designed and developed a JSON parser for parsing the required useful information from the huge data produced.  * Built a delta file from full file by identifying only INSERTS, UPDATES and DELETES by using python and pyspark modules and store it in S3.  * Helped maintain existing Python applications. Interfaced with infrastructure services like Amazon AWS (S3, SQS) and used tools like RabbitMQ.  * Experienced in working on Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ  * Experience with RESTful APIs and queues like RabbitMQ  * Working experience in creating REST webservice protocols in python to access AWS and Reltio.  * Developed a mapping process for delta file to JSON format for AWS glue consumption and created and call the glue.  * The large JSON data produced from the reltio tool is called master data is retrieved and parsed by using custom developed JSON parser and feed into the sqllite database.  * Implemented RESTful web services in JSON format.  * By using JSON parser which I developed we overcome the memory error and reduce the total execution time of 27 hours to 17 hours of processing total full files from the reltio by using AWS EC2 instances.  * Performed Unit testing and Integration testing on the modules developed. Python Developer Selene Finance - Houston, TX September 2016 to July 2018 Built an execution environment or system that allows for automated testing of tools. It can be viewed as a platform to test out a set of assumptions or planned changes (in the analysis tools/version, dataset/models or execution environment) and make side-by-comparison of results or to verify qualification status of production tools.    Responsibilities:  * Management of a test library for each tool-version flavor as configured, provide a mechanism to execute the tools-versions under test  * Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  * Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  * Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  * Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon Web Services (AWS)  * Developed Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  * Used Python programming and Django for backend development, Bootstrap and Angular for frontend connectivity and Cassandra for database.  * Having good implementation experience with installation and configuration of Kubernetes, clustering them and managed local deployments in Kubernetes.  * Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed by Kubernetes, Linux, Bash, GIT, Docker, on AWS. Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploy.  * Assign Job to AWS Data pipeline service to access log data in AWS S3.  * Used data pipelines to transfer data to RDBMS and NoSQL data base for future analysis.  * Improved internally developed ETL tools to make them more robust and flexible.  * Developed common ETL and written Python code to format XML documents which can help to source data from different platforms.  * Writing SOAP and Restful web services, in house ESB for a web Claims application Angular JS, RabbitMQ, SOAP UI.  * Development of Scripts for CICD using Virtual machines, Docker, python.  * Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  * Developed a Django ORM module queries that can pre-load data to reduce the number of databases queries needed to retrieve same amount of data.  * Develop scripts to automate the execution of ETL using python scripts under Unix environment  * Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  * Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  * Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design  * Responsible for managing large databases using MySQL and Oracle Databases.  * Wrote and executed various Oracle database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db. package. Used the Python's modules pandas, NumPy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  * Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  * Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  * Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  * Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  * Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data and wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in DB.  Environment: Python3.x+, Django 1.8, HTML, CSS, NodeJS, AJAX, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, Jenkins, Dockers, MYSQL, MongoDB, JIRA Python Developer Gexa Energy - Houston, TX January 2015 to July 2016 Developed a web-based application using python to automate the bill management process. I had developed an application that fetches the reports and other data from the vendor's websites (total of different 5 vendors) and fill that data into the respective tables into the database.    Responsibilities:  * Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  * Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  * Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  * Updated and manipulated content and files by using Python scripts.  * Organized Python code using PEP8 online tool including documentation of scripts.  * Sole engineer responsible for automated test design, frontend and backend feature implementation, and any other improvements to the test automation framework.  * Developed Restful microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  * Used Django API's to access the database.  * Involved in writing API's for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  * Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  * Analyzing the source data coming from various heterogeneous data sources to be consumed in the ETL to load data into data warehouse  * Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users. Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  * Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  * Extensively used ETL to load data from Oracle and Flat files to Data Warehouse.  * Used SQL and MongoDB (NoSQL) to identify and troubleshot campaign errors.  * Performed daily administration functions, including database management, monitoring, performance tuning, backup & recovery and general troubleshooting on multiple UNIX platforms and Windows Servers.  * Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  * Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  * Used HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.    Environment: MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.8, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, Flask, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, MongoDB, AJAX, Cassandra, Json, Unix, jQuery. Python Developer Idea Entity - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  * Involved in understanding the current business process, defining scope of the project along with position statement.  * Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  * Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  * Used Python and Django creating for XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  * Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  * Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  * Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  * Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  * Held meetings with client and worked all alone for entire internal project with limited help from the client.  * Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  * Connected Flex from Backend Controller using different API services.  * Working with the architect, developers on business and technical issues, helping in designing the system; and testers to ensure all requirements are correctly translated.  * Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers, and User Defined function.  * I have also used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  * Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.  Environment: Python, Django, Java, MySQL, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, MYSQL Education Master's