Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Phillips 66, Houston Redwood City, CA Over 7+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical  ? Programming using Python, Django, Java.  ? Involved in software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm.  ? Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST and knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, WebLogic.  ? Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA and Bugzilla worked in SQL databases MS SQL, Apache Cassandra, Oracle and MongoDB.  ? SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance (Bulk Binds, Materialized views, Inline views, Global Temporary Tables).  ? Good experience in Shell Scripting Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on DevOps tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture.  ? Working with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes.  ? Writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  ? Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies and Familiar with concepts and devices such routers, switches and TCP/IP protocols and OSI layer.  ? Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Used Groovy and Grails with spring, Java, J2EE for user interface.  ? Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB and Knowledgeable with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  ? Extensive working experience in free marker, Struts framework, Spring framework and O/R Mapping Hibernate framework.  ? Had knowledge on continuous integration and deployment using Jenkins, Docker.  ? Implemented Restful web service to interact with Redis Cache framework.  ? Worked on developing Restful endpoints to cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like REDIS and exposed them with Restful endpoints.  ? Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront.  ? Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  ? Developed custom consumers and producers for Apache Kafka in Go (Golang) for cars monitoring system.  ? Designed the real-time analytics and ingestion platform using Storm and Kafka. Wrote Storm topology to accept the events from Kafka producer and emit into Cassandra DB.  ? Manage the configurations of multiple servers using Ansible.  ? Implemented real-time log analytics pipeline using Confluent Kafka, storm, elastic search,  Logstash Kibana, and Greenplum.  ? Worked with Kibana log monitoring system and fixed a critical issue easily by capturing the context.  ? Maintaining the Elasticsearch cluster and Logstash nodes to process around 5TB of Data Daily from various sources like Kafka, kubernetes, etc.  ? Design, build and manage the ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, graphite, Kibana) cluster for centralized logging and search functionalities for the App.  ? Golang, Infrastructure Teams and Engineering Productivity utilizing Kubernetes, Docker, influx dB Ansible, Spinnaker.  ? Deployed mircoservices2, including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible Playbooks.  ? Provisioned load balancer, auto-scaling group and launch configuration for microservice using Ansible.  ? Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  ? Experience in writing playbooks for Ansible and deploying applications using Ansible.  ? Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack Monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has integrated Ansible with Run deck and Jenkins.  ? Provisioned and patched servers regularly using Ansible.  ? Implemented Ansible to manage all existing servers and automate the build/configuration of new servers.  ? Developed an Ansible role for Zabbix-agent which will be integrated into the to the CICD pipeline.  ? Used Ansible to document all infrastructures into version control.  ? Used Ansible to document application dependencies into version control.  ? Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy their code using GitHub Jenkins, Nexus and Ansible  ? Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  ? Excellent understanding and knowledge of Hadoop Distributed file system data modelling, architecture and design principles and Developed Python Mapper and Reducer scripts and implemented them using Hadoop streaming.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Spark.  ? Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Spark and Familiar with JSON based REST Web services  ? Experienced in understanding Service Virtualization needs/ Requirements & creating VSI's using WSDL, WADL, Recording, Request & Response pairs.  ? Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, scale and manage Docker containers with multiple name spaced versions.  ? Different grid operations using panda, flask and SQL Alchemy combination  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Spring, Struts, Hibernate and EJB deployed on WebSphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  ? Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate  ? Use AWS cloud management console, spinnaker to work with AWS. Wrote python scripts using boto3 library to manage ec2 instances and CloudFormation stack.  ? Developed CI/CD system with Jenkins on Google's Kubernetes container environment, utilizing Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build and test and deploy.  ? Strong hands-on on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring    ? Developed backup and recovery engine for VM backup/recovery using VMware vSphere APIs, Golang programming language and RabbitMQ Message bus (communication interface).  ? Created Terraform modules for two tier Architecture which includes AWS resources VPC, Subnets, Security groups, Ec2, Load Balancers, Auto scaling group, CloudWatch Alarms, ECS clusters, S3 buckets for logs.  ? Built Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing Terraform code to deploy different Applications infrastructure for Dev, QA and Pre-prod based on the requirement from different teams.  ? Built servers in AWS, importing Volumes, launching EC2, creating Security groups, Auto scaling, Load balancers (ELBs) and Installed required packages on servers.  ? Crypto Blockchain (Bitcoin, Monaro, Bitcoin Cash) E-commerce platform built utilizing Python with Flask back-end and Jinja/JavaScript front-end.  ? Currently building RESTful service API to allow users to see Blockchain transactions, orders, and info.  ? Deployed on AWS and with services EC2, S3, CloudFront. Configured AWS CLI and performed necessary actions on the AWS services using shell scripting. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer Phillips 66, Houston March 2017 to Present Over 7+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical  ? Programming using Python, Django, Java.  ? Involved in software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm.  ? Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST and knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, WebLogic.  ? Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA and Bugzilla worked in SQL databases MS SQL, Apache Cassandra, Oracle and MongoDB.  ? SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance (Bulk Binds, Materialized views, Inline views, Global Temporary Tables).  ? Good experience in Shell Scripting Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on DevOps tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture.  ? Working with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes.  ? Writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  ? Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies and Familiar with concepts and devices such routers, switches and TCP/IP protocols and OSI layer.  ? Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Used Groovy and Grails with spring, Java, J2EE for user interface.  ? Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB and Knowledgeable with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  ? Extensive working experience in free marker, Struts framework, Spring framework and O/R Mapping Hibernate framework.  ? Had knowledge on continuous integration and deployment using Jenkins, Docker.  ? Implemented Restful web service to interact with Redis Cache framework.  ? Worked on developing Restful endpoints to cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like REDIS and exposed them with Restful endpoints.  ? Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront.  ? Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  ? Developed custom consumers and producers for Apache Kafka in Go (Golang) for cars monitoring system.  ? Designed the real-time analytics and ingestion platform using Storm and Kafka. Wrote Storm topology to accept the events from Kafka producer and emit into Cassandra DB.  ? Manage the configurations of multiple servers using Ansible.  ? Implemented real-time log analytics pipeline using Confluent Kafka, storm, elastic search,  Logstash Kibana, and Greenplum.  ? Worked with Kibana log monitoring system and fixed a critical issue easily by capturing the context.  ? Maintaining the Elasticsearch cluster and Logstash nodes to process around 5TB of Data Daily from various sources like Kafka, kubernetes, etc.  ? Design, build and manage the ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, graphite, Kibana) cluster for centralized logging and search functionalities for the App.  ? Golang, Infrastructure Teams and Engineering Productivity utilizing Kubernetes, Docker, influx dB Ansible, Spinnaker.  ? Deployed mircoservices2, including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible Playbooks.  ? Provisioned load balancer, auto-scaling group and launch configuration for microservice using Ansible.  ? Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  ? Experience in writing playbooks for Ansible and deploying applications using Ansible.  ? Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack Monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has integrated Ansible with Run deck and Jenkins.  ? Provisioned and patched servers regularly using Ansible.  ? Implemented Ansible to manage all existing servers and automate the build/configuration of new servers.  ? Developed an Ansible role for Zabbix-agent which will be integrated into the to the CICD pipeline.  ? Used Ansible to document all infrastructures into version control.  ? Used Ansible to document application dependencies into version control.  ? Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy their code using GitHub Jenkins, Nexus and Ansible  ? Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  ? Excellent understanding and knowledge of Hadoop Distributed file system data modelling, architecture and design principles and Developed Python Mapper and Reducer scripts and implemented them using Hadoop streaming.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Spark.  ? Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Spark and Familiar with JSON based REST Web services  ? Experienced in understanding Service Virtualization needs/ Requirements & creating VSI's using WSDL, WADL, Recording, Request & Response pairs.  ? Expertise in creating Restful API in NodeJS and communicate with Clojure server via protocol and use Backbone to generate template.  ? Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, scale and manage Docker containers with multiple name spaced versions.  ? Different grid operations using panda, flask and SQL Alchemy combination  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Spring, Struts, Hibernate and EJB deployed on WebSphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  ? Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate  ? Developed CI/CD system with Jenkins on Google's Kubernetes container environment, utilizing Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build and test and deploy.  ? Strong hands-on on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring  ? Analyzed queries and database behavior using Percona tools, DB Tuna.  ? Developed backup and recovery engine for VM backup/recovery using VMware vSphere APIs, Golang programming language and RabbitMQ Message bus (communication interface).  ? Created Terraform modules for two tier Architecture which includes AWS resources VPC, Subnets, Security groups, Ec2, Load Balancers, Auto scaling group, CloudWatch Alarms, ECS clusters, S3 buckets for logs.  ? Built Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing Terraform code to deploy different Applications infrastructure for Dev, QA and Pre-prod based on the requirement from different teams.  ? Built servers in AWS, importing Volumes, launching EC2, creating Security groups, Auto scaling, Load balancers (ELBs) and Installed required packages on servers.  ? Crypto Blockchain (Bitcoin, Monaro, Bitcoin Cash) E-commerce platform built utilizing Python with Flask back-end and Jinja/JavaScript front-end.  ? Currently building RESTful service API to allow users to see Blockchain transactions, orders, and info.  ? Deployed on AWS and with services EC2, S3, CloudFront. Configured AWS CLI and performed necessary actions on the AWS services using shell scripting.  ? Created Modules utilizing Requests JSON to interact RPC Wallet servers and Blockchain.  ? Created scripts that monitored a device using Prometheus and Grafana via ODL, sash, GRPC, NC Client and model driven telemetry and checked for memory leaks and health of the router. Ohio - Python developer Kroger November 2015 to February 2017 Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend applications.  ? Strong Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  ? Actively involved in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  ? Was leading an effort to build a real time click stream analytics platform for processing the beacons from web and mobile devices using Spark, Kafka, elastic and building dashboard using Kibana and Grafana  ? Develop python code to automate the ingestion of common formats such as JSON, CSV by using Logstash from elastic search to Kibana dashboard to be viewed by clients.  ? Responsible for designing and deploying new ELK clusters (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Graphite Kibana, beats, Kafka, zookeeper etc.  ? Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  ? Fixed issues related to OpenStack components such as Nova, Glance, Neutron, Key-stone, MySQL/Percona DB, RabbitMQ, Cech, Repose, HAP Roxy and Horizon.  ? Experienced in developing API services Python/Tornado while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  ? Designed and developed web crawler in python using Scrappy framework and using RabbitMQ as a messaging server between the micro services.  ? Experience with Kibana to check logs and other time-stamped data sets stored in Elastic Search.  ? Written and Maintained Automated Salt scripts for Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana, and Beats.  ? Worked on several python packages like NumPy, Beautiful Soup, SQL Alchemy, Py Tables etc.  ? Developed full stack Python web framework with an emphasis on simplicity, flexibility, and extensibility. It is built atop excellent components and reinvents zero wheels. WSGI, routing, templating, forms, data, plugins, config, events, SQL Alchemy, Storm, CouchDB, OpenID, App Engine, jQuery, etc.  ? Enabled continuous delivery via Gitlab, Spinnaker, Docker, Jenkins, Terraform, and AWS  Designed and developed load tests using Scala (Gatling)  ? Analysis of logs data and filter required columns by Logstash configuration and send it to Elasticsearch.  ? Validated BI Support events, transformed and batched events which are sent to HNM and Kafka by triggering these events using Kafka, Mesos.  ? Used micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting of REST and Kafka.  ? Developed Kafka producer and consumers, HBase clients, Spark, shark, Streams and Hadoop MapReduce jobs along with components on HDFS, Hive.  ? Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Use AWS cloud management console, spinnaker to work with AWS. Wrote python scripts using boto3 library to manage ec2 instances and CloudFormation stack.  ? Created real-time dashboard for Executives, utilizing Logstash, graphite, Elastic Search, Kibana & Redis.  ? Experience in configuring and working with Flume and Kafka to load the data from multiple web sources directly into HDFS.  ? Used Redis cache for storing commonly used info and propagate the changes using RabbitMQ  ? Worked on Angular JS framework to develop interactive websites based on client needs.  ? Used Cassandra for database and Redis for cache, for storing and fetching the data.  ? Used Redis Cache for high performance, which creates space for new data by removing old data.  ? Developed Ruby on Rails web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Risqué and Redis.  ? Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other application  ? Successfully migrated the website's main database from MySQL to PostgreSQL.  ? Helped the big data analytics team with implementation of python scripts for Sqoop, spark and Hadoop batch data streaming.  ? Developed frontends using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Designed and created the database tables and wrote SQL queries to access PostgreSQL  ? Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, and worked on Docker Engine, Docker HUB, Docker Images, Docker Compose for handling images for installations and domain configurations.  ? Implemented in Jenkins for Continuous Integration and for automating all builds and deployments and Build Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing terraform code and Installed and Administered Jenkins CI for Maven Builds.  ? Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Flask.  ? Ingested large CSV XML JSON data from computers around the world utilizing Python with pandas, csv, xml and NumPy. Formatted the raw data and built dynamic statistic pages for engineers.  ? Migrated data from a mongo dB and python2 environment to an Elasticsearch python 3 workflow.  ? Developed Micro services for the HP team using Spring Boot and Java 8.  ? Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  ? Kubernetes is being used to orchestrate the deployment, scaling and management of Docker Containers.  ? Used Jenkins pipelines to drive all micro services builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes  ? Managed local deployments in Kubernetes, creating local cluster and deploying application containers.  ? Wrote AJAX calls to populate tables, tab menu and other components with JSON data in AngularJS.  ? Extensively used HTML5, AngularJS, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting for form validations.  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring to implement this.  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Spring, Struts, Hibernate and EJB deployed on WebSphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database  ? Implemented a continuous Delivery Pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub to build a new Docker container automatically.  ? Used Docker to implement a high-level API to provide lightweight containers that run processes isolation and worked on creation of customized Docker container images, tagged and pushed the images to the Docker repository.  ? Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using AngularJS framework, Java Script, and jQuery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front-end UI team.  ? Extensively used HTML5, AngularJS, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting for form validations.  ? Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has Integrated Ansible with Run deck and Jenkins.  ? Wrote Ansible Playbooks with Python SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS nodes and Tested Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to Provide Dev Servers.  ? Experience in using GIT Repository Managers for Maven builds.  ? Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks. Python Developer UPS - Atlanta, GA August 2013 to October 2015 Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application and Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS).  ? Used Test driven approach(TDD) for developing services required for the application.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queries MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve.  ? Datacenter migration to Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure and provided initial support to Applications and Database teams.  ? Extensive working experience in free marker, Struts framework, Spring framework and O/R Mapping Hibernate framework.  ? Designed and coded Hibernate, struts for mapping, configurations and HQL for enhancement and new module development of Transport Optimization, Planning and Scheduling Web app.  ? Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  ? Developed micro services using spring boot exposed as REST API and integrated with AngularJS based web applications.  ? Configured Struts, Hibernate framework with Spring MVC..  ? Experience with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka.  ? Working on Spinnaker platform for Multi-Cloud Continuous Delivery (Bake, Test, & Deploy/Container Pipelines) using Packer, Terraform, Kubernetes, AWS, GCP.  ? Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host..  ? Managed local deployments in Kubernetes, creating local cluster and deploying application containers.  ? Experienced in developing API services Python/Tornado while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Design and implementation of CI/CD pipelines using Jenkins and automated CI/CD pipelines by invoking Ansible playbooks  ? Automated the Oracle 12c installation using ansible scripts  ? Automated email notification using celery and RabbitMQ for status of jobs and pending task list manager to users and admin.  ? Profound knowledge and experience on underlying mechanism of docker containers and automated the docker containers using Ansible  ? Expertise in Implementing a Production ready, Highly Available, Fault Tolerant Kubernetes infrastructure. Working on Scheduling, deploying and managing container replicas on a node cluster using Kubernetes.  ? Setting up the CI/CD pipeline using GitHub, Jenkins, Maven, Chef, Terraform and AWS.  ? DevOps experience with GitHub, Maven, Nagios, Docker, Jenkins, Puppet, Chef, Ansible.  ? Virtualized the servers using the Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs, and configuration automation using Docker Containers  ? Integrated Kafka with Spark streaming for high speed data processing.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using, Jasmine, Karma, HTML, CSS, LESS, RESTFUL API Services, JavaScript, Bootstrap, GIT, and JSON.  ? Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using, Jasmine, Karma, HTML, CSS, LESS, RESTFUL A Having good experience in Struts, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Boot, Spring Security and other spring frameworks implementation and integration.  ? Followed Agile SCRUM methodology and used Test Driven Development (TDD) and Used BDD pattern for code quality and good readability standards  ? Worked on Redux making to do list reduces, reducers functions and implementing store method PI Services, JavaScript, Bootstrap, GIT, and JSON.  ? Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring.  ? Configured Struts, Hibernate framework with Spring MVC.  ? Written the Grok pattern in Logstash.  ? Configured Logstash: input, filter, output plugins - database log file sources and elastic search as output Python developer Aetna - Hartford, CT August 2011 to July 2013 Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  ? Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and conducted meetings among peers.  ? Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications  ? Designed, Installed and Implemented Ansible configuration management system.  ? Used Ansible to manage Web applications, Environments configuration Files, Users, Mount points and Packages.  ? Involved in database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization.  ? Executed asynchronous tasks with help of Celery and RabbitMQ.  ? Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance and monitoring  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Vast experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including JDBC, Spring, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Hibernate.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and used Test driven approach for developing applications.  ? Cloud platform engineering Kubernetes, Spinnaker, Docker, Terraform, Consul, drone Jenkins, Chef, Kitchen.  ? Scheduled, deployed and managed container replicas onto a node cluster using Kubernetes.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  ? Involved in installing software using pip command for python libraries like Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, python-twitter, RabbitMQ, Celery, matplotlib, Pandas data-frame and used the PEP8 coding convention.  ? Managed local deployments in Kubernetes, creating local cluster and deploying application containers.  ? Build back-end application with Python / Django, Worked on Dockers, RabbitMQ, Celery, and Jenkins.  ? Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  ? Expertise in working with server-side technologies including Databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  ? Used the Python modules NumPy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  ? Involved in migrating the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle OCCI API.  ? Automate Build and Release tasks using ANT, Shell, and Perl for efficiency and repeatability  ? Communication with team members for both Ansible Core and Ansible Tower teams to clarify requirements and overcome obstacles  ? Automated various service and application deployments with ANSIBLE on CentOS and RHEL in AWS.  ? Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS  ? Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  ? Used Python Libraries Pandas and NumPy, SQL and Tableau to procure, clean and aggregate data from Relational database to generate status reports and dashboards. Education Bachelor's Skills APACHE KAFKA (8 years), AWS (8 years), DJANGO (8 years), KAFKA (8 years), MYSQL (8 years), Flask, Java, Python, Javascript Additional Information SKILLS  Programming Skills Python 2.7/ 3.5, Java/J2EE, C, C++  Django, Flask, Cherrypie, web2py, Google App Engine, Pyramid, Tornado  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2, Node.JS, React JS, , TypeScript, Backbone JS, React JS ,MySQL, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, kubernetes, spinnaker, MongoDB, , R, Shell (Bash, ZSH, KSH, etc.), HTML, Xml, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google cloud, IBM Bluemix .PyCharm, percona, Redis, RabbitMQ, Kafka, riak, spring framework ,Logstash, Kibana, graphite, influx DB, Grafana  AWS Services S3, VPC, EC2, RDS, Glacier, DynamoDB, ansible, docker