Web Developer Intern Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Web Developer Intern - Hungry MarketPlace Fairfax, VA Astute Computer Science Engineer enthusiastic about developing practical and time saving software solutions.  My skills include Database Management Systems, Object Oriented Programming, Software Development  LifeCycle(SDLC) methodologies, Software Development, Web Development and Database Performance. Work Experience Web Developer Intern Hungry MarketPlace - Arlington, VA April 2018 to Present • Developing new user facing features using ReactJS  • Building reusable components and front end libraries for future use.  • Translating designs and wireframes into high quality code.  • Optimizing components for maximum performance across a vast array of web-capable devices and browsers.  • Working with Ruby on Rails on the back-end for complete database migrations  • Developed functional, unit, and integration tests for application quality assurance. Full Stack Developer Intern Infosys - Mysore, Karnataka January 2016 to May 2016 • Collaboratively created EWHEELZ travel reservation webapp using ASP.NET MVC.  • Participated in JAD (Joint Application Design) sessions to gather requirements, analyze, create design documents and perform impact analysis for application changes  • Created a separate controller for each type of travel reservation - bus, flight, taxi, train and hotel bookings to enable  information and preference re-usability.  • Maintained and enhanced the basic sql scripts required for updating data in the database (FIREBIRD). Python Developer and Webmaster Intern Synfosys Business Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 to August 2015 Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track sales and perform sales analysis using Flask,  SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Maintained customers relationship management databases (MySQL / PostgreSQL)  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Organized and scheduled weekly team meetings, took meeting minutes and distributed to the project team to ensure seamless communication amongst cross-functional teams.  • Managed company's virtual servers at Amazon EC2, S3 Education Master of Science in Computer Science George Mason University - Fairfax, VA May 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering Sri Ramaswamy Memorial University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2016 Skills AJAX (Less than 1 year), AUTHENTICATION (Less than 1 year), BOOTSTRAP (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Javascript, Angular, NET Links https://github.com/SrimanRao19 Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Java, Python, C, C#, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript  Frameworks Django, Angular JS, React JS(Library), NodeJs, Bootstrap(Library)    Operating Systems Windows, Linux  Version Control Git  GitHub https://github.com/SrimanRao19  Software Eclipse, BlueJ, VISIO, Visual Basic    Methodologies Software Development Lifecycle(SDLC)    Projects  Smart Home System August-December'16  • Implemented Smart Home system software consisting of the features such as Central monitor, Mobile monitors, Smart  mailbox, Smart front door etc using UML.  • Implemented use case diagram depiction and activity diagrams for each use case in the requirement phase.  • Developed a context class diagram for each of the subsystems/components in the architecture and also developed a  state machine for each model.  • Created an executable implementation of the HVAC system using Java - primarily focusing on the Temperature Control  class.  George Mason University CS Department Survey Page August- December'17  • Created an a Web site to provide information about the Computer Science (CS) department at George Mason University  including a Survey Form using XHTML/HTML5 and CSS.  • Enhanced the page using JavaScript functionality. Implemented JDBC/JPA API to store and process student input.  • Demonstrated how to use cookie, JavaScript functions, event handling, jQuery, and Ajax implementation of the page  • Worked on server side processing of the Student Survey Form data via MVC implementation using a RequestDispatcher  object. Made the application tightly coupled using Struts framework and compared the performance.  Time Based Two Factor Authentication to Prevent Relay Attacks in NFC Communication August-December'17  • Initiated the project to create a two-factor based authentication for preventing relay attacks on NFC communication  using the concept of time delays.  • Examined and portrayed a relay attack and showed how to prevent the attack using time-based authentication where a  relay attack took more time than a normal NFC Communication.  • Worked with Raspberry Pi, Arduino, PN532 Shield to complete the project.  • Demonstrated particular interest in using LibNFC and Python for calculating the time for transmissions.