Associate Data Scientist Associate Data Scientist San Jose, CA Seeking for a full time software engineer position Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Data Scientist University of Oregon AIM Lab - Eugene, OR September 2016 to November 2016 • Developed a Natural Language Processing(NLP) Python applicaLon by Concurrent Neural Network to predict a  sentence by given 3 seed words.  • Created a Python scraper to collect training and tesLng arLcle from various new websites. • Hands on experience about how to apply pandas Data Frame for data analysis. Python and PHP Developer Peekabuy - San Mateo, CA August 2016 to August 2016 • Created a fully functional image processing Python application to crop clothing from photos.  • Designed and combined algorithms to save 90% running time.  • Applied RGB and PIL to process images to collect related clothing’s vision information.  • Enhanced accuracy by shrinking image to get main hue, cutting unrelated background, etc.  • Talked with server to upload all cropped image automatically.  • Developed a website to communicate with server to show all results. iOS/Swift2 Developer Self - Eugene, OR March 2016 to April 2016 • Created a RSS reader to show news titles and images from TechCrunch.  • Used NSXMLParser to parse article titles, links, images from TechCrunch’s XML page.  • Applied UITableView to show article titles and images of news.  • Redirected users to TechCrunch’s website via UIWebView.  • Provided neat UI design with simple operations to make it user friendly to all ages users from 3 to 80.  • Hands on experience of using external info resource to support app development. Java Developer Self - Eugene, OR February 2016 to March 2016 • Predicted a user’s rating to a specific song  • Applied Java to do data preprocessing, data table combination, cleaning, transformation and selection  • Compared 6 different algorithms’ results by using 70% clean data for training and the rest of 30% for testing  • Trained and tested data by each algorithm on Weka to get its accuracy value  • Hands on experience of applying AI algorithms and knew pros and cons of each algorithm PHP/MySQL Developer Self - Eugene, OR January 2016 to February 2016 • Built a website for hotel managers to edit, update, delete their hotels’ basic info, images on server.  • Gave managers’ right to access to their accounts to check guests’ contact and booking info.   • Enhanced 20% safety coefficient by protecting managers’ accounts with encryption technique.  • Designed extendable database and developed web by MVC pattern to keep its expandability. C++ Developer Self - Eugene, OR October 2015 to October 2015 • Built a handy cross-platform desktop application runs on Mac and Windows for users to manage contact info.  • Cooperated with teammates to construct the project, write design document and guide.  • Applied QWidget to create all user interface objects  • Implemented QFile to export, import contact info files to application  • Hands on experience for Qt’s basic, border, flow layout. iOS/Swift Developer SELF - Eugene, OR June 2015 to August 2015 • Created a travel diary mobile application which can access to device’ photos and geographical location.  • Implemented Core Data to store password, diary, photos, location info locally.  • Enhanced 20% user privacy safety by secure login and only user allowed per device  • Extensive understanding for CoreLocation, UIImagePickerController, AutoLayout and hands on experience  using Swift (1.2). Education Bachelor's in Computer and Information Science University of Oregon - Eugene, OR 2012 to 2016 Skills Python (2 years), Java (2 years), PHP (1 year) Links https://github.com/Tangzekun https://www.linkedin.com/in/tangzekun https://angel.co/zekun-tang-1 Additional Information Skills  Programing Languages: Swift, Python, Java, MySQL, C, C++, PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript  IDE: Xcode, Eclipse  OS: Linux, Mac, Windows  Tools: Workbench, Github, Bitbucket, AWS