Job Seeker Columbia, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Pose CAPTCHA Implementation in Web Apps March 2018 to April 2018 Developed a small Blogging website with Django and implemented the CAPTCHA, which involved  Pose Estimation.    • Designed a more secure and intuitive approach of CAPTCHA that makes access harder for robots/bots and easy for humans with the help of ML/DL models and Computer Vision. Python Developer - Internship Broadcast Wearables Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2018 to March 2018 • Worked on developing a patent pending idea with python using OpenCV, Tensorflow and Django.    • Created web interfaces and UI used to interact with webcams for Pose Estimation. Student Research Member Vardhaman College - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2018 to March 2018 • Practiced and covered basic image processing operations.    • Helped in calculations, data processing and organization for professors.    • Formed tables and graphs of the required data obtained after passing through algorithms using  pandas and matplotlib modules in Python. Software Developer - Internship Host Analytics Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2017 to December 2017 • Worked on ADC server and in-house OLAP server solutions.    • Reported to Supervisor and attended SCRUM meetings to work on and build additional features.    • Maintained and developed code in a git repository and pushed those updates after code review. Host Analytics R Studio August 2017 to August 2017 Predictive Budgeting Aug 2017  • Implemented Machine Learning algorithms (Correlation and Anomaly Detection) using R to test data  that shows optimal test case scenarios in R Studio.  • Gathered Data to test the prototype model and show case scenarios.  • Developed RESTful API's in C# .NET Framework to use R machine learning logic in the Host Analytics  Cloud EPM suite for financial reporting to predict future budget plans based on the previous ones. Reviewsis, Twitterment March 2017 to March 2017 • Implemented NLP and sentiment analysis with the texblob Python module.  • Developed a Tkinter interface to extract and perform analysis on tweets obtained from Twitter APIs. Student Internship Spyry Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2016 to January 2017 • Covered various cyber security related topics in live environments.  • Cracked into a client's website to report flaws and patch them.  • Presented a report and presentation on what I did in the internship. Glitch Website 2016 to December 2016 Created a website to demonstrate website vulnerabilities and how to patch them up. Technolites Website September 2016 to September 2016 Worked with a team in full stack development involving HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Javascript, and PHP. Clickerr July 2015 to July 2015 Developed a windows application game in Visual Studio C# .NET Framework at a Hackathon.  Application tracked clicks in relation to time, which corresponded, to a high scoreboard. Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Maryland - Baltimore, MD May 2020 B.Tech in Information Technology in Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2018 Vardhaman College of Engineering Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), VISUAL STUDIO (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), PYTHON (Less than 1 year), IMAGE PROCESSING (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills    • Programming Languages - C, Java, Python, C# - .NET Framework, SQL, JavaScript, PHP, R, Julia, Octave.  • Operating Systems - Windows, Linux, Mac.  • Software - Proficient in Microsoft Office Suite, Visual Studio, Linux Terminal, Sublime Text, Adobe: Premier  Pro, After Effects & Photoshop, XAMPP, MySQL, MS SQL Server, Git, R Studio, Anaconda.  • OpenCV for image processing; pandas, scikit-learn and tensorflow for machine learning in Python.  • HTML, CSS and Web Frameworks - Django, Flask, AnguarJS, NodeJS. Adaptive to other Web Technologies.  • Beginner with NoSQL databases like MongoDB.