Teaching Assistant Teaching Assistant Actively seeking Full-time opportunities in the fields of Telecommunications and Wireless/Computer Networking. Philadelphia, PA To bring my strong sense of dedication, motivation, responsibility and academic qualifications to your esteemed company and build a long-term career while scripting a success story that has no precedence. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Teaching Assistant Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA April 2018 to Present -Teaching Assistant in the Computer Science department for the course 'Computer Programming 2' required for all CS Majors and Minors.  -Responsible for teaching during lab hours and holding office hours where students come to learn and/or clear doubts in programming concepts.  -Guide students to write working programs with appropriate constructs when presented with a problem description.  -Help students import and work on python modules and design Object Oriented Programs (OOPs).  -Guide students to develop games using Python and Pygame. Currency Intelligence Intern Crane Payment Innovations - Malvern, PA June 2017 to December 2017 • Research work involving Currency and their security features. Developed database of worldwide currency policies.  • Worked on different product sensor and detection configurations.  • Created a well-structured Currency Intelligence SharePoint site for the R&D team. Wireless Network Engineer Cascademic Solutions Pvt Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2015 to July 2016 • Project on "Wireless Remote Monitoring System and its Applications".  • Involved in maximizing performance of Wireless Gateways. Implemented Low power device gateways (LoRaWAN) and IoT Gateways.  • Worked on Microsoft Azure IoT hub and Amazon Web Services for cloud connectivity.  • Upgraded Remote sensing and Control applications for Industrial IoT solutions. Python Developer - Visiting Student Raman Research Institute - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2016 to June 2016 • Worked in the Astronomy and Astrophysics Department on "Radio Frequency Interference Mitigation".  • Researched issues pertaining to Radio Frequency Interference and computed filtering algorithms to mitigate it.  • Enhanced problem solving and programming skills in Python on Ubuntu. Education Master of Science in Electrical & Telecommunications Engineering Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA September 2016 to June 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Visvesvaraya Technological University - Belgaum, Karnataka September 2011 to July 2015 Skills AWK (1 year), BASH (3 years), CSS (1 year), ECLIPSE (4 years), Git (2 years), C (7 years), HTML (9 years), Javascript (1 year), Java (2 years), Python (3 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Matlab (5 years), JUnit (1 year), GNU Make (2 years), Wireshark (2 years), Windows (10+ years), Linux (4 years), Ubuntu (2 years), Cisco Packet Tracer (1 year), VOIP (1 year), Cisco Switches and routers (2 years), Vmware (1 year), JIRA (Less than 1 year), DNS (2 years), Dhcp (2 years), TCP/IP (2 years), AWS (1 year), BGP,OSPF,OSI (2 years), SNMP (1 year), Written Communication (7 years), Communications (2 years), SQL (Less than 1 year), LAN (1 year), Wan (1 year), Volatility (Less than 1 year), RF (1 year), Teamwork (7 years), Team Leader (1 year), Microsoft Azure (1 year), Information Technology (7 years), Ethernet (3 years), SDN (3 years), VPN (4 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/karthik-thalambeti-809157130 https://drexelscdc-csm.symplicity.com/profiles/karthik.thalambeti Awards Dean's Fellowship 2016-09 Scholarship grant at Drexel University. Certifications/Licenses Cisco Networking Basics Specialization- By Cisco Networking Academy - Cisco Packet tracer simulation, Build and test small data networks.  - Protocol analyzer/packet sniffer to examine data packets.  - DHCP and DNS with NAT.  - Build and secure small home LAN environments with WiFi implementation.  - Cisco switches and routers with Cisco CLI commands to test and verify connectivity. Groups IEEE Student Branch (KSIT) July 2013 to July 2015 IEEE @Drexel University September 2017 to Present Additional Information ACADEMIC PROJECTS:  ? Queueing analysis of Denial of Service attacks in Computer Networks.  - Simulated 2-D embedded Markov chains with a level eliminating algorithm analyzing security metrics of network.  ? Collaborative Intelligent Radio Network Design under DARPA guidelines.  - Developed a software defined radio agent that will sense and interpret contents of RF spectrum.  - Incorporated spectrum coexistence mechanisms with Reinforcement Learning, spectrum sensing, and throughput analysis in presence of multiple radios. Created agent using MATLAB & python(Anaconda).  ? Device-to-Device Communications underlaying Cellular Networks.  - Simulation of D2D pairs in an urban hexagonal environment with results on access rate and throughput.   ? Remote Monitoring and Billing System for Electric Energy using ARM Processor.  - Developed an automated billing system for electric energy using Light dependent resistors and ARM Cortex M3.  - It notifies consumers with the amount and due date using 8051 microcontroller and GSM Sim900A from server.  ? Door Bell Assist for Deaf with LPG and Smoke Detectors.  - Interfaced sound, LPG and smoke detectors to PIC microcontroller using Embedded C, ZigBee modules.    RELEVANT COURSEWORK:  Collaborative Intelligent Radio Network Design, Wireless Systems, Principles of Computer Networking, Performance Analysis of Computer Networks, Security Engineering, Network Security, Advanced Programming Techniques.