Web Specialist Web Specialist Web Specialist | Web Analyst | Software Engineer | Looking for Internships Rexburg, ID Inquisitive, energetic Computer Science student skilled in leadership, with a strong foundation in math, logic, and cross-platform coding. Seeking to leverage solid skills in collaboration, communication, and development, in order to develop as a Software Engineer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Specialist Brigham Young University - Idaho - Rexburg, ID April 2019 to Present • In charge of the effectiveness and visualization of the 90+ web pages for the Student Records and Registration department.   • Creating web pages, with its necessary HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, making sure that the needs of the department are met.  • Updating the CSS and the JavaScript of the existing web pages, in order to avoid student confusion and optimize the usage of the web pages. App Developer/Database Administrator Food Kart December 2018 to Present • Implementing UI/UX to allow for the data to be incorporated into the app  • Collecting and monitoring the database input of products.  • Updating data information of each catalog and of respective APIs  • Securing information by creating backups. Web Developer Freelance/Self employed February 2018 to Present Various Websites, Photography/E-commence  • Developed and structured feature-rich client websites, ensuring that all needs were met and company policies and procedures followed; created high-quality code.  • Completely updated and redesigned user experience for websites.  • Identified and eliminated website bugs to improve user experience. Team Lead - Customer Service Representative Melaleuca, The Wellness Company - Rexburg, ID August 2017 to April 2019 • Provide excellent customer service to the customer by giving a quick and effective resolution.  • Excellent listening skills with the ability to acknowledge the issue, display empathy and concern over their problem, analyze the root cause and assure a resolution.  • Engage clients to assess their needs and ensure an exceptional shopping experience with positive feedback from management regarding my communication and client interaction. Python Programmer Freelance/Self employed October 2018 to February 2019 Calculator  • Gained a deeper understanding through practicing Python knowledge.  • Developed the Calculator to use through my classes through the semester  • Able to integrate data from fellow students to base the calculations App Developer (Android/Swift) Freelance/Self employed August 2018 to January 2019 To Do List  • Implemented activities and the backend programming to allow for functionality   • Performance improvement and optimization on existing user interface forms.  • Corrected issues reported by users Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Brigham Young University - Rexburg, ID April 2017 to April 2020 Skills MySQL (1 year), Javascript (2 years), Android (1 year), Microsoft Office (10+ years), C++ (3 years), Java (2 years), Ruby (1 year), Git (1 year), Front End Development (3 years), Swift (IOS Development) (2 years), HTML 5, CSS, PHP, jQuery, Adobe Creative Suite (6 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/chrislujo Certifications/Licenses Front-End Fundamentals January 2019 to Present Learned the fundamental process and understanding to perform Front End Coding Swift Fundamentals February 2019 to Present Learned Swift Fundamentals to build efficient apps for IOS devices SQL Fundamentals January 2019 to Present Fell in love with SQL and the database incorporation Computer Programming April 2019 to Present Brigham Young University - Idaho Google Analytics Individual Qualification May 2019 to May 2020 Assessments Verbal Communication — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/w6nmgxfmjddmwq4y Data Analysis — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gwx6kksiffhj4i-l Search Engine Optimization — Familiar February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/5yfo8kr794eupthc Basic Computer Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/iozjdlpjcyeymxzr Conscientiousness — Expert February 2019 Measures a candidate's tendency to be rule-abiding, well-organized, hard-working, confident, and think before acting. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ix09fafzyyl8exn Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.