Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Capital One Varginia • Having 6+ years of experience IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Django.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Expertise in the use of Pandas and R programming for statistical analysis  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Java Script, JQuery  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, C++, MySQL, UNIX and Linux.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, C++, XML, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery  • Hands on experience in analyzing large datasets and handling database issues using Oracle Relational database 9g, 10g, 11g and also MySQL database.  • Have good knowledge on No-SQL databases like Cassandra, Mongo DB  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web service  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Designed, configured, and deployed Amazon Web Services for a multitude of applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, SQS, IAM), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Experienced in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience  • Strong knowledge on Dev Express Controls. Procedures, functions, triggers, Cursors, Indexing, importing/ exporting data from varied data sources  • Experience with Cloud Services like Heroku, Google App Engine, Amazon AWS, EC2, S3 etc.  • Hands on experience deploying projects in production and staging environment.  • Worked on various applications using Python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans and Geany.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing  • Proficient in Unit Test Plans (UTP), Integrated Test Plans (ITP) Extensive experience in User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player Work Experience Python Developer Capital One - McLean, VA July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management  • Developed Python application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting  • Worked on Python Open stack API's,used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  • Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries scikit-learn and scipy.  • Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web based application in OOP concepts.  • Worked on several python packages like Matpoltlib, cx_Freeze, Pillow, Numpy, sockets.  • Worked on ETL Processing which consists of data transformation, data sourcing and also mapping,Conversion and loading.  • Worked on design and development of Unix Shell Scripting as a part of the ETL Process to automate the process of loading.  • Worked on ETL tasks like pulling, pushing data from and too various servers.  • Tested and evaluated results for inclusion into software product.  • Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis using R Studio  • Automating Email Process, Downloading and uploading the files through Perl Scripting.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met  • Used Machine learning techniques like unsupervised Classification, optimization and prediction.  • Worked on Python open stack API's  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like open stack.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  Environment: Python 2.7,.NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX, Windows, and Python libraries. Python Developer Cigna Bloomfiled CT October 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed views and templates with Python Django's view controller and templating language to create a web interface  • Designed presentation part in JSP(Dynamic content) and HTML(for static pages).  • Design and develop ETL APIs which will automate the data mining in different database sources.  • Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using amazon elastic bean stalk.  • Use TCP/IP protocol to connect with server which has database available to connect for the ETL tool.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure ,Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Used on Django's API's to access database objects Used AWStats and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  • Prepared test data files using Linux Shell scripts, Perl script as per the business requirements.  • Responsible for design of the backend request processing system and interface between CPO and Perl scripts from scratch.  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components,platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which includes web servers, ELB, Cloud Front distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration.  • Started developing with Django and currently developing with Django 1.0.  • Created entire application using Python, Perl,PostgreSQL and Linux.  • Used Wire shark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Build high-performance streaming REST server in Flask.  • Developed user interface using HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript  • Worked on API's deploying queries, status codes, requests to retrieve data in json format  • Worked on data exchange from website using xml, java and web services  • Worked on python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database  • Coordinated with team members to improve quality assurance and mitigate risks  • Wrote stored procedures in MySQL    Environment: Python 2.7,.NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX, Windows, and python libraries such as Numpy, SQLAlchemy, etc. Python Developer Iridium Interactive Hyd - IN January 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used the Python's modules numpy, matplotlib etc for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Used Python's XML parser architectures (SAX) and DOM API for tracking small amounts of data without requiring the DB.  • Developed widgets for GUI using Tkinter, Gtk modules of Python.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Experience working with noSQL database like MongoDB and CouchDB  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi-threading functionality  • Responsible for optimizing and reengineering some of the ETL jobs by improving SQL query performance and improving table projections in multi TB Vertica database.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.    Environment: Python 2.7,2.5, Django 1.7, 1.5, HTML5, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Windows , SQL Server, Eclipse, Linux. Jr. Python Developer Beckon Dickinson - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Performed design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in python  • Worked on tuples, dictionaries, object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making algorithms  • Interacting with team members on technical programming.  • Solving production support issues (such as bug fixes, queries etc).  • Prepared documentation for the generated reports  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser  • Developed the customer complaints application using Django Framework, which includes Python code. Involved in development of main modules like CSV import, bulk content upload.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Involved in building database Model,APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an iterative web based solution.  • Used Git as a version-controlling tool to collaborate and coordinate with the team members.  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components,platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL  • Worked on UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Used Git for version control  • Monitored and troubleshot web applications  • Performed data analysis, manipulation and reporting using pivot tables and advanced functions in MS excel  Environment: Python 2.7, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX, Windows, and python libraries.. Education Masters Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science River University Bachelors Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Jagruti Engineering College - JNTU Skills CSS (6 years), HTML (6 years), JavaScript (6 years), MYSQL (6 years), Python (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages C#, Python, SQL, JAVA , shell script,Perl  Databases SQL Server 2014,2012, Oracle 9i/8.x, 10g, MYSQL, Mango DB  Other Software MS Office- 2007/2003/2000, Adobe Professional, SharePoint    Operating Systems Linux, Windows /98/2000/2003/XP/Vista/8, Unix  Data Science Tools R Language, STASTISTICA, python  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery, AngularJS