Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Discovery Communications Herndon, VA Work Experience Python Developer Discovery Communications - Silver Spring, MD January 2018 to Present Project Description: Discovery, Inc. is an American mass media company that primarily operates factual television networks. The project of "Angry Planner" is a stop gap solution for the DCI Operations and Logistics teams. It replaces the existing excel based tools that they use today to track finding sources, encoding, quality checks, and delivery of packages. It is stop gap since the plan is to move the DCI scheduling, logistics, and operations teams to the Scripps (formally) tool NLCD.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the web application using Django web framework in python3.6.  • Used Agile methodology for the Software development process.  • Used Okta module to implement authentication.  • Used GitHub and Bitbucket as Source Control Management.  • Designed the data model for the application.  • Developed the UI of the application using Django Admin, Jinja2, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed data importing utility from AWS S3 into the application.  • Implement Log Entries to the models.  • Deployed the app as a docker service.  • Implemented Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery using Jenkins, GitHub and Docker.  • Implemented xmlgen which generates xml files based on a given template.  • Developed custom manage.py commands for utilities used by operations team.  • Developed custom filters in ModelAdmin.  • worked on creating custom actions in the List View.  • Created custom forms and buttons in the Change View.  • Implemented daemon services using multi process module.  • Implemented Import/Export feature to the module.  • Responsible for release management.  • Implemented central logging for entire application using logger module.  • Developed custom forms used by operations and logistics team for updating the airing information.  • Used PostgreSQL as database deployed on remote node deployed as docker service.  • Used Pandas, Requests, Boto3, botocore, csvkit, untangle, django-auditlog, shutil, logging and other libraries in python.    Environment: Python, Django, Docker, GitHub, Xml, Jenkins, Sqlite3, PostgreSQL, gunicorn, Jinja2, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Agile, Linux. Python Developer Fannie Mae - Washington, DC April 2017 to December 2017 Project Description: Fannie Mae is a United States government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) and, a publicly traded company. The project of Single Family Forecast Framework (SF3) is a web based interface for controlling the work flow of forecast model runs and revenue/expense forecast processes. Insight Dashboard Execution Automation (IDEA) is a java based web application designed for web browser.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis of the requirement specifications and designing of modules.  • Involved in application development by coordinating requirements, schedules, and team meetings, troubleshooting. Driven best practices, quality and consistency in project development.  • Worked extensively on build and deployment tools Maven and version control Tortoise SVN.  • Involved in the code merging, reviews and impact analysis of functionality.  • Used Agile methodology and Kanban for the Software development process.  • Experienced in UNIX command line scripting.  • Used Python to write the code of the application in Eclipse Mars.  • Worked on Aginity Workbench for IBM Netezza to manage the data warehouse more efficiently for data analytics.  • Extensively developed stored procedures, triggers, functions and packages in Oracle.  • Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Oracle database with Python.  • Parsing various format of files like XML files and load into Oracle database with Python XML.  • Performed advanced querying using SAS Enterprise Guide, calculating computed columns, using filter, manipulate and prepare data for Reporting, Graphing, and Summarization, statistical analysis, finally generating SAS datasets.  • Used WinSCP for secure file transfer between a local and remote computer.  • In-depth understanding of large complex software systems to isolate defects, reproduce defects, assess risk and understand varied customer deployment.  • Assess and develop elevated level design requirements for project and communicate in writing or in meetings with team. Assess detailed specifications against design requirements.  • Review coding done to advance application upgrade, extension, or other development. Analyze applications for data integrity issues.  • Use Fannie Mae's models for the calculation of expected cashflows. Review and validate valuation inputs and results.  • Prepare reports used for management and financial reporting. Used advanced mathematical and analytical tools to create algorithms that is used for analytical and product development processes.  • Facilitated testing and validating the implementation of models, used in single-family loss allowance for modified loans.  • Responsible for assisting in the business review of the loss allowance valuations, including the comparison of valuation results to expected results and to current market and business conditions.  • Perform loss forecast analysis and reporting; perform ongoing ad hoc model development and analysis for specific clients needing elevated level quantitative analysis of credit risk, product valuation, asset analysis, and the like.  • Conduct loan level reviews of the single-family book to ensure accuracy of risk ratings.  Environment: Python 2.7, Aginity Workbench, Oracle, Eclipse Mars, Unix, SAS Enterprise Guide, Tortoise SVN, WinSCP. Python Developer Cerner April 2015 to March 2017 Project Description: Cerner Corporation is an American supplier of health information technology (HIT) solutions, services, devices and hardware. The project's main aim is to design leading-edge health information technology, and offer strategies that empower organizations to know, manage and engage their populations. We developed an application to store the details of the customers' accounts and health insurance policies.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on the project from gathering requirements to developing the entire application.  • Wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  • Wrote python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used python modules of urllib, urllib2, Requests for web crawling.  • Used with other packages such as Beautiful Soup for data parsing.  • Developed the REST API using Django for fetching the data from NoSQL MongoDB database.  • Implemented the client code for consuming the REST Web Services.  • Developed single page web application using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery for interactive cross-browser functionality.  • Used Angular JS framework for single page applications and validating the client-side user information based on their business rules.  • Responsible for debugging, testing, maintaining and deploying the application.  • Worked on Python OpenStack API's.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Also, used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Wrote and executed various RDBMS, MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Involved in development of RESTful Web Services for getting and sending data from the external interface in the JSON format.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Involved in the development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used PHP to write dynamically generated pages quickly. Experienced Python on LINUX for execution.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Web pages on the internet are generated by LINUX servers.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • I have used the Pandas API to put the data in tabular format for each timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production.  • Developed automated unit and regression testing frameworks for a highly efficient quality assurance system.  • Wrote bash scripts to deploy application using Shell Scripting.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the main applications that were sources of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Used Ansible for automating cloud deployment process.  • Used Ansible to automate workflow.  • With Ansible, creating roles, and updating playbooks to provision servers.  • Helped provision and manage AWS linux servers with Chef and Ansible.  • Design and build a text classification application using different text classification models.  • Used Jira for defect tracking and project management.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from CSV and excel file formats.  • Involved in Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile SCRUM meetings.  • Conducted every day scrum as part of the SCRUM Master role.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Held meetings with client and worked for the entire project with limited help from the client.    Environment: Python, Django, JSON, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, XML, AngularJS, SOAP, Jira, Ansible, Agile, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Python Developer Harman - Novi, MI July 2013 to March 2015 Project Description: Harman International Industries (simply called as Harman) is an American company that designs and engineers connected products for automakers, consumers and enterprises worldwide, including connected car systems; audio and visual products, enterprise automation; and connected services. The main goal of the project is to suggest the audio devices to the customers. We developed a recommendation engine for suggestions.    Responsibilities:  • Design database using Python/Django for DB scheme scripting.  • Designing and developing various machine learning frameworks using Python, R, and MATLAB.  • Develop scheme and data-level database testing tool.  • Improved fraud prediction performance by using random forest and gradient boosting for feature selection with Python Scikit-learn.  • Develop data cleansing, retrieval, migration tools (ETL).  • Analyzed client needs and developed software tools to assist dynamic site content creation ( Python, wxPython).  • Experience building solutions for enterprises, context-awareness, pervasive computing, and/or application of machine learning.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by plugins or feeds under Python, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery Technology.  • High end of experience in documentation of code and automate the processes at each step along the pipeline.  • SQL Workflow System, using Python created an adapter allowing communication between SharePoint lists and SSIS packages. This system provides users the ability to create complex automation workflows.  • Clustering data, and representational analysis (clustering, PCA, autoencoders) via Scikit-Learn and Tensor flow.  • Excel Batch uploader, software that quickly uploads large batches of Excel Workbooks into our SQL Databases, while providing sanitizing and validation services.  • SQL Naming Conventions Enforcement, Using Python; Stored Procedures created a server job that enforces naming conventions for all SQL objects. Creating a more constant SQL environment.  • Client Search Engine, Using Python and XLWings package created an excel interface to search for client info through our databases.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Hands on working with Python, Git.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Java script, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA.  • Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, R, MATLAB, MYSQL, REST API, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL, Agile, Scrum, Git, AWS, Jira, MongoDB. Python Developer Globant - Orlando, FL November 2012 to June 2013 Project Description: Globant is an IT and Software Development company which develops websites and applications. The Project's main aim is to develop an application for shopping the products in online.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed feature in Python frameworks to automate File System and database Performance, High Availability tests for scale-out converged appliance solutions decreasing the manual process.  • Develop automation framework to monitor systems.  • Good Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML.  • Perform continuous research to automate the Software Development Life Cycle of appliances on storage and networking side for performance metrics.  • Experience in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Expert in maintaining technical documentation for projects.  • Automated Running functional, performance, destructive and HA test cases on servers and database to achieve.  • Push system configuration using python to various development and test servers via Puppet/Ansible.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python, Django, JSF, Spring, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated Rabbit MQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO).  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Cassandra with MySQL, Java script and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.    Environment: Python, REST API, XML, SQL, Python Storage Libraries, GIT, Linux systems, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Puppet, Ansible, Cassandra. Python Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA October 2010 to October 2012 Project Description: Comcast is an American global telecommunications conglomerate that is the largest broadcasting and cable television company in the world by revenue. The project's main aim to develop a recommendation engine for suggesting the videos, internet packages, subscriptions based on the customer preferences.    Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web  Framework.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django. Worked with millions of databases  records on daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and Cassandra.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building  graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main  applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Build Cassandra queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update,  read and delete, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html  page layout.  • Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones and Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Updated views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create new functionalities to the website.  • Created RESTful API's calls with server, parse output JSON data and perform field by field comparison in database.  • Created Python libraries that allow the transfer of data from SQL Database to Oracle Database.  • Used Django's ORM (object-relational Mapper) to automate the transfer of data stored in database tables into objects that are more commonly used in application code.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC architecture of Django framework and conducted code reviews.  • Developed scripts using pandas to easily perform read/write operations to CSV files, manipulate and compare data by columns.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Linux bash scripting.  • Developed and maintained parsing modules, which read CSV, XML and JSON data from files and other REST services, processed the data.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.    Environment: Python, Django, Jenkins, Linux, AWS, Agile, Scrum, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, REST API, Cassandra, JSON, SOAP services, MYSQL. Java Developer CGS - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2010 to September 2010 Project Description: CGS is a IT Consulting and Staffing Company with a vision of creating a competitive advantage with Software and becoming the most valued partner of the clients. This project is for colleges to digitalize their tuition collection process. This web application is used for their entire college student population in collecting and maintain database for their tuition.    Responsibilities:  • Identified the requirements and designed the use cases for the application.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Developed Web application using Struts and Hibernate.  • Integrated front-end elements using JSP, Html5, Bootstrap, jQuery.  • Developed SOAP based Web Services and components of web services (JAX-WS), using different JAX-WS standards on the WSDL (type, message, port Type, bindings, and service).  • Used Spring Framework for dependency injection for Action classes using the Application ContextXml file.  • Created database objects like Stored Procedures, Tables, Views, Sequences, Cursors, Packages and Triggers.  • Managed the interchange of data between the server and the client.  • Designed the application architecture and implemented using MySQL database.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed all server-side logic, ensuring high performance and responsiveness to requests from the front-end.  • Wrote Junit test cases for each controller methodology and ensured maximum code coverage.  • Build the application rar using ANT build tool and deployed in apache tomcat server.  • Operated Agile Methodology in implementing the application.  • Used SVN for source control and Jira for defect tracking system.  • Update clients with weekly status reports.  • Involved in deployment of the applications in various environments.    Environment: Struts, Hibernate, Java/J2EE, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, MySQL, SVN, Junit, ANT, Agile. Education Bachelors in Information Technology in Information Technology Acharya Nagarjuna University 2009 Skills DJANGO (7 years), HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), PYTHON (8 years), XML (8 years), mysql Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python 3.5/2.7, Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets  Frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask, Struts, Hibernate, Spring  Databases MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, SQL, MongoDB, PL/SQL.  Web Technologies AJAX, Django, Angular JS, Node.js, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, HTML, XML, CSS, XSLT, Bootstrap  Web Services SOAP, RESTful  Application/Web servers Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere  IDES/Tools PyCharm, Sublime Text, Spyder, Emacs, NetBeans, Eclipse, Visual Studio, Xcode  Cloud Platforms Azure, Amazon web services  Operating Systems Linux, Unix, Windows 10, 08, 07, XP, Vista  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQLdb  Version Control Systems CVS, SVN, Git, GitHub  SDLC Agile methodologies, scrum framework