Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - PHH Mortgage Newark, NJ ? Over 6+ years of work experience in the IT industry.   ? Extensive working experience on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), its methodologies such as Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall Model.  ? Experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, Django, Java, C++, HTML.  ? Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, objects oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  ? Experience working in Java, JavaScript, and Python software development environments.  ? Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  ? Experienced with Python frameworks like Webapp2 and, Flask.  ? Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  ? Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer PHH Mortgage - Mount Laurel, NJ, US September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Used Python, Django and Pyramid frameworks to develop applications and responsible for both back-end programming and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, Angular.JS, and other technologies.  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  ? Created User Controls and simple animations using Java Script and Python.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  ? Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Used GitHub for version control.  ? Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  ? Maintained version control of Python by using GIT. (Merge, Branch, Push, and Commit).  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python to view performance.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Performed Version control using GIT.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, XHTML, JavaScript, XML, GitHub, Flash, SQLite, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer Upstate National Bank - Rochester, NY, US November 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Worked on front end frame works like Bootstrap for responsive webpages and AngularJS for Single page application.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  ? Using GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.    Environment: Python, Django, PYQT, Java, XML, Angular JS, JQuery, DOM, JSON, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, Rest, MY SQL, GIT, Windows and LINUX. Python Developer Kony Labs January 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  ? UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  ? Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Use Git for version control.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Trained users and did production support.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Python Developer Verinon - IN June 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Application architecture designed as per the requirements using spring framework.  ? Requirement Analysis and Estimation of project timelines.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Generated PDF daily and Monthly statements using Aspose PDF Kit.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  ? Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  ? Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands.  ? Undergone training on C/ C++ / Linux.  ? Worked on Socket communication layers and multithreading on Linux.  ? Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Coordinate with SMEs, other architects, and senior technical staff to identify client's needs, document assumptions, and build-out new requirements and move code through user acceptance testing.    Environment: Python, C++, HTML, CSS, TDD, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), MYSQL (6 years), SQL (6 years), LINUX (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django, Webapp2, Flask  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows Variants