Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - T - Mobile • Over 7+ years of IT Experience in design, development, testing and implementation of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid, and Struts web application frameworks.  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python.  • Experienced in working with Java, C++, HTML, XML, Angular JS, Node.JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  • Good knowledge on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity, and Security and Database applications.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9i (9.2.0.8), 10g (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4, 10.2.0.5), and 11g (11.2.0.3, 11.2.0.4).  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, and GitHub.  • Good experience in working with Web services like Amazon EC2 and Amazon s3.  • Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid, and Struts web application frameworks.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginix, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g, 11gr1), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5, 8.5.5).  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jython.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2, MySQL and MSSQL Server.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla, and JIRA.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX.  • Extensive knowledge of J2EE Architecture (JSP, JDBC, Data Source, JNDI, JMS, Servlets,).  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows 98/NT/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, UNIX, and MAC OS X.  • Experience in Agile development techniques.  • Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Experience in Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects. Work Experience Python Developer T - Mobile - Bellevue, WA June 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Work with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Worked on rebranding the existing web pages to clients according to the type of deployment.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and beautifulsoup (b4) to perform unit testing.  • Used many regular expression in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git. Python Developer Paypal Corporation - Sanjose, CA, US August 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Writing backend programming in Python.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Creating invitation flow for customers to use the client portal for monitoring PHR pages.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Agile web development using Django/ Python  • Managed a small team of programmers using a modified version of the agile development.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and beautiful soup (b4) to perform unit testing.  • Worked on translation of web pages to different languages as per client requirements.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service and etc.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Worked on rebranding the existing web pages to clients according to the type of deployment.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  Environment: Python 2.7, 2.5, Django 1.7, 1.5, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Node.js, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, MS SQL Server, Nginix server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Beautifulsoup, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, and MAC OSX. Python developer Panduit Corporation - Tinley Park, IL December 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Writing backend programming in Python.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Implemented web applications in Flask, Zope frame works following MVC architecture.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Used many regular expression in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Hanesbrands Inc - Winston-Salem, NC April 2012 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Taken part in software development life cycle (SDLC) of the tracking systems Requirements, gathering,  Analysis, Detail Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  • Created UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, and JQuery.  • Implemented business logic using Python Web frame work Django.  • Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frame works.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python.  • Worked on CSS Bootstrap to develop web applications.  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Implemented Model View Control architecture in developing web applications using Django frame work.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webScrapping.ss.  • Developed applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implement code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  Environment:: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, CSS Bootstrap, Pyramid, Zope, MySQL, MS SQL, T-SQL, Jasper Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Infinity Info Systems - New York, NY January 2011 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on developing internal testing tools written in Python.  • Performed optimization of test server by implementing multiprocessing for the caching system.  • Improved user experience.  • Performed client side validations using JavaScript and server side validations using various other frameworks like Django.  • Designed and developed the UI using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Improved caching system for the test webserver.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml/etree libraries.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Worked with UNIX like OS on regular basis.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.2, HTML5/CSS, AJAX, SQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, Bugzilla, Git, GitHub, Amazon EC2 Python/JAVA Developer Trigent Software Ltd - Bangalore, Karnataka March 2010 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Java and Python using Web Frameworks.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Java, Python, Struts 1.2, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Java Developer Hucon Solutions - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh June 2008 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • Work with team of developers on Java applications for RISK management.  • Made Struts web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using JAVA.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked with UNIX like OS on regular basis.  Environment: Java, Struts 1.2, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Education Bachelors in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Additional Information Technical Skills:  Frameworks Django, Flask, Zope, PyJamas, Jython, Struts and CSS Bootstrap  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS, Node.JS  Programming Languages Python, Java, C/C++, PERL, SQL and PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JNDI, JDBC and JMS.  Version Control SVN, CVS, Git, GitHub.  Analytic Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, NodeXL  Application servers Apache Tomcat, Nginix, JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases Oracle (9i,10g, 11g), My SQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB  IDE's/ Development Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, and Sublime Text.    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2  Testing Tools Bugzilla, Crucible and JIRA.