Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Sunnyvale, CA • Around 6+ years of experience in development of all phases of SDLC including design, development, testing, implementation and support using Python technologies.  • Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/3.0, Django 1.4/1.3, Java, Angular.js, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on several standard python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, WxPython, PyTables and Scikit-learn.  • Good experience in working with Amazon Web Services like EC2, Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage), Elastic Load Balancers (ELBs).  • Expertise in working with different databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache, NGINX.  • Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and SVN.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities. Work Experience Python Developer Mercedes Benz - Sunnyvale, CA January 2017 to November 2018 Worked on development of Warranty processing system for Mercedes dealers for USA locations.  • Worked with team and internal clients to Design and analyze the requirements for the applications.  • Worked on LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Django.  • Developed responsive UI using HTML5/CSS3, AngularJS and Javascript.  • Developed database layer including Tables and Stored procedures in MYSQL.  • Ported parts of application on cloud using AWS.  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  • Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization/debug at the deployment site  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, Amazon EC2, Amazon SQS, S3, HTML5/CSS3, AngularJS,  JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer DIRECTV - San Jose, CA November 2014 to December 2016 Worked on development of Marketing/Sales promotion system for DIRECTV.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created database-using MySQL, Wrote queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, and object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Documented the problems and progress of project most accurately.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Git for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Apache and Linux. Python Engineer Asarva Chips & Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2012 to August 2014 Involved in design and develop state of the Art Wireless Semiconductor solutions for the next generation products within the Automotive, Home Automation, Medical and Networking fields.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Used Python, PHP, CGI, JavaScript and JSON.  • Engineered stable, isolated environments per game team.  • Responsibilities include RTL Design, test cases/test bench development for verification  • Performed simulation, functional code coverage, synthesis and static timing analysis  • Involved in networking protocols literature survey and protocol design.  • Developed AMBA AHB Protocol that was used for high bandwidth shared bus interconnects.  • Responsibilities included RTL design and development of test bench for verification  • Involved in IP Development  • Developed Queue Manager block, that was part of SoC  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  Environment: Python, C++, UML, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Linux and Windows NT. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University Skills Languages: Python 2.7/3.0, Java, Shell Script, C++, SQL • Framework: Django 1.3/1.4 • Database: MySQL, SQL Server, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Amazon AWS cloud, Amazon Cloud EC2, Elastic Bean, Amazon S3, • Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS, Javascript, pyQT, pY2EXE, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML • Versioning Tools: Git, Mercurial, Perforce, SVN, CVS • Appl/Web servers: Apache, NGIX • Operating systems: Linux/Unix, MAC OS, FreeBSD, XINU (6 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/AnuradhaPatil7 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Languages: Python 2.7/3.0, Java, Shell Script, C++, SQL  • Framework: Django 1.3/1.4  • Database: MySQL, SQL Server, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Amazon AWS cloud, Amazon Cloud EC2, Elastic Bean, Amazon S3,  • Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS, Javascript, pyQT, pY2EXE, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  • Versioning Tools: Git, Mercurial, Perforce, SVN, CVS  • Appl/Web servers: Apache, NGIX  • Operating systems: Linux/Unix, MAC OS, FreeBSD, XINU