Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - GE HealthCare Waukesha, WI • Over 7 years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python 3.4, Python 2.7, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, SciPy, matPlotLib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, Emacs.  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework. Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT), Perl, Python scripting.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Well aware of SDLC, Waterfall, Test-driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum Methodologies.  • Experience in working with deployment tools like Microsoft Azure, Heroku and Jenkins.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod python.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Web Sockets and JavaScript.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Have knowledge in using C API's to write extensive application programming for using Python interpreter with C based programs.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modelling Language (UML).  • Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML and strong knowledge in frameworks Iron Python, C python.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Good knowledge of .NET Framework features including Namespace, Inheritance, and Delegates.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Good experience in Hadoop technologies like Apache Spark, Scala, SparkSQL.  • Experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stock.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding.  • Experience in analysing and handling large database using Oracle Relational data Architecture.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum), involved in daily stand-up meetings. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer GE HealthCare - Waukesha, WI April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Actively Participated in developing MR Test framework for testing the MR Scanners using Python.  • Created UML diagrams like Sequence, Activity and class diagrams for the spike's.  • Created Python scripts and modules in order to automate the MR scanner.  • Written Python scripts to run the HAST (Highly Accelerated Stress Testing).  • Updated test scripts to collect the KPI (Key Performance Indicator) values and store it in database.  • Enhanced Dashboard using R and Shiny web application framework to display the results of the tests.  • Generated Bar graphs showing the test status and also generated KPI graphs across all use cases.  • Designed and developed the UI using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Statistical analysis was carried out using Pandas and google time-series charts.  • Used sqlite3 as a primary relational database and developed a design to migrate to PostgreSQL in a mere future.  • Created an internal application using python Flask and also deployed it on Apache httpd server.  • Created procedures for testing using Electric Commander.  • Migrated procedures from Electric Commander to Jenkin's pipelines.  • Performed unit testing, regression testing and continuous integration testing using Electric Commander.  • Used Perforce as the Version Control System and submitted the code in code collaborator.  • Captured high level documentation of all the tasks that were assigned using the tool Confluence.  • Development of code on RedHat Linux operating system.  • Working in a SAFe (Scaled Agile Framework) methodology.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Participated in Daily Stand-up meetings and worked in onsite-offshore model.  Environment: Python 3.4, Sqlite3, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, R, Shiny, Rstudio, Eclipse, RedHat Linux Sr. Python Developer Pandora, NY March 2015 to March 2017 Pandora Internet Radio is a music streaming and automated music recommendation service powered by the Music Genome Project. The service, operated by Pandora Media, Inc., is available only in Australia, New Zealand, and the United States. Pandora is free, personalized radio that plays music you'll love. Discover new music and enjoy old favourites  Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package to retrieve information.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component. The PHP page for displaying the data uses AJAX to sort and display the data. The page also outputs data to .csv for viewing in Microsoft Excel.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  • Development of Python API's to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Written functional Php unit test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, Curl, XML, JSON, REST base services and MongoDB.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and matPlotLib.  • Usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria. Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured complex Apache configuration files.  • Added support for Amazon AWSS3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Writing Python scripts with Cloud Formation templates to automate installation of Auto scaling, EC2, VPC, and other services.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used third party JQuery based plug-ins like JQuery UI, Data tables etc. Heavily used JavaScript for Form Submit and other UI elements during development.  • Utilize in-depth knowledge of Technical experience in LAMP and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer. Python Developer Walmart August 2013 to February 2015 Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., doing business as Walmart, is an American multinational retail corporation that operates a chain of hypermarkets, discount department stores and grocery stores. Provides a wide array of electronics, apparel, baby, sports, toys and fitness. Includes a store finder and blog  Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed UDF's using python and also implemented graphs using python with big data analytics.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python and created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Worked on various environment Python, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, git, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Python developer Solar Turbines, CA April 2012 to July 2013 Solar Turbines Incorporated, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar Inc., designs and manufactures industrial gas turbines for onshore and offshore electrical power generation, for marine propulsion. Provides industrial gas turbines for power generation, natural gas compression, and pumping systems  Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Created UI using Java script and HTML5/CSS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matPlotLib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping.ss.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3. Sr. Python Developer Visa, Inc - Foster City, CA October 2011 to March 2012 Visa Inc. is an American multinational financial services corporation headquartered in Foster City, California, United States. Visa is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, banks and governments in more than 200 countries and territories.  Responsibilities  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python) Architecture.  • Used Django framework in developing web applications to implement the Model View Control architecture.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Deployed the application in UAT and Production Web Sphere environment.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  • Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors).  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis & Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Created Windows CE application for reading RFID tags using WJR7000 RFID radio module with C# in Visual Studio 2008.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  Environment: Python 2.7, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django 1.4. Python Developer Beckton Dickinson - IN August 2010 to September 2011 BD is a global medical technology company that is advancing the world of health by improving medical discovery, diagnostics and the delivery of care.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end using HTML, XML, DHTML and JSP.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Use Git for version control.  • Performed Unit and system testing.  • Trained users and did production support.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Skills CSS (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), AJAX (6 years), HTML (6 years), XML (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating systems Windows, Linux Ubuntu, Red hat Linux  Languages Java, Python, R, Perl, Ruby  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, numpy, SciPy, matPlotLib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2  Web Technologies CSS, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, Shell Scripting  Analytics Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL, MVC3  Mark-up languages HTML, XML, JSON  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, WebLogic, RESTful web services  Databases Oracle, My SQL, query languages: PL, SQL  Deployment tools MS Azure, Heroku, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Spyder, PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, PyDev, RIDE  Version Control CVS, GitHub , Git  Bug Tracking Tools Axosoft, JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  SDLC Methods Object Oriented Programming, C API, UML, Agile Scrum  MS office tools Microsoft Excel (Super user), Microsoft word, Microsoft PowerPoint.