Python / Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> / Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python / Full Stack Developer - Cigna Health Insurance Edison, NJ, NJ • Over 6 years of IT experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with an analytical programming using Python, Django, MySQL and JavaScript.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on time.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python.  • Successfully migrated the code from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity using Django and experience in Object Oriented Design.  • Familiar with various python packages like numpy, scipy, pandas, urllib.  • Used Python Data structures like lists, dictionaries, tuples.  • Experience in implementing with server side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with Django framework.  • Experience in writing ETL script using python Django setting for database operations and other activities like extracting, transforming and loading.  • Developed a framework - python Unit tests to insert, upsert, delete and various SQL opeartions.  • Well versed withdesign and development of layers for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS and Javascript.  • Experienced in developing test automation framework with Python and Selenium.  • Experience in multi threading and synchronization.  • Good experience of Web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Experienced in version control tools GIT and SVN.  • Proficient in using Relational Databases like My SQL, Oracle, SQL Server, Teradata and other databases in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and PL SQL database.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Detailed oriented and resourceful in the completion of projects with an ability to multitask and meet strict deadlines. Work Experience Python / Full Stack Developer Cigna Health Insurance - Bloomfield, CT September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Develop, test, deploy and maintain the application.  • Worked with UI team to maintain and monitor the application using JAVA and Python.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse csv files and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Tested SQL scripts in python.  • Designed test cases and test plans, and developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Teradata, Linux/Windows, GIT, SVN. Python Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ November 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Performed data migration and developed Python / Django based web application, Postgre SQLDB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Python Object Oriented Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Validated huge data and worked on python backend scripting.  • Automated the developed web application/portal and developed Python Automation Scripts using Selenium IDE.  • Involved in validating the Web Services related to Customer, Account and Transaction Management using the RESTful UI.  • Create shared Object repository, Selenium Library Function, saved all components functions in Library Functions in Selenium library.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed debugging and troubleshooting the web applications using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Created Python scripts to validate based on the keyword-driven testing, test cases.  • Developed for fully automated continuous integration system using Python and Bash scripting.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, CSS, HTML, JQuery, Pandas, MySQL, GIT. Python Developer Hyatt Corporation - Atlanta, GA April 2016 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Part of Core team implementing API design and Development in integrating different components  • Developed libraries implementing business logic related to client/patient profile data and search features  • Provided production support for issues related to backend services as well as UI related issues  • Experience with bug-tracking through JIRA, source code management and team collaboration software such as GIT, SVN etc  • Responsible for system debugging in UAT, performance improvement for customer issues and field trials. Solved numerous customer issues.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts for batch jobs as well as testing the application.  • Worked on Continuous Integration of Centralized equipment system, which is primarily responsible for design components for using Python.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  Environment: Python 2.7, SVN, UNIX, PL/SQL, Selenium. Python Developer Dealertrack - Lake Success, NY August 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back testing and the into various worker processes  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, SQL Server, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  • Performed Data migration and schema normalization in NoSQL database.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Organized test suites for both unit testing and integration testing  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQLAlchemy.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, PHP, NoSQL, Unix, MS SQL Server 2012, Linux, Shell Scripting, jQuery, GitHub, Jenkins. Python /Software Developer NetCore Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Created Data extract jobs using Python/SQL.  • Thorough use of third-party packages, such as Fabric.  • Coordinated with product owners and technical team members for preparation and review of solution based documentation.  • Developed scalable infrastructure solutions and related components in collaboration with technical leads.  • Worked with the stakeholders to gather requirements.  • Designed User Interface for data selection using Python.  • Provided technical assistance for maintenance, integration and testing of software solutions during development and release processes.  • Ensured quality by versioning with GIT.  • Created UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  Environment: Python, MySQL, Linux. Python / Software Developer Hdfc - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Mortgage and lending division.  • Implemented the mortgage application backend using Php, Django and Python software.  • Used Django database API's to access database objects.  • Involved in creating Comprehensive Capitol Analysis and its review (CCAR)  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Designed, developed installed, configured and maintained Open LDAP Security Test Bed. As well as Imported/Exported User Data and installed, configured, updated and maintain Security Encryption testing.  • Designed, developed, coded, tested and implemented Security Audit Log Analytical Report Service and IAM/ WebServices using Oracle 11g Application Development Framework.  • Analyzing the data in design database.  • Maintenance of legacy application that developed in Php.  Environment: Python 2.6, LDAP, Php, Cassandra 0.6, Linux, HTML. Skills PYTHON (6 years), LINUX (5 years), HTML (5 years), DJANGO (4 years), Git (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Databases MySQL, Teradata, Oracle, PostgreSQL, Microsoft SQL server and NoSQL  Languages Python 2.7/3.5, Java, SQL  Frameworks Django, Flask, PyUnit  Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Development Tools PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, Eclipse, PuTTy, Rally, Jenkins, Pylint, Notepad++  Operating systems Windows 79x/XP/2000, Linux, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, RHEL 7, Ubuntu, Fedora.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Python Libraries Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, Pandas, Numpy, matplotlib, PyTables, pdb  Version Control Git, SVN  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, Java Script XML.  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Scrum