Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - General Motors Saginaw, MI * 8 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML5/CSS3, AngularJS, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  * Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  * Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  * Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  * Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  * Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++, Java and Django.  * Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  * Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora).  * Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, and JQuery.  * Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  * Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google AppEngine.  * Experience with v-model designing, involved in the Integration, Test, Verification stage Proficient in all cycles of test life cycle from test planning to defect tracking and managing defect lifecycle.  * Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  * Good experience in Python, Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework.  * Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  * Automation experience using Selenium IDE/RC/ Web Driver and TestNG frameworks  * Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  * Expertise in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL, multithreading, data structures and design patterns. Experienced with Python frameworks likeWebapp2 and, Flask.  * Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development(TDD) and Load Testing.  * Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies.  * Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD. Strong proficiency in version control systems like SVN, Git.  * Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB and Cassandra.  * Well versed in writing unit test cases and selenium test cases.  * Experience with JSP Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat. Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule. Created and maintained effective budgets.  * Highly motivated, result oriented professional with a short learning curve and strong communication skills.  * Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer General Motors - Saginaw, MI July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Setup database in AWS using RDS and configuring backups for S3 bucket.  • Experience in setting up Elastic Load Balancers (ELB's) and Auto Scaling groups on Production EC2 Instances to build Fault-Tolerant and High Availability applications.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy, and PostgreSQL.  • Creating Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex.auto config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom Fortigate firewall config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate configs for multiple firewalls at once).  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services such as EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, Elastic Load Balancer.  • Involved in writing SQL queries implementing functions, triggers, cursors, object types, sequences, indexes etc.  • Created Data tables utilizing MySQL utilized Jinja to access data and display it in the front end.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated with the releases.  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, TestNG.  • Strong knowledge of all phases of SDLC and Strong working knowledge of Software testing (Functional Testing, Regression Testing, Load Testing).  • Experienced in designing Test Plans and Test Cases, Verifying and Validating Web based applications  • Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Subversion (SVN).  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Performed testing with RSpec, FactoryGirl, Capybara, and Selenium. Performed Continuous  • Integration with Jenkins.    Environment: Python, AWS, EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, PyCharm, Selenium IDE, JQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Web Services, Pandas, JSON, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Jinja, Flask, MongoDB, SQL Workbench. Sr. Python Developer VISA - San Francisco, CA December 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:    • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  • Written Cloud formation templates and deployed AWS resourcing.  • Build application and database servers using AWS EC2 and create AMIs alsousing RDS for Oracle DB.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Written with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, git.  • Having Knowledge on AWS Lambda, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, RDS, Route53, AWS SNS, SQS, SES.  • Gained Knowledge on Deploying apps using AWS Cloud Formation.  • Experience in using various version control systems like Git, CVS, GitHub, Heroku and Amazon EC2.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub  • Part of team implementing REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQLAlchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Developed programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python, Java, Bash script and Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey and Java Script  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Involved in Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  • Utilized PyUnit the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Built Continuous Integration environment (Jenkins, Nexus) and Continuous delivery environment (puppet).  • Achieved 100% coverage of user slice Ruby codebase by writing unit tests with RSpec and Capybara.  • Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure  • Implemented Automated Application Deployment using Puppet.  • Implemented Junit test runner class to call test cases in Cucumber.  • Working closely with Web Administrators to understand, participate, and experience the technical architect for web sites such as Apache, Web Sphere; and deploying J2EE Applications to these environments.  • Recommended build management, defect management development process flow. Administrator of SVN.  • Involved in editing the existing ANT/MAVEN files in case of errors or changes in the project requirements    Environment: Python, Git, CVS, GitHub, Lambda, Heroku, Amazon EC2 Django 1.5, Selenium IDE, MySQL, Zope, Angular.JS, Pandas, Flash, PyUnit, Open Stack, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Jira, Linux, Git, Cassandra, Windows, Linux. Web / Python Developer Wright Patt Credit Union Inc - Columbus, OH October 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:    • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations, data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration,  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django  • Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands  • Led the development of parsers for handling JSON, XML responses and JAXB binding  • Worked with JMS (java messaging service) for asynchronous communication  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery  • Built client pages using HTML, JSP, XML to interact with users, and the business logic is implemented using Servlets and Java Beans  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval  • Publish and Consume Contract First SOAP web services using spring & Restful Web services using Jersey  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Worked on JMS components for asynchronous messaging  • Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading  • Implemented code MVC2 framework using JSP's JavaBeans & Servlets  • Utilized Python libraries NumPy, Twisted and matPlotLib  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery,  • Worked on various environment Python, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, git, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts.    Environment: AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, JSP, Servlets, Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript Jquery, JavaScript, Shell Scripts. Python Developer Bloomberg, Greater New York City - New York, NY September 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:    • Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend of applications.  • Responsible for analysing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on Angular JS framework to develop interactive websites based on client needs.  • Successfully migrated the website's main database from MySQL to PostgreSQL.  • Helped the big data analytics team with implementation of python scripts for Sqoop, spark and Hadoop batch data streaming.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Actively involved in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and also in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  • Analysis the logs data and filter required columns by logstash configuration and send it to elastic search.  • Handled Business logics by backend Python programming to achieve optimal results.  • Implementing admin sites to manage database information with Flask Admin, MySQL and SQLite.  • Involved building Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Generated various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Tested various regular expressions in URL Dispatchers in Django.  • Developed frontends using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Designed and created the database tables and wrote SQL queries to access PostgreSQL.  • Analysed and Designed workflows based on business logic.  • Designed user friendly Interface using Bootstrap framework.  • Wrote python code within the Hadoop framework to solve Natural Language Processing problems.    Environment: Python, Django, JSON, REST, AWS, Hadoop framework, HTML, MVT, Mongo DB, JavaScript, Ajax, PyQT, PyUnit, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Python Developer Gallo Wine Company - Modesto, CA April 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:    • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and Java Script (J Query).  • Built application logic using Python, used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Description Bluetooth enabled camcorder Embedded in a headset to enable hands-free audio and video recording with optical zoom capability.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Created Data tables to display customer information and add, delete, update customer records using Python, MySQL and XHTML.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Written queries in HQL and Native SQL and criteria API.  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view utilizing Python based GUI components.  • Implemented marshalling and UN marshalling XML to HTML and HTML to XML.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Actively participated in System Testing, production support and maintenance/patch deployments.  • Worked on RUP development environment and used Rational ClearCase for versioning.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle 9i SQL, PL/SQL.  • Developed test cases using Python unit test, pylint and nose.    Environment: Python, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, PyQT, PyUnit, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Python Developer Analytix Data Services - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2010 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on requirement gathering and High-level design.  • Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI development.  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python and MSQL.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Used Thales theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Contributed patches back to Django.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Used several Python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.6, Scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, JASPER, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache. Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (7 years), HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), jQuery (7 years), PYTHON (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django 1.3/1.4/1.5  Databases MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g, Siebel  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, CVS  IDE Eclipse, My Eclipse, PyCharm, RAD  Web servers Apache, IIS  Debugging tools Selenium, IDE  NO SQL MongoDB, Cassandra  Network Protocols TCP/IP, Subnets, FTP, SMTP, UDP, ICMP, HTTP/HTTPS, NDS, DHCP, NFS, Cisco Routers, LAN  Cloud Technologies AWS, OpenStack  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista, Mac OSX