Python Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Full Stack Developer - Starbucks Seattle, WA • Over 8 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, flask, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Advised organizations about big data, a big data strategy, the implementation of big data, which technologies best fit the needs of the organization and even implements the selected big data solution  • High-level experience in Base SAS, SAS/Macros, SAS/SQL, SAS/Stat, SAS/Connect, SAS/Access, SAS/Graph, SAS/ODS, SAS/EBI, SAS/Grid, SAS Visualizer, SAS/ETS and SPSS modeler.  • Write MATLAB code to create discretized computer models of sloped levy geometries.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development(TDD), Load Testing.  • Experience in developing ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly-motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Full Stack Developer Starbucks - Seattle, WA April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python web applications.  • Developed Python/flask application for Starbucks service registry.  • Used flask configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used Python and flask, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Added support for Microsoft Azure and Mongo to host static/media files and the database into Azure Cloud.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Also, used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Wrote and executed various Mongo database queries from Python using Pymongo connector  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked on testing the REST Api with the python library Pytest  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on Mongo.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used the Microsoft Azure environment for deployment and testing  • Worked with the swagger for Api documentation at development phase  • Worked on Api Logging withpython library    Environment: Python, Flask, SwaggerApi, Azure, JSON, Pytest, Shell Scripting, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, XML, SOAP, Jira, Agile, SQL, MongoDB and Windows/Linux. Python Developer SunTrust - Atlanta, GA March 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • UsedPython scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • I have used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools usingPython, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also, created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Also, used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.    Environment: Python, Django, Panda API, AWS, JSON, PHP, Flash, Shell Scripting, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, XML, SOAP, Jira, Agile, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Python Developer Trustwave Holdings - Chicago, IL January 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  • Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  • Developed tools usingPython, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in Postgre SQL.    Environment: Python, Django, PyUnit, PyQt, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, AJAX, Shell scripting, GitHub, agile, Jira, SQL, T-SQL and Windows. Python Developer Legg Mason - Baltimore, MD February 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development. Framework based on CherryPy with GnuPg encryption (reGnuPg module) on the top.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Design and Setting up of environment of Mongodb with shards and replicasets. (Dev/Test and Production).  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, and Nose.  • Modifying data using SAS/BASE, SAS/ MACROS.  • Extracting data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS data sets.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed.    Environment: Python 2.7, Sypder(IDE), Windows 7, Terdata, Requests, urllib, urllib2, Beautifulsoup, Tableau. Python developer Morgan Stanley - New York, NY November 2011 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Generated PDF daily and Monthly statements using Aspose PDF Kit.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework withCSS / HTML framework.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python Developer ARIS Global - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically usingPython.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Developed Merge jobs in Pythonto extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end using HTML, XML, DHTML and JSP.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Use Git for version control.  • Performed Unit and system testing.  • Trained users and did production support.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Software Engineer Tag Info Solutions - IN September 2008 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  Environment: C++, XML, Java, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows. Skills AJAX (8 years), HTML (8 years), XML (8 years), DJANGO (6 years), MYSQL (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python3.x,2.7/2.4, Java, C++, C, Shell Script, SQL  Framework Django Web framework, MVC Framework  Databases MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL  Web Technologies AJAX, Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, PHP  Versioning Tools Git, SVN, CVS  Applications/Web Servers Apache, IIS  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows-98/NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista