Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - TATA Consultancy Services • Around 3 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Validation of various client-server applications.    • 3 years of experience in using Django framework.    • 3 years of experience in implementing Object-Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading.    • Experience in installing software using pip command for python libraries and extensive usage of the PEP8 coding convention.    • Good understanding on Django ORM.    • Worked with varieties of Relational Databases (RDBMS) like SQLite, Oracle and MySQL    • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python and Django framework.    • Well versed in design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and Bootstrap.    • Hands on experience in python (Libraries- Numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, MySQLdb for database connectivity).    • Integrated Development Environments like Eclipse and Atom.    • Good knowledge of version control software Git.    • Good understanding on implementation of continuous integrations and continuous delivery pipeline using Jenkins.    • Experience in processing large datasets for data transformation including data cleansing, data scrubbing and applying business logic rules to incoming data.    • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing.    • Experience in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies.    • Experienced in Marketing, Insurance and Health Care Domains.  • Good analytical and communication skills and ability to work independently and also perform as part of a team.  • Highly motivated team player with analytical, organizational and technical skills, unique ability to adapt quickly to challenges and changing environment. Work Experience Python Developer TATA Consultancy Services August 2015 to Present Technical Skills:  • Programming Languages: Python, C, C++, Core JAVA    • Data Base: SQLite, Oracle and MySQL    • web development frameworks: Django    • IDEs: Eclipse and Atom    • Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript    • Application Softwares: MS Office    • Operating Systems: MS-DOS, UNIX, Windows XP/7 Education Marketing & Publishing Recruitment State Government April 2016 to July 2017 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Engineering RVR & JC College of Engineering 2012 Diploma in Computer Science Engineering AANM & VVRSR Polytechnic College 2009