Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - SunTrust Atlanta, GA • 8+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, C, Django, Django Rest Framework in various domains.  • Experienced with Object Oriented Programming, Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding and testing of enterprise applications.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in writing scripts using Gherkin Syntax in Behave framework in Python.  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL .PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked on refactoring the code (Struts, JSP and JavaScript) by restructuring it for better performance.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST and knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA and Bugzilla worked in SQL databases MS SQL, Apache Cassandra, Oracle and MongoDB.  • SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance (Bulk Binds, Materialized views, Inline views, Global Temporary Tables).  • Leveraging queueing architectures with Rabbit MQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Proficient in Unit testing/ Test-driven Development (TDD), Load Testing and Integration Testing.  • Experienced in using SVN, Eclipse, Pycharm, Pyscript, Spyder, JIRA and GIT.  • Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Written Python Code using Ansible Python API to Automate Cloud Deployment Process.  • Good knowledge in strategy and implementation of AWS technologies such as EC2, S3, and EBS.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Good written and communication skills. Poses capability to interact very closely with wide range of audience such as Engineers, Scientists, Health professionals, Scientists, Professors, Clients, and Vendors. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer SunTrust - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to Present Description: SunTrust is an American holding company. It is an organization, driven by purpose and a personal touch. Through its various subsidiaries, the company provides corporate and investment banking, capital market services, mortgage banking, and wealth management. Here the project is to develop user interface of the website and secure data base for handling sensitive information of the clients using python and Django.  Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON to design and develop the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of PyYAML libraries.  • Written Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 3.6/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, Java, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Sherwin Williams - Minneapolis, MN August 2015 to December 2016 Description: The Sherwin-Williams Company is an American Fortune 500 company in the general building materials industry. The company's primary business is manufacture, distribution, and sale of paints, coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial, and retail customers primarily in North and South America and Europe. The company is mostly known through its Sherwin-Williams Paints line. In this project the self-service engine has been built for managing the data of the customers.  Responsibilities:  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web-based application.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Design, develop, and deploy engaging web applications using Python.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and pymongo.  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  • Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs and created User Model for application.  • Developed a complete front-end application with Bootstrap.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  Environments: Python 2.7, Django 1.6 AWS, HTML5, JASON Shell scripting, Tomcat, Apache, CSS, Bootstrap, Flask, Java script, MongoDB, Linux, APIs, Git. Python Developer New York Life - Saddle Brook, NJ September 2013 to July 2015 Description: New York Life's core product is whole life insurance, a type of life insurance offering lifelong protection that builds cash value over time. New York Life also sells term life insurance, universal life insurance, variable universal life insurance, long-term care insurance and annuities. The company operates New York Life Direct, selling direct-to-consumer policies, and is the exclusive life insurance partner of the AARP.  Responsibilities:  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Experience in developing views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Implemented client-side validation to avoid back and forward between server-client and provide better user experience.  • Migrated platform from physical server to virtual environment. Took it from development into production by wiring up a Nginx stack.  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and AngularJs. Equally comfortable working within the Django ORM or writing native SQL in SQL Server.  • Developed Python Script for moving files from dropbox to Amazon server.  • Written Python Scripts for loading data from CSV files into the database tables.  • Documented tasks in Confluence and related them to the JIRA tickets.  • Extensive experience in using Python /Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  • Experience working with version control systems such as Git and Apache SVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  • Created Docker images, upload/download in and out from the Docker Hub.  • Worked on setting up new tools with Docker to assist with auto-scaling, continuous integration, rolling updates with no downtime.  • Developed UI for handling different phases of exceptions for the data in SQL Server database and fix them. Developed web pages for the exception statistics for each phase.  • Excellent experience in designing and maintaining complex SQL queries and developing PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Followed the best practice of Python such as PEP-8.  • Developed Python scripts to execute Stored Procedures and load data from various forms of csv files into staging tables in SQL Server database.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  Environment: Python 2.7, Python, Django 1.6, Django REST Framework, Flask, XML, HTTP, Ajax, Bootstrap, JSON, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Pandas, Bugzilla, GITHUB, Java Script, PL/SQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Shell Scripting, Amazon Web Services (AWS). Python Developer Sears Holdings - Hoffman Estates, IL November 2011 to August 2013 Description: Sears Holdings is a social shopping platform offering members rewards for shopping at Sears and with other retail partners. My role is to provide the user interface to the end user, including the final look, feel and behavior of the interface in different contexts along with building web applications using Django framework for implementing Dependency Injection and utilized features.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Used python packages like cx oracle, pyodbc and MySQL data base for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML, CSS, JSON and Angular JS, Adobe flash. Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Developed application using Amazon Web Service like EC2, cloud search, Elastic load balancer ELB, S#, CloudFront Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Writing SOAP and RESTful web services, in house ESB for a web claims application (Spring MVC, Angular JS, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Build forge)  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Responsible for writing/modifying scripts using sh, ksh, and Bash for day-to-day administration.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, REST, SOAP.  Environment: Python 2.7, Python, Django 1.6, Django REST Framework, Flask, XML, HTTP, Ajax, Bootstrap, JSON, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Node Js, Angular Js Pandas, SOAPUI, Mockito Bugzilla, GITHUB, Java Script, PL/SQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Shell Scripting, Amazon Web Services (AWS). Python Developer Indix - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on requirement gathering and High-level design.  • Used HTML/CSS and JavaScript for UI development.  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python and MSQL.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Used Thales theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Contributed patches back to Django.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Used several Python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.6, SciPy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, JASPER, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, HTML4/CSS, Apache. Python Developer Object Frontier Inc - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2009 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in requirement gathering and analysis period of the project in recording the business requirements by leading workshops/gatherings with different business clients.  • Working cross-functionally to ensure proper functionality and delivery. Developed backend modules using Python on Flask and Django Web Framework.  • Composed python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database. Maintain a solid understanding of MySQL database.  • Implemented Cross Site Scripting, CSRF and SQL injection for security and data protection. Develop scalable applications and to effectively manage technology -tradeoffs and risks.  • Design database structures and develop/tune data access utilizing SQL Server by creating Flask based ORM.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Flask Database API's to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files. Handled RESTful services with the help of python library URLLIBS.  • Closely analyzed the database tables using sequel pro tool of MySQL to resolve integrity issues.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Deployed the entire code using Linux parameters of the virtual machines for UAT phase.  • Collaborate with key stakeholders and project managers to design, develop, integrate, test, document and implement the system. Tracking defects and resolving bugs using JIRA. Ensured quality by versioning with GIT.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Flask, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, HTML4, CSS3, JavaScript, JIRA, GIT. Education Bachelor's in Mechanical Engineering Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills CSS (9 years), HTML (9 years), PYTHON (9 years), SCRIPTING (9 years), SHELL SCRIPTING (9 years), Django, Java, Flask, C, Javascript Additional Information Technical skills:    Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Windows and Mac  Programming Languages Java, C, C++, Python 3.3/2.7/2.4, Perl, Ruby  Scripting Languages CSS, Java Script, JQuery, Shell Scripting  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  Analytics Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL, MVC3  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, numpy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2.  Databases Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, SQL Server and PostgreSQL  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, RESTful web services  Tools Intellij, PyCharm, FileZilla, PL/SQL Developer, and TOAD  Integration Tools Jenkins and Web Builder  Version Control GitHub and SVN  Defect Tracking JIRA, Git, and VersionOne  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum