Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Kinderd Health • Having 7+ Years of Experience as web/application developer software development and design using python, Django, Java, Webapp2, Angular.js, React.js, HTML/CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django, and HTML. Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), strong experience in data engineering, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, Spyder and Visual Studio.  • Strong expertise in development of web-based applications using Python, Flask, Dojo, XML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and jQuery, J2EE.  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  • Created a python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, React JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  • Used Anisole and Anisole Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ python to automate repetitive work.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and Testing.  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Working experience in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Creating python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom Frigate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once).  • Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Have Experience in List Comprehensions and Python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  • Experience in using CI tools Hudson, Build Forge, and Jenkins for automated builds.  • Used Python /Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  • Experience in Kubernetes that provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations. Work Experience Python Developer Kinderd Health - Louisville, KY June 2018 to Present Description: Kindred provide care and support in the most appropriate care setting for those recovering from illness or injury. Whether you're receiving care in our hospital, one of our rehab facilities, or even at home, we're here to ensure you recover to the fullest extent possible.  Responsibilities:  • Interacting with Business team to gather requirements.  • Extensive experience with AWS services like S3, ELB, EBS, Auto-Scaling, Route53, Storefront, IAM, Cloud Watch, RDS etc.  • Extensively involve in infrastructure as code, execution plans, resource graph and change automation using Terraform. Managing AWS infrastructure as code using Terraform.  • Developing Merge jobs in Python to extract and loading data into MySQL database.  • Creating Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implementing Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managing servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Developing file cleaners using Python libraries and make it clean.  • Working on MVC architecture using PHP, Python as controller.  • Building numerous Lambda functions using Python and automating the process using the event created.  • Creating an AWS Lambda architecture to monitor AWS S3 Buckets and triggers a thumbnail create event whenever a user uploads a new picture.  • Working on packages like socket, REST API, Django.  • Hands on experience in migrating Business from a physical data centre environment to AWS.  • Experience in setting up EC2 instances, security groups and Setting up databases in AWS using S3bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Performing S3 buckets creation, policies on IAM role based polices, MFA and customize the JSON template.  • Automating various service and application deployments with ANSIBLE on CentOS and RHEL in AWS.  • Writing ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Working in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deploying the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Learning to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Taking part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Experience in Python advanced packages and modules like Requests, Scrapy, Beautiful Soup, Multithreading, Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, MatPlotlib, wxPython, QT, Regex expressions, SQL Alchemy, SQL based database connectiors JDBC/ODBC and Py-Virtual Environment.  • Understanding of secure-cloud configuration, Cloud Trail, cloud-security technologies (VPC, Security Groups, etc.) and cloud-permission systems (IAM).  • Experience in Installing Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven and Maven Repository and Deployment of apps using custom modules through Puppet as a CI/CD Process.  • Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  • Loading the data into Spark RDD and do in memory data Computation to generate the Output response.  • Configuring and maintaining Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrating the tool with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds.  • Creating Maven POMs to automate build process for the new projects and integrate them with third party tools like Sonar Qube.  • Responsible for installing and administrating the Sonar Qube for code quality check and Nexus repository and generating reports for different projects. Also, integrate them into Jenkins.  • Help to understand the process of Sonar Qube through Presentations and other business value measurement.  • Preparing scripts to ensure proper data access, manipulation and report functions with R programming languages.  • Formulating procedures for integration of R programming plans with data sources and delivery systems.  • Involve in writing queries in Spark SQL using Scala.  • Hands on experience in Apache Spark creating RDD's and Data Frames applying operations like Transformation and Actions and convert RDD's to Data Frames.  • Working with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consume web services performing CRUD operations.  • Using Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Using AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  Environment: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Cloud Environment, Lambda, Dynamo DB, Python 3.6, Django, API Gateway, Java, J2EE, REST API, Spark, Spark API, Spark Sql, Spark Streaming Spring framework, AngularJS, React JS, HTML, Amazon S3, Cloud Watch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. Python Developer Samhita Tech May 2011 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Designed and Developed the REST style web services using Python and Flask, Postgres Database.  • Wrote complex SQL queries and PL/SQL functions.  • Developed the Command Line Interface (CLI) tool for Red hat Linux.  • Used Python's XML parser architectures (SAX) and DOM API for tracking small amounts of data without requiring the DB.  • Created the Linux Services to run REST web services using Shell script.  • Build the RPM Package for the Product with the upgrade features support.  • Design and developed the test cases for REST API, Involved REST API test framework development.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping  • Design and develop the test cases for CLI automation using Python.  • Involved in Unit testing and developed the unit test cases using PyUnit framework.  • Used Jenkins to deploy web services and run unit tests, REST API test. Python Developer Mass Mutual - Springfield, MA February 2017 to May 2018 Description: Haven Life is an insure tech innovator at Mass Mutual that offers a new way to get life insurance online that's actually simple. They combine the culture of a startup with the stability and backing of a Fortune 500 company to create an environment that's truly unique.  Responsibilities:  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to automate many day-to-day tasks.  • Extensive usage of SQL Profiler and Analytics for query optimization and maintenance.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Used web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Implemented in Jenkins for Continuous Integration and for automating all builds and deployments and Build Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing terraform code and Installed and Administered Jenkins CI for Maven Builds.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Mentored large scale data and analytics using advanced statistical and machine learning models.  • Researched and implemented code coverage using Sonar Qube scanner and runner and unit test plug-ins like find bugs, check style and JUnit with Maven/Hudson.  • Deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins.  • Integration of data storage solutions using Django ORM system for MongoDB.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Collaborated with team of QA to build and populate DB and to ensure the standards.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  Environment: Python 3.4,2.7, Django 1.9/1.7, Java 1.7, SQL, Java Script, Linux, Shell Scripting, Mongo DB HTML, Angular JS, React JS, Eclipse jQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Amazon s3, AWS. Python Developer Everest Insurance - Edison, NJ April 2016 to January 2017 Description: Everest is a leading global reinsurance and insurance organization with extensive product and distribution capabilities, a strong balance sheet and an innovative culture.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface  • Provided advanced software research and development for high performance, low-latency platform.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Design and implementation of low-latency, high-availability, and performant applications Implementation of security and data protection.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python to build responsive web page application.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Redesigned existing task management systems using Python.  • Involved in frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved in Installing Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, and AWS and developed multiple MapReduce jobs in Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.  • Efficient database management, optimization and caching.  • Used Python, jQuery, JavaScript and AJAX at the front end.  • Created multipage web application forms and nested forms for user to customize the templates.  • Involved in design, implementation and modifying the Python code.  • Developed Restful API's using Flask.  • Database modeling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Python/Django.  • Used Git for the version control.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Develop user friendly and sophisticated graphical representation of the catalogue of items that would be configured for a piece of equipment.  • Worked on object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, JavaScript, JSON, XML, jQuery, windows, Restful, CSS, Git, JIRA. Python Developer UBS Financial Services - Weehawken, NJ January 2015 to March 2016 Description: UBS is a Swiss global financial services company. It provides investment banking, asset management, and wealth management services for private, corporate, and institutional clients worldwide. This project is mainly developing and re-engineering Loan Application Processing System. Customers can apply for a Loan online by filling out outline forms, which go through security and credit check System checks the loan application against the business rules called RAC (Risk Acceptance Criteria).The loan information is maintained in Oracle 11g database. Bank employees, customers, and customer service representatives can search, filter, and view loan applications.  Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications, which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Involved in develop the REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  • Built an Interface between Django and Salesforce and Django with RESTAPI.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the Application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented admin sites to manage database information with Flask Admin, MySQL and SQLite.  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  Environment: Python 2.7 and 3.0, Django 1.4, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, MYSQL, Cassandra, JIRA. Python Developer Orion Systems Integrators Inc - Woodcliff Lake, NJ October 2013 to December 2014 Description: Founded in 1993, Orion provides innovative IT services and solutions to global industry leaders as well as millennial companies to help them achieve business transformation. With a consultative approach and solutions driven mindset, we reinvent your business processes with new and better ways of working.  Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Analyzed the departmental sales data over the years and developed predictive model to forecast the sales.  • Developed a strong understanding of Balance sheet, Daily Income sheet and performed financial analysis of profit.  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Experience in creating ad hoc reports by using MS Excel and report builder in SSRS 2008.  • Created SSIS packages by using different data transformations like derived column, lookup, confidential split, merge join, sort and execute SQL task to load data into database.  • Reported monthly projected inventory forecasts to managers along with any performance issues.  • Crafted custom reports for management that outlined the company's business process was strong and weak  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and demoralization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Anisole Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Used Flask framework for application development.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Agular's.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  Environment: Python 3.6/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, AWS, API Gateway, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, Cloud Watch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. Additional Information Technical Skills    Java/J2EE  JDK 1.7,1.8-Collections, Generics, Multithreading, Serialization, Exception Handling, RMI, File I/O, JDBC 1.x/2.x/3.x, JNDI 1.1/1.2,Servlets 2.1/2.2/2.5, JSP 1.0/1.1/1.2, JavaBeans, XML Beans, JAXP, Web Services (SOAP)    Framework/Libraries  Struts 1.x/2.x, spring 2.x, EJB 2.x, Hibernate 2.x/3.x, iBatis2.x, MQ, WebLogic Portal 10.3,Apache Axis2.0, JAX-WS,JAX-RS, SOA, Ajax, DOJO 1.3, LOG4J    Middleware  Web Services, RMI Web/Application Servers BEA WebLogic 7.x/8.x/9.x/10x, WebSphere 7.5, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x IDE IBM RAD 7.5, Eclipse2.1-3.5, SOAPUI, XML Spy, Borland Together, JBuilder, XML    Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, MySQL 5. X, MS Access, Mongo DB.  Web Services SOAP, Restful, JAX-RS JAX-WS, WSDL, UDDI, and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  XML/HTML XSD, XML, SAX, DOM, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS  Scripts JavaScript, VB Script    Design Skills  UML (Rational Rose, Visio), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD),  Java Enterprise Design Patterns and Database design (ERWIN)    Version Control Tools GIT, Source Control VSS, SVN, Starteam, Keystone, Subversion1.6.    Methodologies Agile/Scrum Methodology, Waterfall  Deployment and Testing Maven, Ant, Junit, TestNG.    Operating Systems Windows 2003/2008, Windows XP, UNIX, Linux, Windows 7  Tools &Framework Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, Junit, SOAP UI, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Apache Camel, Spring MVC  Web/App Servers Web Sphere, Apache, Tomcat, JBoss, EAP, WebLogic