Python/Django developer <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">developer</span> Python/Django developer - TIU-CMS Los Angeles, CA ? 5+ years of IT experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, Django, SQL, HTML, CSS, Java script, JQuery, JSON and Twitter Bootstrap.  ? Proficiency in Python Scripting.  ? Experience in Python web frame works like Django, Flask and Bottle in implementing MVC architecture.  ? Worked on several python packages like XML, JSON, Numpy, MatPlotLib, Beautiful Soup, Urllib2 and Pandas.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  ? Strong implementation knowledge of Data structures and Algorithms in python.  ? Experience in databases like MySql, MS Sql server and PostgreSQL.  ? Experience in using the tools like RabbitMQ, Celery for Queueing and distributed task processing.  ? Experience in using Docker and AWS for implementing different environments.  ? Strong knowledge of Object-oriented software engineering methodologies including Object oriented programming and Object-oriented design and analysis.  ? Strong experience with working on Multiple-Environments like Development, Testing and Deployment.  ? Well acquainted with the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Involved in manual testing, Automation testing and Integration testing by using Jenkins.  ? Experience in using Version Control like GITHub, SVN.  ? Experience in JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Strong experience in Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  ? Excellent communication, organization and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python/Django developer TIU-CMS June 2017 to Present CA.  Technologies Used: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, Java script, JQuery, Bootstrap, Docker and AWS.    Description:  It's a content management system developed using Django web framework for tone it up mobile application. It is used for uploading videos, selecting and scheduling the workout classes and acts as an interface between the mobile application and data management system.    Responsibilities:  • Development of complete application from analysis of requirements, to implement different modules according to design, test and deployment of the entire application.  • Created Django Forms to record the data from the users, to create and edit the videos, classes and class schedules for the app.  • Generated reports for the data by using Django ORM queries from the MySQL database.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS, Java script, JQuery and Bootstrap  • Designed, developed and retrieved the data from the database tables using Django models and Django ORM queries in MySQL.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for web based services like REST.  • Worked with Docker and AWS to implement different environments.  • Involved in complete testing of the application and deployment.  • Used Git and Jira for code submissions and issue tracking.  • Performing code coverage and pep8 standardization.  • Regular interactions with the customer to get the requirement updates.  • Participated in daily scrum to implement agile scrum methodology. Python developer Fandango, CA November 2016 to May 2017 Technologies Used: Python, Flask, HTML, CSS, Java script, Node JS.    Description:  Fandango is a popular media firm that sells movie tickets via telephone and internet.  Mill is a movie clip generating video pipeline application. It deals with clipping, tagging and publishing video clips from the movies.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis of requirements and implement different functions according to design.  • Developed the back-end web services for the worker using Python and REST APIs.  • Wrote scripts in Python for Extracting Data from JSON and XML files.  • Developed the Mill publisher worker by using Youtube apis.  • Involved in developing different backend services by using Node JS.  • Created and maintained different database tables in Mysql.  • Involved in developing rich user interface by using HTML and JavaScript.  • Involved in Unittesting, Automation testing and Integration testing for the application.  • Involved in writing python scripts for Unittesting, Automation testing and used Jenkins for Integration testing by creating jobs.  • Worked with RabbitMQ as a messaging queue to publish the messages.  • Worked with Docker and AWS to implement different development environments.  • Used Git and Jira for code submissions and issue tracking.  • Performing code coverage and pep8 standardization.  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings and follows agile methodology. Python UI developer Hulu, CA May 2016 to October 2016 Technologies Used: Python, Bottle, HTML, CSS, Coffee script, Java script, Knockout JS.    Description:  Hulu is a well acquainted Subscription Video on Demand based Media firm providing Television series, carrying current and past episodes of series from its owner's respective television networks and other content partners. Flanders is a customer support application serves to build clients and services covering the entire customer life cycle to help with Account details, subscription details, user details, program details, history, content search, credit card change details, recent activity, manage calls and help site services like call us back, chat with us, contact us etc.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed rich user interface using HTML, CSS, Coffee Script and Knockout JS.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used Knockout JS for data binding and widgets like Autocomplete to display the data.  • Wrote scripts in Python for Extracting Data from JSON and XML files.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using Beautiful Soup/Html parser, lxml /etree libraries.  • Designed, added and maintained new database tables for new functions in Mysql database.  • Tested and debugged the product in controlled, real situations.  • Used Git and Jira for code submissions and issue tracking.  • Performing code coverage and pep8 standardization.  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings and follows agile methodology. Python/django developer SVU, CA January 2015 to April 2016 Technologies Used: Python, Django, Apache, Java Script, HTML and MySQL.  Description:  This is an R&D project which involves Professors and Teaching assistants. This project helps Assistants and professors academic project for their PHDs and higher education. We have written a web based application which simplifies the internal process in the Subject Departments.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Architecting, Design, Analysis and Development of different modules in the application.  • Developing different REST APIs using Python, Django.  • Writing Django ORM queries to get the data from DBs (MySQL).  • Developing different modules using Python and Django.  • Helping and training junior team members in Python coding and development.  • Fixing bugs in different modules.  • Performing static analysis using PEP8 and Pylint. Python/django developer Xpert Technologies October 2012 to December 2014 Technologies Used: Python, Django, Apache, Java Script, HTML and MySQL.  Description:  InstaRISPACS, a customizable WEB based RIS/PACS solution, is an archiving database server that stores high quality DICOM images and reports related to Radiology, Cardiology, Nuclear Medicine, Echo-Cardiology, Orthopedics, etc. It is a one-point source of information that is accessed by physicians over a local area network (LAN) and other specialists over the internet. InstaRISPACS is designed for single hospitals or medical centers.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis of requirements and implement different functions model according to design.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python, Django and REST APIs.  • Analyzes and improves application efficiency by optimizing queries and contents for Django.  • Associated with development of Web Services using RESTful API's.  • Designed, added and maintained new database tables for new functions.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Conducted data analysis using Python libraries such as Pandas, Numpy and Matplotlib.  • Built multifunction readmission reports using python pandas and Django frame work.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Performing code coverage and pep8 standardization.  • Fixing the issues regarding different applications like User Accounts, dashboards and alert configuration etc.  • Used Git and Jira for code submissions and review process Python Developer InstaRAD(Tele Radiology) September 2011 to September 2012 Description:  InstaRAD is a customizable and scalable radiology imaging solution designed for single hospitals and diagnostic centers. Within seconds, radiologists and referring physicians access high quality, diagnostically useful, compressed and decompressed radiographic images  The specialist analyzes the radiographic image and sends back the diagnosis/report within minute.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the different modules.  • Involved in unit testing after the developing the code  • Involved in writing test cases using Selenium Web Driver and TestNG  • Interacted with development team whenever required  • Involved in analysis of SSRS documentation.  Environment: Python, Django, Apache, Java Script, HTML and MySQL Skills Apache (4 years), Django (4 years), HTML (6 years), MySQL (6 years), Python (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Platforms UNIX, Linux/Unix, Windows, Ubuntu and MAC OSX  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript.  Database MySQL, MS SQL server, Postgresql.  Language Python.  Web Servers Apache, Django's Internal Server, AWS.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Bottle, RabbitMQ.  Tools & Utilities GITHub, SVN, Phabricator, Bugzilla, JIRA, PyCharm, intelliJ, Sublime, pdb, Jenkins and Docker.