Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Wells Fargo Charlotte, NC • Around 6 years of experience in Application Development coding in Python, Django, and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experienced with full software development life cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Experience in Cassandra Database Configurations and its C++ client libQt Cassandra.  • Advised organizations about big data, a big data strategy, the implementation of big data, which technologies best fit the needs of the organization and even implements the selected big data solution.  • Experience in Python Open Stack API'S  • Write MATLAB code to create discretized computer models of sloped levy geometries.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing, and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Strong knowledge on Dev Express Controls.  • Strong database design and programming skills in SQL Server 2012/2008/2005, SQL Stored, Procedures, functions, triggers, Cursors, Indexing, importing/exporting data from varied data sources  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experience in developing ColdFusion Components, custom tags, and modified CF Objects.  • Can understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Work Experience Python Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC June 2018 to Present LOB::CMoR(Corporate Model Risk); Corporate Risk helps all Wells Fargo businesses identify and manage risk. We focus on three key risk areas: credit risk, operational risk and market risk. We help our management and Board of Directors identify and monitor risks that may affect multiple lines of business and take appropriate action when business activities exceed the risk tolerance of the company.    Achievement highlights:  • Involved in creating a platform for Validators where they could run scripts from R, Python and Java.  • Enhanced application named VIPER UI using angular js and html  • Worked on SAS connections from Python using saspy module and ran SAS code  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework. Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Created a backend server with Python Flask that implemented routing for indexing & showing page, and receiving the video & info data sent from the user  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller, which Isolate scopes perform operations.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Implemented Matplotlib for model validation purpose.  Environment: - Python, MySQL, Hadoop, SAS, R, Hive, JSON, RESTful, Angular JS, Pandas, Numpy, Machine Learning Models, Scikit-learn. Python Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC December 2016 to June 2018 Bank of America is one of the world's leading financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses, large corporations and governments with a full range of financial and risk management products and services.  Project: Quartz is Bank of America's primary risk and trading platform. I am in the team developing and maintaining the QzPeople library in the Quartz Core group. The goal is to provide a fast lookup of user information without DOS the corporate LDAP infrastructure by utilizing a distributed object-oriented database.  Achievement highlights:  • Detail-oriented software engineer with hands-on experience in developing, testing and maintaining large-scale applications using both industry standard and proprietary technologies.  • Proven success in applying various algorithms and data structures to model and tackle real-world problems.  • Rigorous training in various areas of computer science, especially in real-time and distributed systems.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework, invoke database message service setup, and update functionality.  • Worked on different data formats such as JSON, XML and performed Machine Learning algorithms in Python.  • Analysed and improved application efficiency by optimizing queries and caching contents for Django.  • Created database schema for MySQL Database and helped to draw ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Analyse the report requests made by business users to the real-time regulatory reporting support team and identified the frequently requested.  • Developed a self-serve reporting tool using Python which enabled users to generate the reports themselves, thereby reducing the manual report generation requests to the support team.  • Applying computations on huge amounts of data according to the business requirements.  • Implemented Pandas for reading large csv files.  • Used python to do the ETL tasks, after cleaning the data stored in log files, loaded data into Hive data warehousing.  • Developed Informatica Mappings/Mapplets/Worklets and workflows for loading the data to SQL Server from various SORs.  • Designed various UDF's (User Defined Functions) in Informatica designer to be used in various mappings.    Environment: - Python(Quartz), MySQL,Hive, JSON, RESTful, Pandas, Machine Learning, Version One, Linux, Shell Scripting, IBM Netezza, JavaScript, AngularJS, Toad Data Point(SQL), Putty(Linux), Informatica. Python Developer JP Morgan Chase - Whippany, NJ June 2016 to December 2016 ADInvestorServices is a JPMC strategic project totally build on python and mainly this application is a reporting tool) is developed to replace the already existing project which is written in Java. Project includes work streams created for the multi-year program called IRIS (Independent Revaluation Infrastructure) in support of the VCG (Valuation Control Group) business. This project presents offers and content most relevant to the customers. The project simultaneously aims to deliver the greatest benefit to the enterprise as it allows American Express to tailor its services and products to meet customer preferences efficiently and make interactions faster and easier.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in a multi-national development group supporting trading in 13 locations with capacity increased from handling 500s trades a day to 300,000s trades a day  • Analysed the system requirement specifications and in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Utilized full software development life-cycle, from design to production in implementation of the JPMorgan FX Auto-Pricing system and other systems  • Enhanced both the client and server side of the applications  • Worked independently with users to design and enhance business functions that improved user productivity.  • Assisted in migrating data from Object database to Oracle database  • Worked with vendor tech teams to designed and implemented processes interfacing with their systems e.g. Reuters LBN API and Logic scope  • Worked effectively with Level one and Level two support teams on daily support and support under extreme market condition.  • Worked with Level two support team, DBAs and infrastructure team to improve the efficiency and capacity of our system.  • Involved in the preparation of documentation for ETL standards, procedures and naming conventions.  • Used angular material for frontend development.  • Implemented and enhanced real time FX Order Management system using Java, spring and worked on projects on Athena (JPMC in house Python platform).  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML and Web Services.  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using Oracle PL/SQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.    Environment: Python 2.7, Bottle and Flask, Angular Material, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, Informatica, RESTful, HTML5, MS SQL Server Python Developer Alert Enterprises - Jersey City, NJ June 2015 to May 2016 Alert Enterprise, based in Silicon Valley, uniquely delivers Information Technology and Operational Technology (IT-OT) Convergence for Corporate and Critical Infrastructure protection. See more at: http://www.alertenterprise.com/company-overview.php#sthash.bhZk2vLM.dpuf  Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Responsible for Working on Celery.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Responsible for using Tableau efficiently.  • Collaborated on architecture, design including Python and Java automation framework  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Shared responsibility for administration of Hive and Pig.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO).  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation of the application.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 3.3, Django 1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, Java, MySQL, JavaScript,Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer EXAMITY - Natick, MA January 2015 to May 2015 Examity offers live online proctoring for academic institutions & universities by using a webcam to monitor students taking exams online to prevent cheating.  Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with Rabbit MQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and Soap UI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting - web and web services.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also, researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, Dev Centre, Data stax Ops center.  • Designing and developing new enhancements using core Java, Python.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, iter tools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Trained extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum stand ups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with clients.    Environment: Python, Django, Cassandra, RabbitMQ, Java, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, Agile. Python Developer FM Global (Remote) January 2014 to November 2014 This is a mutual insurance company, with offices worldwide, that specializes in loss prevention services primarily to large corporations throughout the world in the Highly-Protected Risk (HPR) property insurance market sector.  Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used LINUX as trouble shooter for systems.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, PHP, AJAX, Cassandra, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, Git, GitHub. Internship Bharath Petroleum Corporate - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2012 to September 2013 INDIA  Software Engineer  Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using python.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Wilmington University - Wilmington, DE May 2016 Skills DJANGO (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), XML (5 years), MYSQL (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  OS Platforms Linux/Unix, Windows-98/NT, MAC OSX  Languages Python 2.7/2.4, R, Java, Shell Script  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, PostgreSQL  Web Technologies AJAX, AWS EC Cloud, Amazon S3 JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Git, SVN  Web servers Apache  Framework Django, Flask, Bottle  Other Tools Putty, Informatica, SQL developer, Photoshop, JIRA, Open stack