Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - NuStar Energy San Antonio, TX • 8+years of experience in Web/Application Development as a senior Python Developer in analytical programming using python with skills in analysis, design, development, testing and deploying software applications.  • Good experience using various python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL, NOSQL, dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries)  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using python Flask framework.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Developed entire frontend and back-end modules using python on Django Web Framework with GIT  • Successfully Migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Working in UNIX environment in developing the application and familiar with all of its commands.  • Experienced in working Stretch Database feature of SQL Server 2016 for the cold data residing on on-premises SQL Server Databases can be migrated transparently and securely to Microsoft AzureCloud.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool).  • Proficient in using Amazon Web Services AWS. Extensive experience focusing on services like EC2, VPC, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, Amazon RDS, Elastic Cache, SNS, SQS.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Hands on experience in design and development of Unix Shell Scripting as a part of the ETL Process to automate the process of loading.  • Automate different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  • Experience in Creation and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in Solaris and Red hat Linux.  • Proficient in using Amazon Web Services AWS. Extensive experience focusing on services like EC2, VPC, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, Amazon RDS, Elastic Cache, SNS, SQS.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP  • Developed Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML, Android, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications including using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI  • Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP1.1, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer NuStar Energy - San Antonio, TX May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many bug fixes for applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Handled potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors) through error handling and communication of failure.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Worked on Restful API's to access the third-party data for the internal analysis and statistical representation of data.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Worked in NoSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki and backup the database.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, andJavaScript.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Involved in Data base design, normalizations and de-normalization techniques.  • Involved in User Acceptance Testing and prepared UAT Test Scripts.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python and portlet.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Cantor Fitzgerald - New York, NY July 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating company's internal platform called DCAE by using python to develop and test the components.  • Worked with various Python libraries such as Six, Click, Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data  • Used Click package to create the command line interface.  • Used Jinja2 of Flask to develop the backend and SQL Alchemy to link to the mysql database.  • Developing backend modules using Python on Flask Web Framework.  • Used Consul for Service Discovery and to create Key-Value pair.  • Build SQL, NOSQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON files and load the data into the Consul  • Making use of JSP, HTML, and XML for the designing the GUI framework and presentation stratum. Confirming the validations of the customers with the help of JavaScript  • Worked on MPP data warehousing (e.g. Redshift) Cloud ETL tools (e.g. AWS data pipeline).  • Used Python IDE Pycharm for developing the code and performing unit test  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  • very good understanding of Microsoft Azure cloud platform. Experience with managing cloud delivery platforms, Azure/AWS  • Used Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing  • Worked on design and development of Unix Shell Scripting as a part of the ETL Process to automate the process of loading.  • Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2  instances.  • AmazonEC2is also used for deploying and testing the lower environments such as Dev, INT  and Test  • Used Spring Cloud AWS Core, Spring Cloud AWS Context, and Spring Cloud AWS Messaging.  • Involved in development using Python, bug fixing  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Part of the SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) team enforcing best practices for services ( REST and SOAP).  • Wrote several PL/SQL procedures and SQL queries to retrieve data from database.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python.  • Developed Python based APIs by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, intellij IDEA  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python  • Created data access modules in python  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.9, Flask, NOSQL,Unix,AWS, MongoDb, SQLAlchemy, AWS, Consul, HTML, JSP, AJAX, PL/SQL, MYSQL, Agile, Linux, GIT. Python Developer HMS Holdings Corp New York City - New York, NY August 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, Node.JS  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used JQuery for all client side JavaScript manipulation.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Used Spring Cloud AWS Core, Spring Cloud AWS Context, and Spring Cloud AWS Messaging.  • Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2  instances.  • AmazonEC2is also used for deploying and testing the lower environments such as Dev, INT  and Test.  • Web-services backend development using Python (Django, SQLAlchemy)  • Dealt with development of parsers for handling JSON, XML responses and JAXB binding and worked with JMS (java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format  • Performed coding in C on Linux Platform  • Build SQL, NOSQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server  • Experience with working on Linux server and Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development  • Python/Bash Scripting for automation and monitoring system processes  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django,AWS, C, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, JSP, PL/SQL, NOSQL, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, SQLAlchemy, Apache Web Server. Python Developer Satellite Healthcare - San Jose, CA October 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development  • Running Robot Framework on Python using the ipybot runner script  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications  • Used Graphical User Interface Testing and API driven Testing  • Making use of JSP, HTML, and XML for the designing the GUI framework and presentation stratum. Confirming the validations of the customers with the help of JavaScript  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib  • Using features that support complex data structures, first class functions by using PERL  • Implementing Robot Framework using python  • Developed backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call centre application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.    Environment: MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.8, HTML5, JSP, Perl5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, urllib , urllib2, Json, CherryPy, Unix, Redis, Bootstrap ,Mongodb, SQLAlchemy, Jquery. Java, Python Developer Optum Inc - West Valley City, UT June 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and implemented several drag and drop functionalities for various elements using Swing, Java AWT.  • Wrote several PL/SQL procedures and SQL queries to retrieve data from database.  • Designed and developed several complex SQL queries. Used explain plan for slow running queries and made necessary changes to code to expedite the query execution.  • Experience with Core java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts(OOPS) like Collections, Multi-threading, Exception Handling, Reflection  • Established JDBC connections for data retrieval and update.  • Involved in making GUI (JSP, HTML, and JS) and java classes using Struts Framework.  • Used Struts framework to implement J2EE design pattern (MVC)  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector and MySQL package  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Involved in writing complex SQL queries to filter the data and fetch data to Tableau desktop in order to generate reports  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout    Environment: Python, Java/J2EE, Perl5, PyUnit, Node.js, XML, MS Visio, MS Project, JIRA, Apache, Git, UML, SQL, Tableau, PL/SQL, Windows and Linux, Agile. Java, Python Developer IBM - New York, NY February 2010 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Requirement study, design, develops, and test  • software using the latest technologies.  • Think ahead: Lay out the future vision,  • ability to anticipate what's coming next, and plan towards it.  • Manage the day to day execution, work assignment, tracking.  • Working within an Agile team to develop,  • test, and maintain applications.  • Willing to give and receive honest feedback Education Bachelor's