Python Database Programmer <span class="hl">Python</span> Database Programmer Python Database Programmer - First Republic Bank • Over 7 years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python 3.4 /2.7, Django 1.9/1.7, REST API, AWS, C, C++ and SQL.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Django and PHP.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in UI development using HTML5/CSS3, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Strong Database experience in Oracle , MYSQL and MongoDB.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Worked on Data analysis, Data extraction and Loading using Python, Oracle and NOSQL databases  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on Devops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture.  • Develop ETL packages using SQL*Loader SSIS to insert datasets to Oracle/SQL  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test driven development methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Database Programmer First Republic Bank - San Francisco, CA June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting and MySQL Workbench for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages  • Successfully migrated the Django database from MySQL Workbench to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Designed and developed ETL processes that were used to integrate data between various sources using Informatica  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing Oracle SQL developer clusters.  • Created Automated Test Scripts in Python for Reports and Data extraction jobs.  • Developed scripts in python for Financial Data coming from SQL Developer based on the requirements specified.  • Refactored existing batch jobs and migrated existing legacy extracts from Informatica to Python based micro services and deployed in AWS with minimal downtime.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's, used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Involved in Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Oracle database with Python.  • Worked with python Unit test library which was used for testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Checked error & tested the ETL procedures & programs using Informatica session log.  • Involved in the complete software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the web application.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Coding application using Python, Django in End-to-End Web application development using MVC architecture while front-end is built on CSS3 and HTML5.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PyUnit.  • Created Database Schema for MySQL Database and involved in designing ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens and the user entry validations. Python Developer DoorDash - San Francisco, CA November 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and also involved client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Responsible for OpenStack project core infrastructure including code review, continuous integration systems, and developer tools.  • Used configuration management tools like Chef and puppet.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations, data conversion scripts REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Good knowledge on Python Collections and Multi-Threading  • Worked in the DevOps team, delivered new agile environments & build/release/configuration and deployment automation/monitoring using Jenkins, ant, maven, artifactory, chef, custom scripting and Jira for ticketing.  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Worked on Openstack Swift for moving large data files using Keystone and Horizon and integrated them into the web services and client server application  • Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure  • Reviewed and implemented instrument pricing and modelling methodologies in collaboration with technical engineers. Analyzed and documented how instrument prices move as underlying market data sources change.  • Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing and created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Strong understanding and knowledge of Linux, automation and CI Tools like Chef, Hudson, Jenkins & Git with scripting languages (Shell, python, pearl and ruby)  • Responsible for OpenStack project core infrastructure including code review, continuous integration systems, and developer tools  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content. Python Developer Verizon - Walnut Creek, CA October 2012 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of web pages for front end applications.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Worked on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for responsive web pages.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration services.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, Wire-Framing and HTML5  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using machine library like Numpy and SQL Alchemy for Insurance premium.  • Used Airflow for Data warehousing, Growth analytics, Email targeting, Sessionization, Data infrastructure maintenance.  • Developed python code for different tasks, dependencies, SLA watcher and time sensor for each job for workflow management and automation using Airflow tool.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • The Batch process was developed using Java and SQL Stored Procedures.  • Utilize continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET MVC 4 Framework (C#.NET, Hibernate).  • Delivered automated solutions for science models and maintained & updated existing automated solutions.  • Maintaining SQL server database and updating PHP Script.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  • Played a key role in the planning, testing, and implementing system enhancements and conversions. Worked closely with project manager in handling the whole project.  • Developed the project in Linux environment and involved in support for teams for projects across Python Developer TCS - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with management and developers in a daily scrum to discuss test cases and schedules  • Used Bootstrap and Angular UI Bootstrap for creating rich, Responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes and devices.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, Perl, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Web application development using Python 3.5, Django 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Developed and tested many features in an AGILE environment using Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Worked on different Rest API's and involved in handling the JSON responses of those API's  • Experience involving designing, development, testing, implementation and support of applications using Perl.  • Hands-on experience on SCM tools like GIT, containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins, CHEF.  • Responsible for writing code in Object Oriented Programming supported by Ruby on Rails in Agile SCRUM environment.  • Written with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, git.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, RectJs, CSS3 and Java Scripts, AngularJS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Ruby on Rails, Bootstrap, CSS JavaScript, and Rspec.  • Experience in DevOps processes for build and deploy systems. Created and built out QA Automated Test frameworks.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL and MongoDb database.  • Successfully migrated Django database from SQLite to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity. Skills DATABASE (8 years), DJANGO (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), PYTHON (8 years), AJAX (7 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/lavanya-kandanoor-96057315a Additional Information Technical Proficiency:    Languages: Python 2.7/2.4, C++, C, PHP, Shell Script, Perl, SQL    Framework: Django 1.3/1.4    Database: Oracle 11/10g, PL/SQL, MySQL, SQL Server 2008,MongoDB, Cassandra, PostgreSQL, Amazon AWS cloud, Amazon Cloud EC2    Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS, Javascript, pyQT,pY2EXE, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML    Versioning Tools: Git, Mercurial, Perforce, SVN, CVS    Appl/Web servers: Apache, IIS    Operating systems: Linux/Unix, MAC OS,FreeBSD,XINU