SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER SR. <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER - CYBYTE INC • Around 6+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django. Experience in python libraries like beautiful soup, JASY, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pickle, PYSIDE, Panda data frame, network, PYCHART, High carts, Urliib2.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Knowledge on continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins. Good experience in working on AWS S3 with Amazon EC2.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Python, Corn and Shell scripting. Experience on LAMP & WAMP. (Windows, Apache, MySQL and PHP) architecture.  • Familiar with XML/JSON based SOAP and REST web services and used the debugging the issues using debuggers like gdb, pdb. Experience in HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Experience in consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies. Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Experience in python modules regular expression, collections, dates and time, unit testing, Load testing. Hands on experience in using NOSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  • Hands on experience with various application servers and web servers including Apache Tomcat, Apache http servers, Web logic and WebSphere.  • Experience in working with different databases using Oracle, MySQL. Having Knowledge on Vertica, a columnar Relational Database Management System used for Data Warehousing and Big Data Analytics.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with the DDL and DML queries.  • Experience in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python. Experience in developing applications using Java API, Swing, HTML3/4/5, Flex, JavaScript, CSS2/3, jQuery, JDBC, JSF, JMS, XML  • Experience in J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing with unit test and integration testing with PyVows.  • Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and SVN. Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Experience in developing applications using agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD. Worked on various operating systems Windows XP/7/8/10, UNIX and Linux.  • Experienced in Linux shell commands and command line utilities. Worked in the team and faced challenges during the project development and production process. Networking knowledge (OSI Layers, Network Topologies, TCP/IP, etc.) and Excellent communication and time management skills. Work Experience SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER CYBYTE INC - Wexford, PA January 2018 to Present • Worked on several python packages like NumPy, matplotlib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, Pisidia, SciPy, WX Python, PyTables etc.  • Used various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, SciPy, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries)  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, NetBeans, Spyder and Intellij. Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries NUMPY.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Utilized Python libraries python, NumPy, Twisted and mat Potlid. Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database. Designed and evaluated business using historical & current data from Google Analytics.  • Wrote object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Managed data in Omniture for data collection and analysis and worked on the library like pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Docker.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Used Robot Test automation framework for Testing of the GUI of the application. Skilled in collections and used for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface. Developed RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Created MongoDB replica sets, Clusters for growing highly scalable datasets in combining sharding databases. Design and Setting up of environment of MongoDB with shards and replica sets  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters. Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS. Accessed database objects using Django Database APIs. Utilized Python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib for generating graphical reports.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot. Utilized Futures and Spring Framework to make Asynchronous calls to the application.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, MongoDB, and VMWare API calls. Developed the tools using Python, Django and used MongoDB for databases.  • Created restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robot parser, itertools and pickle for development. Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Git version control and deployed project to Heroku. Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python. Used Ajax and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers. Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Implemented and executed code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using PYmongo module. Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in MongoDB.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Implementing Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, and MySQL dB for database connectivity.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns. Created UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, and jQuery.  • Implemented business logic using Python Web frame work Django. Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frame works.  • Designed mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python. Worked on CSS Bootstrap to develop web applications.  • Analyzed and Designed application with the use of Docker. Implemented Model View Control architecture in developing web applications using Django frame work.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports. ETL process for continuously bulk importing catalog data into Elastic search.  • Implemented python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL db for database connectivity, python-twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • Worked with databases records on daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio. Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Worked with AWS is the interesting part of it putty is used launching the Instance, hands on Azure. Deployed automation and related tooling (Terraform, AWS Cloud Formation or similar) . Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python pandas' libraries. Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library. Used Python library NumPy Beautiful Soup for web-scraping. PYTHON DEVELOPER VERANTIS TECH - Santa Clara, CA September 2016 to December 2017 • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL. Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Implemented the Machine learning libraries like NumPy, Pandas, SciPy and Matplotlib for the evaluation of some algorithms and Data Visualization.  • Actively participated in requirement gathering sessions and capability planning for multi data center Cassandra cluster. Installed, Configured, administered and monitored multi Data center Cassandra clusters.  • Involved in upgrading the present Oracle data model to Cassandra data model.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library. Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web-scraping. Experience with Requests, NumPy, Scipy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.]  • Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Worked on Spring Security both client and Server Side. Worked on application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Used Python included Boto3 to supplement automation provided by Ansible and Terraform for tasks such as encrypting EBS volumes backing AMIs and scheduling Lambda functions for routine AWS tasks.  • Worked on deploying apps using AWS Cloud Formation. Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system. Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Framework using Git. All the codes are stored in local Git repository and once it is validated then it is committed onto GitHub.  • Developed applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with its commands. Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Used the Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms.  • Worked on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) and Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring framework using DJANGO. Worked on deployment, data security and troubleshooting of the applications using AWS services  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main application Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library. Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Developed front end page using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery. Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Development of XMLs for several components which maintains data for several registers. Used multithreading and multiprocessing to serve multiple client requests.  • Designed and developed SQL procedures and Linux shell scripts for data import/export and data conversions. Utilized various IDEs and internal debug tools during debugging.  • Analyzed the data in design database. Used SVN for version control. Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and created UML diagrams such as Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts for the Optimization module using Microsoft Visio.  • Used GOLANG to log the different host system event and alert information to Cassandra database. Developed web components using JSP, Servlets, and JDBC. Implemented database using MySQL. Implemented J2EE standards, MVC2 architecture using Spring Framework.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes. Created Spring Batches for running batch jobs and documented the use of Spring Batch.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS, and HTML as data and presentation layer technology.  • Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for database.  • Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries. Defined different Django API profiling techniques for faster rendering information.  • Used Ansible, Vagrant and Docker for managing the application environments. Worked on Django Signals, and Celery. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Developed Python scripts for testing and functioning of different services. Worked with Splunk for testing the performance and debugging server level problems.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript. Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with React States and Events.  • Developed Restful microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2. PYTHON DEVELOPER ADOBE INC August 2014 to June 2015 • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations, data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Automation of unit testing using Python. Used Unix/Linux OS based cloud for the deployment. Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file using Python library Beautiful Soup. Worked with Data migration from Sqlite3 to MongoDB.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and AngularJS while integrating with infrastructure services. Developed python scripts to migrate information from Oracle to MongoDB.  • Migrated out core repository from SUBVERSION to GIT. Managed GitHub Projects and migrated from SVN to GitHub with history.  • Used GIT as Source control repositories with regular code reviews and pull/merge requests. Prototyped an augmented reality solution in the form of a video using Premiere Pro, Pylatte and Python, Git Adobe After Effects  • Participated in scalability testing to ensure MongoDB High Performance. Configured MONGODB Shaded cluster with Replica Set (HA) on Different AWS regions.  • Used AWS Cloud Watch to monitor and store logging information. Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using amazon elastic bean stalk.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented the Spring MVC architecture. Worked on Restful API development using Jersey API. Worked on different J2EE Design Patterns such as Factory Pattern and Singleton. Created User Interface screens using HTML, AJAX, CSS, Java script.  • Developed Action classes, Action Forms, and Struts Configuration file to handle required UI actions, JSPs for Views.  • Developed build scripts to generate EAR and WAR files Tomcat Server. Developed server-side presentation layer using Spring MVC Framework using Maven.  • Used the light weight container of the Spring Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC)  • Performed Inheritance based Object Relational Mappings in tables to simplify the data using Hibernate ORM. Used Java Scripts for data validations and designed validations modules.  • Developed project's web page as Single Page Application (SPA) by using AngularJS and JavaScript API and build delivery driver application.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface. Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for local timestamp data manipulation and retrieval and storing it into MongoDB.  • Deployed and tested different modules in Docker containers and GIT. Used multiple containers and managed the load balancing between all the containers using NGINX.  • Implemented programming automations using Jenkins and Ansible on Unix/Linux based OS over cloud like Docker. PYTHON SOFTWARE ENGINEER CINCOM SYSTEMS - Cincinnati, OH January 2013 to July 2014 • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging. Wrote programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database. Developed front end page using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python. Collected the several usage models and functions from the team members.  • Developing and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user. Development of XMLs for several components which maintains data for several registers.  • Used multithreading and multiprocessing to serve multiple client requests. Designed and developed SQL procedures and Linux shell scripts for data import/export and data conversions.  • Utilized various IDEs and internal debug tools during debugging. Analyzed the data in design database. Used SVN for version control. Maintained the data with different levels of access privileges. Coordinated with the design team members to provide the data in required format. Education Master's Skills CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), LINUX (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), django (3 years), beautifull (3 years) Additional Information Skills:  Cloud: AWS, Open stack, Google Cloud, Azure  Databases: PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MS Access, SQL Server,  NoSQL Databases: Mongo DB, Redis, Cassandra    Operating Systems: Linux, Windows, IOS, MAC OSX.  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SMTP  Languages: Python, C, C++, Shell Script, Java, AWS, PHP, PL/SQL, DevOps  Version Controls: GIT, GitHub, SVN, CVS,  Web Technologies: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, J Query, AngularJS, Ext JS, Node JS, React JS, JSON and bootstrap.  Frameworks: Django, Flask, Pyramid  Web Services: Soap, Apache Axis, Restful  Bigdata Technologies: Hadoop, Hive, Pig, Spark  Libraries: beautiful soup, JASY, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pickle, PYSIDE, Panda data frame, network, PYCHART, High carts, Urliib2.