Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Chicago Tribune Chicago, IL • Around 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, C/C++, Java.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in frameworks like Flask, Django and Python packages like PySide, PyQtGraph, NumPy, MatPlot Lib.  • Expert knowledge in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL.  • Familiar with C++11 and C++ 14 concepts.  • Familiar with concepts and devices such routers, switches and TCP/IP protocols and OSI layer.  • Hands-on experience on SCM tools like GIT.  • Strong debugging skills, develop design docs, unit and system test plans  • Strong written and verbal communication skills.  • Use of open source libraries such as Spring, Hibernate, and Apache projects are a plus.  • Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins.  • Experience using different kinds of databases like SQL, SQLite3, PostgreSQL.  • Well versed with AWS and google cloud.  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Project management tools JIRA, Redmine and Bugzilla.  • Experienced in Requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Experience in python packages such as NumPy, matPlotlib, Pandas, SciPy, Pickling, JSON.  • Experience in Python test-driven development techniques.  • Well versed with Agile and Test driven development methodologies.  • Development Experience in Linux (CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu), Mac OS.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude.  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments, fast learner and organized self-starter.  • Experience in writing reusable and in test driven development using Unit Testing and Selenium.  • Authorized to work in the US for any employer. Work Experience Python Developer Chicago Tribune July 2015 to Present Description: The Chicago Tribune is a daily newspaper based in Chicago, Illinois, United States, owned by tronc, Inc., formerly Tribune Publishing. Founded in 1847, and formerly self-styled as the "World's Greatest Newspaper" (for which WGN radio and television are named), it remains the most-read daily newspaper of the Chicago metropolitan area and the Great Lakes region  Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's and used NoSQL as database and followed Python test-driven development techniques.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users and used Flask, Django frameworks for creation of web pages.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation, used DCL(SQL) and OpenVMS.  • I have used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile) and used GIT version control.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Python, MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, Selenium. Python Developer Volkswagen Credit - Chicago, IL January 2014 to June 2015 Description: Volkswagen Credit have been providing quality financial products and expert customer support to the Volkswagen family for over thirty years. That means they care about what we finance and, more importantly, who we serve.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared low level detail design document from Functional spec document.  • Developed different shell scripts for running Sql scripts or for initial validations.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Processed around 88 million of data on oracle db using multi job processing.  • Extensively used oracle string / CLOB functions in the project.  • Used dynamic Sql, cursor concepts in the development of project.  • Used different concepts of data structures for different searching and sorting methods.  • Debugged the code using GDB debugger.  • Followed Scrum/Agile methodology.  • Debugging and Troubleshooting production issues.    Environment: Python, C++, RHEL Linux, Pro C, Oracle 11g, Pl/Sql, Oracle Sql, and Shell Scripting Python Developer Memorial Health Systems February 2013 to January 2014 Description: One of the leading healthcare organizations in Illinois, Memorial Health System of Springfield is a community-based, not-for-profit corporation dedicated to patient care, education and research.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects/ POJO to hold values between java classes and database fields.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Worked on scripts for setting up the discovery client with attribute data. Worked on scripts (granite reference data scripts) for setting up adapter attributes in granite system.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Linux, Shell Scripting, JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Programmer Rollins INC - Atlanta, GA November 2011 to January 2013 Description: Rollins, Inc. is a premier global consumer and commercial services company. Through its wholly owned subsidiaries, Orkin LLC., Orkin Canada, Western Pest Services and many more.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Responsible for entire data migration from Sybase ASE server to Oracle  • Migration of API code written for Sybase to Oracle.  • Overlook the migration activity of PL/SQL programs  • Migration of the PL/SQL code from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's  • Automation of testing using Python.    Environment: Python 2.7, Shell scripting, PL/SQL, SVN, Quality Center, Solaris, Windows, perl. Software Engineer IT Labs India Pvt Ltd February 2008 to October 2011 Description: It provide IT services and consultancy to esteemed clients from numerous horizons of business and industries. Expert IT consultants, software engineers and application developers leverage modern technologies for innovating unique and user-friendly IT solutions  Responsibilities:  • Assisted in writing reusable, testable, and efficient code.  • Performed trial runs; modifying code.  • Planned program by studying specifications.  • Prepared program reference by documenting control language.  • Advanced job knowledge to next level by participating in educational opportunities.  • Assisted in writing code in Python, Java.  • Provided test cases for unit as well as integrated testing.    Environment: Python 2.7, SQL, Windows XP, Vista. Education Bachelors of Technology in Computer Science GITAM University Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY:    OS Platforms: Linux/Unix, Windows-98/NT, MAC OSX  Languages: Python 2.7/3.4, Java, Shell Script, Perl, Scala  Databases: MySQL, SQL Server 2008, PostgreSQL  Web Technologies: AJAX, AWS EC Cloud, Amazon S3 JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Git, SVN  Web servers: Apache, Nginix , Tomcat, JBoss  Framework: Django, Flask  Editors: PyCharm, Sublime 3, Notepad++