Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Intergroup(Business to Customer) Madison, WI ? Having 8+ years of diverse professional experience in planning, designing, developing, Architecting and implementation in the area of Amazon Web Services Cloud, Python and IT industry.  ? Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Django, Flask, Dojo, HTML, XML, Angular.JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  ? Worked on several python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  ? Sound knowledge in spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  ? Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  ? Working with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  ? Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) and experience in Agile Software Methodology.  ? Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server side application Django.  ? I understand and experienced with the following; Plone, Pyramid, Django, Angular PostgreSQL, ZODB, Key Value Stores, Couchdb, Couchbase, Linux, Nginx, Varnish, ReactJS and Odoo.  ? Good knowledge about frameworks such as Bootstrap and Foundation.  ? Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  ? Admirable problem solving and decision-making capabilities which are renowned by associates for quality of work and unconventional solutions.  ? Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  ? Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new Knowledge.  ? Expert in maintaining technical documentation for projects.  ? Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell scripting.  ? Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  ? Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  ? Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT)  ? Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  ? Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  ? Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Intergroup(Business to Customer) - Madison, WI August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Build, validate, implement and monitor performance of predictive data models.  ? Preparing the required datasets for training the models.  ? Developed forecasting models to predict GAP(car insurance) product revenues to help estimate accuratley a product's potential.  ? Developed customer segmentation algorithm in Python which scored sales leads for Mortgage rotection Plan programs and lead to increased market share.  ? Implemented demand forecasting models which improved upon forecast accuracy and reduced sales inefficiencies.  ? Work with Data Scientists and Product Managers to frame a problem, both mathematically and within the business context.  ? Developed customer segmentation algorithm in Python which scored increase in Imasis cases and and lead to increased customer enrollment.  ? Leveraging machine learning algorithms to solve business problems.  ? Importing, cleaning, transforming, validating or modeling data with the purpose of understanding or making conclusions from the data for decision making purposes using data mining tools and techniques.  ? Work with Product Managers to frame a problem, both mathematically and within the business context.  ? Generate performance metrics to evaluate different machine and deep learning models.  ? Applied logistic regression model to Pre-Authorization Insurance products to predict product sales based upon call-center interface and external user interface.    Background Skills: Jupyter Notebook, scikit-learn , Python 3, pandas, numpy, seaborn, matplotlib, SQL Server 2012, Control-M Python Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA February 2015 to August 2017 Responsibilities:    ? Analyzed the system requirement specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Developed the project in Linux environment.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Worked on Python Open Stack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  ? Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  ? Developed frontend of application using Bootstrap (Model, View, Controller), Angular.js framework.  ? Implemented the Backbone JS for DOM manipulation as this is the light web framework compared to Angular JS.  ? Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  ? Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  ? Working knowledge of Java Web Services with real time knowledge using SOAP and REST.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  ? Worked on translation of web pages to different languages as per client requirements.  ? Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using PyMongo module.  ? Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on webpages using the data from MongoDB.  ? Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  ? Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service and etc.  ? Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  ? Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  ? Exposure to SCRUM Agile Methodologies and also ported existing applications to Python.  ? Developed a program to extract the GL account details, BOM details  ? Designed interface for Import/Export file from desktop to Webdynpro and vice versa.  ? Modified an SAP Script (RVADOR01) as per user requirements, which is for Sales Order Acknowledgement.  ? Enhanced existing webdynpro application based on the business requirement.  ? Worked on ALV Reports, Webdynpro Application, Dialog Programming, Forms, and Enhancements according to the requirement.  Background Skills: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet MS SQL Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Elastic search, T-SQL, Beautiful soup, ReportLab, PyMongo, TFS, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux Python developer Dallas, TX November 2012 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM,  ? Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Worked on several python packages  ? Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  ? Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes.  ? Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  ? Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  ? Worked on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  ? Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  ? Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  ? Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  ? Working on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  ? Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Rational Application Developer.  ? Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angularjs, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  ? Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views  ? Create new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development  ? Web development including standardizing the toolsets used from Eclipse to using Git for source control  ? Used Github repository for version control.  ? Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  ? Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  ? Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  ? Designed and Developed REST WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  ? Extensively worked on Application servers like Weblogic and Apache Tomcat.  ? Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT  Background Skills: Python, Django,HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript,Angular.js, AJAX, React.JS, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Java, Oracle, , PL/SQL, MS-Sql, JDBC, Maven, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, Subversion (SVN), Windows XP, Linux Python Engineer Ashland Chemical - Covington, KY July 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  ? Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  ? Created data access modules in python.  ? Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? sed Python & Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange & business logic implementation between servers.  ? Worked on development of backend services using Python, SQL and Linux. Created many API's for Iscrum project which involves creating and maintaining projects in an organization. and developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL.  ? Involved in developing a video calling application using python web-sockets.  ? Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency.  ? Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  ? Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  ? Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS  ? Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  ? Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  ? Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  ? Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI  ? Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  ? Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, Angularjs, JQuery and REST Services  ? Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  ? Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other javascript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  ? Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  ? Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  ? Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  ? Prepared statements are used for communication Sql database  ? Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  ? Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  ? Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL.    Background Skills: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (7 years), Bootstrap (7 years), CSS (7 years), Python (9 years), SQL (9 years)