Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Florida Department of Health ? Around 8 years of experience in systems analysis, design, development and implementation of web Application.  ? Experienced in application development using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle, SQL and SQLite.  ? More than 5 years of experience in Python and in Django.  ? Experienced in web UI design and interface development using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX and JSON.  ? Experienced in implementing MVC architectures using Full stack frameworks such as Django and Flask for developing web applications.  ? Worked in various domains like Health, Public Sector and Software services in designing web and enterprise applications.  ? Worked on control systems such as Git and SVN.  ? Worked with both SOAP and REST protocols for information exchange.  ? Experienced with ORM's such as Django and SQL Alchamy, database design and normalization.  ? Vastly experienced in Python,Object Oriented programming languages etc.  ? Experienced in various stages of software development life cycle that included analysis, design, development, deployment and testing of an application for business outputs.  ? Experienced in Agile software development- a framework that delivers customer collaboration and interaction with processes and tools.  ? Experienced in using Git, GitHub and deploying using Heroku.  ? Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results.  ? Experienced in concepts like Exceptional Handling, Inheritance.  ? Followed the best practice of Python such as PEP-8.  ? Worked on large data sets and performance optimization of delivering large datasets by using caching mechanism.  ? Developed proprietary frameworks on top of Django Rest Framework with cache and Numpy.  ? Worked on large datasets by using pandas and Numpy.  ? Experienced in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  ? Delivered projects with quality and before deadlines.  ? Experienced in manipulating and updating files in python.  ? Worked on various Integrated Development Environments like PyDev, PyCharm, PyScripter.  ? Experienced with server-side technologies including relational databases, RESTful services and MVC design patterns.  ? Good Exposure in maintaining various version controls.  ? Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  ? Experienced in maintain documentation of the highest quality and provide architecture solutions in the IT and sales.  ? Experienced in Test Driven Development and Unit Testing.  ? Can work with a team and independently with minimum supervision if required.  ? Experienced in working with different operating systems Windows, Linux, Ubuntu and UNIX.  ? Excellent team player, very dynamic, flexible with positive attitude and excellent learning skills. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Florida Department of Health - Tallahassee, FL September 2016 to Present Description: Florida Department of Health administers healthcare programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), and these three major national healthcare programs benefit about 100 million Americans.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked in comprehending and examining the client's business requirements.  ? Used Django frameworks and Python to build dynamic webpages.  ? Developed tools for monitoring and notification using Python.  ? Enhanced the application by using HTML and Java script for design and development.  ? Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  ? Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash and worked in tandem with the Flash developer to obtain the correct data through query string  ? Involved in designing database Model, API's, Views using python to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Implemented Data tables to add, delete, update and display patient records and policy information using PyQt.  ? Implemented a module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance using python.  ? Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  ? Improved the Data Security and generated report efficiently by caching and reusing data.  ? Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python-MySQL connector and retrieved information using MySQLdb.  ? Recorded the online users' data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using Pytest.  ? Developed the application using the TestDriven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular JS.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system,  ? Maintained and Updated the application in accordance to the clientele's requirement    Environment: Python 3, Django 1.6, Tableau 8.2, Beautiful soup, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Restful Web services, Apache spark, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse. Sr. Python Developer Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO August 2015 to August 2016 Description: Express Scripts provides integrated pharmacy benefit management services, including network-pharmacy claims processing, home delivery pharmacy care, specialty pharmacy care, specialty benefit management, benefit-design consultation, drug utilization review, formulary management and medical and drug data analysis services. Express Scripts are a company that practices pharmacy in a way that makes sure the customer can get sustained and affordable medical care.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed the system and client requirements, specifications in detail.  ? Developed the modules for the front end of the application with Python, CSS, AJAX and JQuery.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Flask, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Implemented web services to interact with UI using REST.  ? Updated parts of the webpage application using Java script and XML.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Implemented Backbone JS for creation of networking applications using JavaScript.  ? Implemented code for SQL queries to perform operations like Create, Read, Update and delete.  ? Worked in tandem with management teams regarding the product definition, scope and scheduling.  ? Managed and coordinated the development team at an offshore site  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  ? Skilled in using collections in python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.    Environment: Django, XML, HTML, CSS, IE8, FF, Safari, SQL, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, RESTful. Python Developer Solar Turbines - San Diego, CA January 2014 to July 2015 Description: Insight system was a system developed to help costumers understand the performance of the machinery. A graphical notation of the performance of turbines is given to the costumers on their mobile application and alert is raised if the performance drops down or any break down may happen based on the various other performance tracking as well.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the various phases of problem analysis, design and development and testing.  • Used the Numpy and sqlalchemy for mathematical and performance calculations using python.  • Transferred the Django data base with complete integrity of the data from SQL to PostgreSQL successfully.  • Integrated the Flash into CMS using the Flashvars stored in the Django Models.  • Created the XML with the Django for Flash to use it.  • Pyunit was used to create and execute the test plans  • Worked with the testing team for resolving bugs.  • Worked in tandem with the testing team for debugging.  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.    Environment: Python 2.7, Windows, Django, MySQL, PostgreSQL and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, MySQL DB. Python Developer Flagstar Bank - Troy, MI October 2011 to December 2013 Description: Flagstar Bank, a federally chartered stock savings bank. It is the largest publicly traded savings bank in Michigan and also a leading mortgage lender and a national leader in the wholesale mortgage business.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed Python scripts to read from Excel files, generate XML configuration files and for generating IP access frequency lists in different data logs.  ? Designed and developed different web based applications based on the client requirements..  ? Created webforms using Python/Django Framework that saved data into a database.  ? Utilized Pandas - python library for analyzing data and data structures.  ? Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and SQLite  ? Performed front-end development for web initiatives to ensure usability, using HTML and CSS.  ? Tested all completed work to ensure proper and error free functionality  ? Enhanced quality, feel, and usability of consumer-facing website  ? Wrote Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams Sequence Diagrams, and State Diagrams.  ? Designed manuals, workbooks, and other printed media for reference purpose.  ? Created and executed custom SQL queries and stored procedures and also created an application to stored client phone calls and emails that were routed to various developers.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.2, Pandas, CherryPy, Flask, SQLite, Jenkins, HTML, CSS. Python Developer Alpharetta, GA January 2010 to September 2011 Description: A revenue cycle management company that provides premium services in many disciplines like technology, advisory expertise, analytics and education programs. They also provide financial and operational expertise for health care systems.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements for the project and design.  • Performed the UI development using Java Script, HTML.  • Used to python to convert from visual basic.  • Updated and manipulated the contents and files in the data base by implementing python scripts.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Implemented using SQL and SQL stored procedures to create a data access for the database.  • Performed Unit/System test.  • Encrypted and Decrypted the ISO standard message using python.  • Ensured that the data collection was high and maintained the integrity of the data.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLibv for matrices and visualisation.  • Installed and implemented the environment code and SVN respectively.  • Used Django models to create database mapping classes  • Performed large data manipulation and retrieval using the Pandas API and converted the data as a time series  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Scipy, Pandas, BugZilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, JASPER, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache. Software Engineer / Python SIM Solutions Pvt Ltd - Delhi, Delhi September 2008 to October 2009 Description: They are an Ecommerce company that provides premium services in different specialities. Some of them are Online Retail Store Management; Microsoft RMS integrated Shopping Cart Solution, eBay Store Handling, Webstore - Facebook Integration, e-Store operations, Tally ecommerce Integration, and SEO.    Responsibilities:  ? Tasks include gathering requirement, performing analysis along with development and design as part of the software development cycle.  ? Responsible for creating use case outline, activity flow diagrams and object/class diagrams in the initial phase.  ? Performed the data transition and API to Oracle from the Sybase ASE.  ? Performed the transition of PL/SQL code to Oracle to Sybase.  ? Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  ? Involved in the library transition to Oracle API from Sybase API.  ? Automated the testing using python.    Environment: Python 2.7, Shell scripting/SQL, SVN, Quality Centre, Solaris, Windows, Perl.