Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Maximus Columbus, OH • 6 years of experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE, Django, flask project.  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Developed Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications.usingCore Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC architecture using Spring MVC and SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall.  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Studio, IDLE.  • Experience on Ruby Reg-Ex for pattern and Text matching.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB,Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite,PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.    • Experience on Web development using HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSONby following W3C standards.    • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront, Route 53.  • Good experience with Unix, Linux scripting/unit testing/Load testing, Performance stress/endurance testing and Integration Testing; tools and frameworks- Junit, PyUnit, HP VUGEN LoadRunner, Selenium Web driver, Controller, Dynatrace, Performance Center, QC, JIRA.  • Experience in Agile scrum development techniques, sprint releases and TDD.  • Knowledge in R language, Hadoop, big data analytics, ML packages and data mining.  • Querying web based databases for internal stakeholders to perform data analytics.  • Experience in Python OpenSatck API'S  • High-level experience in Base SAS, SAS/Macros, SAS/SQL, SAS/Stat, SAS/Connect, SAS/Access, SAS/Graph, SAS/ODS, SAS/EBI, SAS/Grid, SAS Visualizer, SAS/ETS and SPSS modeler.  • Write MATLAB code to create discretized computer models of sloped levy geometries.  • Created video publishing toolkit using WordPress (PHP/MySQL) and JavaScript to allow easy uploading of video by non-technical content mangers.  • Continuously manages multiple deadlines and competing priorities through proactively planning and managing tasks and resources.  • Detailed oriented and resourceful in the completion of projects with an ability to multitask and meet strict deadlines.  • Willingness to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Maximus - Baltimore, MD September 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  Responsibilities:    • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7,2.5, Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Writing backend programming in Python.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage and Node.js for server side interaction.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used spring, JDBC and JPA at persistence layer (DAO).  • Used Adobe CQ for helping with reusing the components and templates for creating different web pages.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Analyzed digital consumer experiences based on foundation of the Adobe CQ/AEM product suite.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Worked in PostgreSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7,2.5, Java 1.7, Django 1.7, 1.5, HTML5, CSS, XML, PostgreSQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet MS SQL Server, Nginix server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Elastic search, T-SQL, Beautiful soup, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, and MAC OSX. Python Developer Cigna - Hartford, CT June 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Wrote programs for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  • Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, REST, SOAP.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development. Framework based on CherryPy with GnuPg encryption (reGnuPg module) on the top.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Design and Setting up of environment of Mongodb with shards and replicasets. (Dev/Test and Production).  • Test software and hardware configurations of the in-fight entertainment system.  • Experience with bug-tracking Jira, source code management tools Git, GitHub, Stash and team collaboration software SAAS tool Confluence.  • Support in-fight entertainment system development designing and running system tests.  • Responsible for system debugging in lab, performance improvement for customer issues and field trials. Solved numerous customer issues.    Environment: Python 2.7, Windows, MySQL, flask and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, MysqlDB, Django 1.4, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developerr Cloud Sherpas - Atlanta, GA October 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.    Environment: Python 2.7,2.5, Java 1.7, Django 1.7, 1.5, HTML5, CSS, XML, PostgreSQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet MS SQL Server, Nginix server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Elastic search, T-SQL, Beautiful soup, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, and MAC OSX. Python Developer Call One - Chicago, IL May 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system. This is a Customer feedback and complains management system.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix/VB  • Development of Application using Java and Python  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services  • Data set up using SQL/ORACLE/Teradata.  • Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations  • Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web based logic rather than correlation and parameterization.  • Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analysing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc.  • Testing in citrix protocol with scripts and scenario  • Execution of batch jobs in Control M, Perfmon and other tools  • Scripting and validation of scripts through correlation, parameterization and web based logic testing (Smoke test, Load test, Endurance) using Controller for a duration further analysis, checking response times, CPU utilizations, memory leaks of servers and other performance characteristics of the website through capturing Perfmon logs and creating PAPAL reports and creating test reports.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization (SEO) to improve the visibility of the website  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, C+, HP LOAD (VUGEN, Controller, etc.) Putty, SQL, Teradata, SoapUI, ControlM, PerfMon, Django Web Framework, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems Windows 98/2000/XP/7,8,Mac OS, UNIX and Linux CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu  Programming Languages Python, Java, C#, PHP  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and CSS Bootstrap.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, PyJamas, Jython, Angular JS, Node JS, Spring, Hibernate  Webserver ApacheHTTP webserver, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat  IDE Eclipse, webstorm, Sublime Text, Brackets, Pycharm, Pystudio, Pyscripter.  Analytic Tools Google Analytics Fiddler  Cloud Computing AWS EC2, S3, RDS(MY SQL), SQS  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2, Jenkins and Fabric  J2EE JDBC, JNDI, JSP and servlets  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, MySQL, Sqlite3, Cassandra, Redis and mongo DB  Testing Tools Bugzilla, Jasmine, Pyunit, JIRA and Junit  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP  Miscellaneous Git, SVN, CVS