Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Samsonite • Around 9 years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: libraries- BeautifulSoup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networks, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive .com  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Basic understanding of protocols/technologies like HTTP, LDAP, JDBC, SSL, Servlet/JSP, SQL, HTML, XML.  • Good knowledge on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Strong experience in Big data, Bigdata Integration and Analytics technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, Kafka, Storm  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Sound experience in Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Experience in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid for developing web applications.  • Extended Testing framework by adding some helper classes and methods  • Good Knowledge in implementation of Python best Practices (PEP-8).  • Good at writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MySQL, DB2.  • Proficient in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, Notepad++ and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  • Experienced in developing test automation framework with Python scripting& Selenium.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1), Kubernetes and Mongo DB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DBF net.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, PCI, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, Data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Worked on various operating systems like Windows, UNIX and LINUX.  • Experienced in Shell Scripting and UNIX commands.  • Shares expertise throughout the organization and may provide user training for products  • Excellent in Business Analytics. Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in team environment. Work Experience Python Developer Samsonite - Mansfield, MA January 2016 to Present Description: Samsonite International S.A.is an American luggage manufacturer and retailer, headquarters located in MN. My work is on a web-based Python application, created to help online users. The Developed Website offers a variety of plans, as well as tools to help you choose the plan that's right for users.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile development following Scrum process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Created application structure based on Angular style guides and best practices  • Created user interface components using Angular Js and React Js  • Ability to create React Redux based applications, using ReactJS components(View) based frontend and Redux (Model & Controller) based backend architecture.  • Redesigned whole campaign visualization: segment tree to be dynamic using ReactJS, React -toolbox.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVT (Model View Template) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery  • Used OOP to develop network communications between departments within the building  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python to build responsive web page application.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers, Kubernetes and deploying in Mesos  • Developed multiple React Redux based pages that provided functionality for Login/Logout, display of vendor data like vendor opportunity, top vendors, a tile-based display of important overview information, summary metrics etc.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Used Kafka for asynchronous and reliable exchange of important information between multiple business applications.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications  • Used Selenium Libraries to write fully functioning test automation process.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Jira.  • Importing and sending out information into HDFS and Hive utilizing Sqoop and Kafka.  • Used Test Director/QC for defect tracking.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project  • Worked with product teams to improve documentation of Ansible development environments; identified additional tests for Ansible roles that could be done via Test Kitchen, QC, Docker, and Server spec or Git Lab CI  • Importing and sending out information into HDFS and Hive utilizing Sqoop and Kafka.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, Ansible and AWS Cloud Templates.  • Installed and maintained Jenkins for Continuous Delivery as well as automate Ansible Playbook runs against production infrastructure  • Configure, implement, and automate Continuous Integration and Deployment pipelines for software delivery teams utilizing Jenkins and other supporting tools  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Documented company Restful API's using Swagger for internal and third part use and worked on Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Used Git for the version control.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Collaborated with internal teams and external teams to solve the issues and giving feedbacks.  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Documented the problems and progress of project most accurately  • Extensive knowledge and experience in Microsoft Office tools like MS Access, MS word, MS PowerPoint and MS Excel.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, Ansible, jQuery, AWS, GitHub, JIRA, MS Office, and UNIX. Python Developer Minneapolis, MN April 2014 to December 2015 Description: Target is recognized as a leader in innovation across the retail industry. From pioneering the concept of designer partnerships to consistently being best in class in store design, Target remains focused on not only meeting, but exceeding, its guests' needs.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software  • Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application. Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Used Salt Stack to configure and manage the infrastructure.  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application  • Developed and Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug,  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development  Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, HTML, CSS, NoSQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services. Python Programmer / Analyst HSBC - Buffalo, NY July 2012 to March 2014 Description: HSBC offers a variety of banking products and financial solutions like hedge funds, small business, retail banking, equity loans, asset management, wealth management, corporate and investment banking and credit card services to its customers. Involved with the Insurance Department and provide development and maintenance and web support of the online portal handling the transactions.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Used Pandas ( Python library) for Statistical Analysis.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library  • Using Subversion version control tool (GIT) to coordinate team-development and added the project to GitHub.  • Thoroughly used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python to build responsive web page application.  • Implemented several sockets, TCP/IP, UDP, Twisted ZeroMq, XMLRPC programs to retrieve data from various data centers  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Created Workbooks and dashboards for analyzing statistical billing data using Tableau 9.0.  • Designed and developed various analytical reports from multiple data sources by blending data on a single worksheet in Tableau Desktop  Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.8, Shell Scripting, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Tableau. Python Developer Illumina - San Diego, CA December 2011 to June 2012 Description: Web applications are developed to store and retrieve data by implementing HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript for user interface and Django, Python based packages are implemented.  Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Built Python scripts to identify and correct erroneous data in PostgreSQL database using clustering, regression, and statistics  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using PHP/ Python.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Rewrite existing Java modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting of web application.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintenance of the website  Environment: Python 2.6, Django web framework, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, REST API, Beautiful Soup. Python Developer Renown - IN October 2010 to November 2011 Description: Renown is a dedicated Business Solutions Company tailored to the needs of our clients. We pride ourselves on our unique, industry-leading understanding of your business which produces quality sales, amazing customer service  Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQL Alchemy).  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development. Framework based on CherryPy with GnuPg encryption (reGnuPg module) on the top.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, Intellij IDEA.  • Design and Setting up of environment of Mongo dB with shards and replica sets. (Dev/Test and Production).  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, JQuery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, and Nose.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Web application development using Python 3.2/2.7, Django 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Extensively used Python / Django / Flask Framework for developing backend of applications.  • NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, and upload these charts to wiki and backup the database.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Perforce for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Quality Center. Python Developer HDFC Life - IN June 2009 to September 2010 Description: HDFC life is one of the largest health insurers in INDIA. HDFC uses a managed health care package. This project aims at providing maintenance, enhancement, and development of the HDFC system. Work requirements are basically segregated as issues (Maintenance) and enhancements tasks. Generally, Customer raises issues when the problem is found in the system during normal working. These issues are generally batched up and sent to us for resolution. We look at the business perspective of the problem and provide estimates and solution through design, coding, testing, and delivery.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in PostgreSQL.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Participated in multiple sprint cycles, addressing requirements for UI development.  • Used decorators, list comprehensions, functional programming, unit tests, multiple staging environments and global team remote collaboration.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Linux. Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills DJANGO (9 years), PYTHON (9 years), CSS (7 years), HTML (7 years), jQuery (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: C, C++, Python-3.5 & 2.7, SQL and Shell Scripting.  Python Libraries: Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Numpy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pyside, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, pdb  Frameworks: Django, Spark, web2py, pyramid, Flask, Mongodb and CSS Bootstrap    Technologies: HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS  Version Control: GIT (GitHub), SVN, CVS, Bitbucket  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP, SMTP  IDE's/ Development Tools: NetBeans, Android Studio, Py Charm, Eclipse and Sublime Text.  Application Tools: Net Beans, Eclipse (SE, EE, Android), Visual Studio, MySQL  Deployment Tools: Heroku, Jenkins  Tracking Tools: Bugzilla and JIRA.    Methodologies: Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  Databases: Access, SQL Server, MySQL, Teradata, Oracle.  Software packages: MS Word, Advanced MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, SQL Plus  Reporting Tools: SSRS, Tableau, MS-Word, and MS-PowerPoint.  Operating systems: Linux/Unix, Windows Variants    Professional Skills: