Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Orabase Dallas, TX • 5+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software in Python on various domains.  • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront.  • Experience in implementation of Python web frameworks like Django, Flask, Pylons, Web2py andPythonServlet Engine (PSE).  • Experienced in working with variousPythonIntegrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm and Sublime Text.  • Experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts inPythonand java.  • Proficient in Object oriented programming such as C, C++, C# as well as experience with MS SQL Server, ASP. NET, MVC, and ORM frameworks  • Strong understanding of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, web services, Visual Studio, design and architectural patterns, and window services  • Ability to analyze and understand complex problems, and generate appropriate technical solutions independently  • Experienced in using various Hadoop infrastructures such as Map Reduce, Hive, Sqoop, and Oozie.  • Experience in GIT, Jenkins, Continuous Development (CD)/Continuous Integration (CI), General understanding of networking concepts.  • Excellent knowledge onPythonCollections and Multi-Threading.  • Experience in working on various pythonpackages such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy,matplotlib, Beautiful soup, pickle, PySide, SciPy, and PyTables.  • Experienced in implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django, MYSQL, Exception Handling and Collections using Python.  • Worked with MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script, jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Experience in writing JSON REST APIs using Golang.  • Strong experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, emacs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Orabase - Dallas, TX September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Contributing in the design and creation of RESTful APIs usingPython/Django/Django Rest Framework.  • Designed and implemented Devops roadmaps focusing on toolset and practices to be followed.  • Provided technical support on networking including port-forwarding, TCP/IP settings.  • Provided critical data analytical solutions for firm's one of the largest data migration project utilizing SQL.  • Backup and restore mongo databases using LVM snapshots and Ops manager backups.  • Development using Object-Oriented Python, NumPy, SciPy, I Python, Pandas and in-house libraries, Web interface development, Data management on a terabyte scale.  • Ensured standards are maintained for firewalls and other network device version updates.  • Using JMeter to perform performance testing with heavy volume to data.  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Migrated views and Tables from SQL to Amazon Redshift successfully despite Redshift with different compatibility in querying.  • Proficiency in API security frameworks, token management and user access control including OAuth, JWT, etc.  • Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  • Optimizing MongoDB CRUD Operations.  • UsedPythonand Django for JSON processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Worked onPythonOpen stack API's.  • Created server-monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics, which I created.  • Pyspark we implemented Caching, Accumulators and UDF's  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solutions.  • Independently involved in writing Python scripts interacting with Google Cloud Storage, Datastore.  • Worked with other junior programmers in developing ERP software for systems and windows service for data files as well as assisted in designing and creating web-pages and new database  • Worked with tables from Oracle/MySQL/PostgreSQL databases with python.  Environment: Python2.7,Django 1.9, C#, HTML, CSS, Node.js, JavaScript, jQuery, AWS, Github, Pyspark, agile, Oracle. Python Programmer Sherwin-Williams - Cleveland, OH August 2015 to August 2017 Description: SW is one of the leading manufacturers of hard disks and other electronic products like wireless routers. The company started with selling of IC chips and later moved towards storage. The company has products in set top box market competing with other popular ones.  Responsibilities  Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, and JSON to design and develop the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Hands on experience working with pandas and python libraries.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of PyYAML libraries.  • Written Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developing scalable front-end user interfaces using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.JS and Mongo DB.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Hands on experience on working with Selenium API.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment:  Python 3.6/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, Pandas, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting Python Developer Yaaltech - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to July 2015 Role: Web / Python Developer    Responsibilities:  • CreatedPythonand Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations, data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration,  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes  • DevelopedPythonbased API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django  • Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands  • Led the development of parsers for handling JSON, XML responses and JAXB binding  • Worked with JMS (java messaging service) for asynchronous communication  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery  • Built client pages using HTML, JSP, XML to interact with users, and the business logic is implemented using Servlets and Java Beans  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Publish and Consume Contract First SOAP web services using spring & Restful Web services using Jersey  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Worked on JMS components for asynchronous messaging  • Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading  • Implemented code MVC2 framework using JSP's JavaBeans & Servlets  • UtilizedPythonlibraries NumPy, Twisted and matplotlib  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery,  • Worked on various environmentPython, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, git, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts.    Environment: AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, JSP, Servlets, Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript jQuery, JavaScript, Shell Scripts. Education Master of Science in Computer Information Technology in Research and Projects include Kent State University - Kent, OH Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana