Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Apple Inc Sunnyvale, CA • 8 years of IT experience as a python developer web/application developer in Django.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Using django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, MongoDB, Jinja, WSGI, Fabric, PostgreSQL, and Redis.  • Experience in full SDLC starting from collecting Business specifications, Analysis, Design and Development, Testing and documenting the entire life cycle using various methodologies. Involved in projects using agile and Extreme Programming methodologies.  • Applied HTML, HTML5, XML, DHTML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, and AJAX to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Testing a program by running it across test cases to ensure Experience in creating unittest cases and mock objects to ensure validity and effectiveness of code.  • Experience in writing/editing web content, technical and user documentation, business process analysis, process flowcharting and documentation.  • Expertise using and deploying enterprise applications in Tomcat.  • Thorough understanding of Database Application Designs and Implementation using Oracle, MySQL and SQL Server. Good understanding of PL/SQL Normalizing and De-Normalizing Databases for performance.  • Experience using no SQL database MongoDB. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Apple Inc - Sunnyvale, CA July 2017 to Present Apple Inc. is a technology company, it designs, develops, and sells consumer electronics, computer software, and online services.  Project Description:  In GBI platform, client need to develop ETL API in python which will mine data from different databases and develop new database schema to store all mined data  Responsibilities:  • Design and develop ETL APIs which will automate the data mining in different database sources.  • Use TCP/IP protocol to connect with server which has database available to connect for the ETL tool.  • The application also look for data mining workflow and services health check and integrate HQL and SQL queries in it.  • Create custom DB APIs in python to connect with database and write SQL procedure to mine data.  • Validate all mined data and store in Oracle DB.  • Unit test all develop module using pyunit and nose test framework, also develop custom scenario to test worst case scenario for the application.  • For version control I have use Gitlab.  • Maintain all job report and heath of the job. Time by time generate email to all upper management team and associated project developer regarding job status.    Environment: Python, PyCharm, Hadoop, Oozie, Eclipse, Sublime, Linux, Shell Scripting, Mac, Gitlab. Python Developer CA Technology - Santa Clara, CA February 2017 to July 2017 CA Technology is pioneer solution in APM(Application Performance Management).  Project Description:  Design and develop a prototype software to Python Agent to major python web applications.  Responsibilities:  • Design and develop prototype python agent which will independently work with any python web application.  • The python agent will fork multiprocessing and also fork into multithreading to achieve parallel process and multi task while invoking python agent.  • Make connection with using TCP/IP protocol with the help of Socket module in python to connect with .external java collector to monitor application performance.  • Use dynamic instrumentation and monkey patch on runtime to change the method/class behavior.  • I have use Git for version control for the build  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user    Environment: Python, PyCharm, Linux, Shell Scripting, Mac, Git. Python Developer Airbus - San Jose, CA November 2016 to February 2017 A^3 is software developing wing of leading aviation company Airbus. A^3, it designs, develops new prototype software to use in aviation industry.  Project Description:  Design and develop a prototype software to streamline assembly line for various plane factory for Airbus.  Responsibilities:  • Design and develop python micro services with using simpy module to calculate complicated time consumption by each operation in assembly line.  • Take input as XML file as any factory assembly line operations and distinguish all operation and the sequence of all operation and timing of each operation to finish task.  • Check all the operation shared any rehouses or not  • Develop O/P as CSV file which will execute the operation for certain numbers of parts to be finish.  • Develop exception cases, test the build with using unit test and also develop test case scenario for build.  • I have use Git for version control for the build  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user    Environment: Python, PyCharmLinux, Shell Scripting, Mac, Git, Simpy. Python Developer Apple Inc - Sunnyvale, CA July 2016 to November 2016 Apple Inc. is a technology company, it designs, develops, and sells consumer electronics, computer software, and online services.  Project Description:  I am part of GBI team which will look after itune services, in the project I have assign to develop an interactive tool which integrate different database workflow and mining of database. The tool trigger various database workflow which mine data from different database, Hadoop, SAP-BW, Oracle.  Responsibilities:  • Design and develop modular tool and micro-services which trigger different workflow which mine data from database.  • The application will interact numbers of server to get workflow and star mining job.  • Design DB schema in Oracle to work as primary DB for the Hadoop triage tool validate DB schema for validate data before dump all the data in Oracle.  • Use the SQL queries to filter DB and validate data in it.  • The application also look for data mining workflow and services health check and integrate HQL and SQL queries in it.  • If anything has been change in any workflow or any database queries it will detects and start a new job and make a log for it.  • This tool dump all mine data in in Oracle from various data mining tool like Hadoop and it will integrated with Oozie workflow.  • For version control I have use Gitlab.  • Maintain all job report and heath of the job. Time by time generate email to all upper management team and associated project developer regarding job status.    Environment: Python, PyCharm, Hadoop, Oozie, Eclipse, Sublime, Linux, Shell Scripting, Mac, Gitlab. Python Developer VMware - Palo Alto, CA March 2015 to June 2016 VMware is a cloud infrastructure and business mobility solutions break the bonds that tie IT systems and end-user environments to physical hardware, providing both IT and the business greater efficiency, agility and control.    Project Description:  Working on a secure and collaborative development environment that connects financial department payment system. Establish a single source of the truth for product information and processes.  Responsibilities:  • Part of the development team which is assigned to develop payment transaction and maintain financial reports for the department.  • Write models in django RESTful API environment to interact with RDBMS and no-SQL DB.  • Write ORMs query for search database from different DB and for generate different reports.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal finance team.  • Using the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Write unit test cases with individually and in suits using pyunit.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Use integrated framework Jenkins  • Host all codes in Github repositories.    Environment: Django, Jenkins, Python, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, Git, Agile, Scrum. Python Developer Blue Cross and Blue Shield - Durham, NC August 2013 to February 2015 BCBS serves as the trade association that represents our 36 BCBS companies while providing national leadership with industry.  Project Description:  Developed intranet Human Resource Planning application for HR department to keep track on employees records, allowances and benefits. The application also generate various kind of reports.  Responsibilities:  • Developed an application for HR department in Django environment.  • Involved development of application's views, models.  • Developed various kinds of reports with using ORMs and SQL quarries to import data from DB.  • Write DB schema for mongo DB and Radis No SQL DB.  • Created tool to generate excel file from reports.  • Involved in test driven development and load testing.  • Checked and validate finished application for testing team.  • Troubleshoot developed projects identify errors and develops solutions.  • Maintained ongoing projects.  • Use Ansible to maintain DB server and App Server  • Worked on AWS using EC2 instances, setting security groups (ports, source) handling events between python scripts and linux server.  • Designed templates and forms using html, css.  • Maintained version control using git.    Environment: Python, Linux, Shell Scripting, Django Framework, SQL, MySQL, ORMs, Mongo, Redish, git, Ansible. Python Developer Net App - Durham, NC December 2011 to July 2013 Throughout the world, leading organizations count on NetApp for software, systems, and services to manage and store their data. NetApp help enterprises and service providers envision, deploy, and evolve their IT environments  Project Description:  Worked on interactive portal for marketing department which handle event management for marketing.  Responsibilities:  • Wrote application views which triggered by URLs and open respected templates  • Developed different REST APIs in Jinja and flask framework with using python scripting.  • Developed Python ORMs fetched data from DB.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Followed MVC Structure to develop Application.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Chrome) on both Windows.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, Oracle, AJAX, Redis, oracle, MongoDB. ASP.Net Developer Dotcom Services (India) Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2009 to November 2011 Dot Com India PVT LTD is a web solution provider. It provide web development as well as web hosting services.  Project Description:  Part of development team which develop back end logic for interactive web pages in ASP.net with using C#.  Responsibilities:  • Assigned to develop interactive websites with using C#.  • Responsible for backend development in environment of Visual studio 2005/2008, designed and developed database in MS SQL 2005/2008.  • Worked in a team, Involved in developing the backend with C#, design database and create database schema for web application that matches requirements of the company.  • Excellent Coordination in project activities and ensured that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Integrated different web-services like SMS in admin website to create bulk messages for website users.    Environment: C#, MS SQL, Visual Studio, Visio, HTML, CSS. Skills database (4 years), django (4 years), html (5 years), Python (5 years), SQL (6 years) Additional Information Skills    • Programming/Scripts Languages:- C, C++, JAVA, Python, C#, SQL, PostgreSQL, HTML, HTML5, CSS3 , Bootstrap, JQuery,  • Database:- My SQL, Oracle, MongoDB, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Hadoop  • Framework:- Django, flask, jinja, Jenkins, OOzie  • Application Server:- Apache Tomcat, AWS, Ansible  • Designing Tools:- UML, MS-Visio, Notepad++  • Development Tools:- Visual Studio, Sublime, PyCharm, Eclipse  • Application Tools: - MS-Office, MS-Project, GIT, Bit Bucket.    GITHUB: - https://github.com/Patibandha/Django-Project