Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Alert Enterprises Fremont, CA • Around 8 years of experience in Web and Application Development coding in Python, Django and Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Experienced with full software development life cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Experience in Cassandra Database Configurations and its C++ client libQt Cassandra.  • Advised organizations about big data, a big data strategy, the implementation of big data, which technologies best fit the needs of the organization and even implements the selected big data solution  • Experience in Python Open Stack API'S  • Write MATLAB code to create discretized computer models of sloped levy geometries.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Strong knowledge on Dev Express Controls.  • Strong database design and programming skills in SQL Server 2012/2008/2005, SQL Stored  Procedures, functions, triggers, Cursors, Indexing, importing/exporting data from varied data sources  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experience in developing ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Work Experience Python Developer Alert Enterprises - Fremont, CA June 2015 to Present Alert Enterprise, based in Silicon Valley, uniquely delivers Information Technology and Operational Technology (IT-OT) Convergence for Corporate and Critical Infrastructure protection. See more at: http://www.alertenterprise.com/company-overview.php#sthash.bhZk2vLM.dpuf  Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO)  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation of the application.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 3.3, Django 1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, C++, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Sr. Python Developer EXAMITY - Natick, MA April 2014 to May 2015 Examity offers live online proctoring for academic institutions & universities by using a webcam to monitor students taking exams online to prevent cheating.  Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with Rabbit MQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and Soap UI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, Dev Centre, Data stax Ops center.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, iter tools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Trained extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum stand ups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with clients.  Environment: Python, Django, Cassandra, RabbitMQ, Vugen, Soap UI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, Agile. Sr. Python Developer FM Global - Johnston, RI January 2013 to March 2014 This is a mutual insurance company, with offices worldwide, that specializes in loss prevention services primarily to large corporations throughout the world in the Highly Protected Risk (HPR) property insurance market sector.  Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used PHP as an HTML embedded scripting language, in front end web development.  • I have used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used LINUX as trouble shooter for systems.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, PHP, AJAX, Cassandra, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, Git, GitHub, JAVA Python Developer Bosch Designs - Novi, MI October 2012 to December 2012 Bosch designs and produces precision automotive components and systems sold to vehicle and powertrain manufacturers worldwide. These include systems and components for gasoline and diesel injection, airbag components, ABS and conventional braking systems, telematics, as well as small motors, electrical and electronic equipment. Worked on development of Warranty and defects tracking system  Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQL Alchemy)  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development. Framework based on CherryPy with GnuPg encryption (reGnuPg module) on the top.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Design and Setting up of environment of Mongo dB with shards and replica sets. (Dev/Test and Production)  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, Cherry Py, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose.  • Modifying data using SAS/BASE, SAS/ MACROS.  • Extracting data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS data sets.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed.  • NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Perforce for the version control.    Environment: Python, Django 1.4, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer Bharath Petroleum Corporate April 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Software Engineer / Python SIM Solutions Pvt Ltd May 2008 to March 2010 An e Commerce company (HQ in California, US) providing services in multiple disciplines, like - On line Shopping Cart Development, On line Promotion, Price Comparison Shopping, SEO, Customer & Technical Support through - Chat, Email and Voice.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Responsible for entire data migration from Sybase ASE server to Oracle  • Migration of API code written for Sybase to Oracle.  • Overlook the migration activity of PL/SQL programs  • Migration of the PL/SQL code from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's  • Automation of testing using Python.  Environment: Python 2.7, Shell scripting, PL/SQL, SVN, Quality Center, Solaris, Windows, perl. Additional Information Technical Skills:  OS Platforms Linux/Unix, Windows 98/NT, MAC OSX  Languages Python 2.7/2.4, Java, Shell Script, Perl, Scala  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, PostgreSQL  Web Technologies AJAX, AWS EC Cloud, Amazon S3 JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Git, SVN  Web servers Apache, Nginix, Tomcat, JBoss  Framework Django, Flask  Other Tools Putty, SQL developer, Photoshop, JIRA, Open stack