Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - NVIDIA Corporation Santa Clara, CA • 9 years of professional Development Experience with strong application designing skills using Python, C, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  • Extensive experience in Python web frame works like Django in implementing MVC architecture.  • Experience in working with python editors like Visual Studio, PyCharm, Wing IDE, Sublime Text.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server and Linux.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Django, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, tables, views, triggers.  • Have good idea about development tools like Jira, Bugzilla and Confluence.  • Knowledge of the software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Experience in developing and documenting Test Plans and automation releases.  • Worked on Agile/Scrum methodology.  • Good programming, problem solving skills, commitment, and result oriented, with a quest and zeal to learn new technologies.  • Developed applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly Perforce, GIT and knowledge of subversion SVN.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications in proper deadlines.  • Ability to learn quickly and to correctly apply new tools and technology.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer NVIDIA Corporation - Santa Clara, CA January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used python Pandas library to create dataframes. Wrote python scripts using pandas dataframe to get data from two different databases and applied joins.  • Developed and validate sanity workflow related MySQL queries.  • Developed ETL Scripts in python to get data from one database table and insert, update the resultant data to another database table.  • Wrote Python and batch scripts to automate the ETL scripts runs every hour.  • Managed datasets using Pandas dataframes and MySQL database queries from python using Python-Pyodbc connector package to retrieve information.  • Worked on Windows Server VM to run reporting scripts each day and make the reports available via HTTP using an IIS virtual directory.  • Create on-demand daily and weekly reports by invoking scripts with custom arguments and parameters to provide actionable data to the test owners.  • Create and write result reports in different formats like txt, csv, xls, and json.  • Used Perforce version control system and Python tools for vistual studio(PTVS) IDE.  • Consumed API's and used python requests to read json reports and file automatic bugs in the NVBugs (NVIDIA's internal bug filing/tracking system) for intermittent tests.  • Automated moving the tests from production to staging and staging to production by reading the keywords from NVBugs.  • Scheduling tasks on windows task scheduler to run the python scripts to generate reports for frequent interval of times and also send email alerts.  • Used Numpy and Matplotlib libraries. Created bar charts using matplotlib library.    Environment: Python 3.5, MySQL, Visual studio (PTVS), Pycharm, Rest, Json, Perforce, JIRA, HTML, XML, Windows. Python Developer Trinity Health Organization - Livonia, MI June 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Interceptors, validators, actions using Django1.7 framework.  • Extensively used Django Technologies, which includes forms, templates and ORM for communication with Database in different forms.  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Used Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for Software Development.  • Developed the applications using Django 1.7 MTV Framework which is based on Model Template View design pattern.  • Developed Custom Tags to simplify the template code. Designed UI screens using templates, Ajax, HTML, and JSON. Used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Developed the database tier using Django ORM.  • Used RestAPI for sending and getting data from different applications using Json such as task details from Work distribution, data feeds from EFA, getting the status on the same, etc. Used Django Rest framework for creating the Web Services.  • Used JavaScript/JQuery/Ajax and Bootstrap to develop Interactive WebPages and Single Page Applications.  • Used Pylint framework for unit testing of applications and deployed on Nginx and Gunicorn.  • Developed restful Web-services using Django Rest framework in Python. Used Jenkins to build the applications from the repository and to deploy on the Server.  • Used GIT for version control and used Pycharm for development.  • Participated in User Acceptance Test, Requirements Gathering etc.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, Django Rest framework, Rest, Json, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, GIT, Pylint, Jenkins, MySQL, Pycharm, Windows, LINUX. Python Developer World Fuel Services - Miami, FL January 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed applications implementing MVC architecture Django frame work.  • Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML for designing to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Associated with designing and developing Views, Model and Controller components implementing MVC Framework.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Prepared various database queries using H-query  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Associated on CSS, Bootstrap to develop web applications  • Implemented Model View Control architecture in developing web applications using Django frame work.  • Supported an application and built additional functionalities using Python  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package to retrieve information.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs  • Troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTFUL web services.  • This involves designing database model for the entire application like creating tables, views and stored procedure with PL/SQL programming.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Creating database schema for MySQL Database and helped to draw ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Designed low-level and High-level documentation for entire application, this involves in designing.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Installing python packages like numpy, scipy in Linux environment.  • Hand full experience on LINUX operating system.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Used extracted data for analysis and carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python library - numpy, scipy    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, PL/SQL, Linux, GIT. Python Developer Department of Health and Human Services May 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Implemented front end for third party Web service using JQuery, Html, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework.  • Designed, added and maintained new database tables for new functions.  • Implemented Navigating flow. Override the default navigation flow for the UI.  • Migration of Test Content to Automation Tool using Python and XML.  • Analyzes and improves application efficiency by optimizing queries and contents for Django  • Implemented Household Eligibility Verification model. Allowed system communicates with third party organization to verify the house income amount and pass the information to the next model.  • Implemented Master Eligibility Verification model. Allowed systems perform all eligibility.  • Managed code versioning with Github and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Implemented DAO database access objects.  • Validate test content in Emulation for SoC Display Controller.  • Associated with development of Web Services using RestAPI for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format.  • Designed and developed reporting modules for the application and implemented the pagination.  • Written SQLs and Stored Procedures.  • Worked on operating systems like Linux.  • Associated with code review and code test.  • Supported DEV testing tools like DEV, INT and UAT  • Responsible for new development and change request within the scope of the project.    Environment: Python, JavaScript, SQL, Ajax, Html, CSS, Linux, Web services, XML, JQuery. Python Developer Bristol Myers Squibb - Tampa, FL January 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Working on multiple projects such as development of functionality Test cases for Portable devices and Web development in Media Validation Team.  • Development of test cases and execution of Manual and Automated Test cases for Tablets and Mobiles.  • Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  • Designed the front end web pages using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX. Used CSS for better appearance. Writing templates for front end pages where we include HTML pages and JavaScript files knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based websites in Windows.  • Used AJAX to modify small portions of the web pages by sending a request to the server avoiding the need of reloading the entire web page.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Improved caching system for the test web server.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing,  • Involved in designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  • Designed and developed Web services using XML and JQuery.  • Participated actively in unit testing, integration testing and GUI.  • Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.    Environment: Python2.7, Django1.1, CSS, AJAX, HTML, XML, SQL, MySQL, HTML, JQuery, JavaScript,  Linux, GIT. Automation Developer Bodhtree - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, Python and Web Services.  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  • Extensively worked on Python scripting and development. CSS is used to style Web pages, XHTML and XML markup.  • Implemented Servlets to handle HTTP requests for on-line requests, credit card payments, registration and bug tracking.  • Using XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using Python Database Connector.  • Designed and developed Web services using XML and JQuery.  • Participated actively in unit testing, integration testing and GUI.  • Responsible for testing, debugging, bug fixing and documentation of the system.  • Developed JUnit test cases and performed integration and system testing.  • Implemented Python components and deployed under the Web Logic server.  • Performed database operations and queries using MySQL.  • Extensively worked on Python scripting and development. CSS is used to style Web pages, XHTML markup.  • Implemented Servlets to handle HTTP requests for on-line requests, credit card payments, registration and bug tracking.  • Worked in development of applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, SQL. Web Developer IMImobile - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2008 to February 2010 software intern)    Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Writing backend programming in Java.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, JavaScript.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts.  • Experience in writing SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Creating database schema for MySQL Database and helped to draw ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Designed low-level and High-level documentation for entire application, this involves in designing.  • Used Git and Jira for code submissions and review process.  • Managed code versioning with Github and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Execute Display Controller regression tests with every firmware build release.  • Reporting Issues using Excel to senior members in the team.  • Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment.    Environments: CSS, AJAX, Java Script, HTML, XHTML, JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, PL/SQL Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communications JNT University Skills HTML (9 years), MYSQL (8 years), DATABASE (8 years), AJAX (8 years), CSS (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies CSS, HTML, java Script, XML, JQuery, Ajax  Database MySQL, Oracle  Programming Language Python 3.5, Python 2.7,C  Operating System Windows, Linux  Frameworks Django, Flask, Bootstrap  Tools & Utilities Perforce,GIT,CVS,SVN, GitHub, Bugzilla, JIRA (A bug tracking tool), Visual studio(PTVS),PyCharm, Wing IDE, SublimeText.