Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Cargill Hopkins, MN • 7+ years of experience in IT industry as Python Developer in System Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation of various Client/Server, Web-based and Business applications.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.8/1.7/1.4/1.3.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django, Pyramid  • Experience in implementing with server side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with Django REST framework.  • Worked on object oriented programming concepts using Python and Django.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev, Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime text.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora).  • Implemented different python libraries BeautifulSoup, numpy, scipy, pytables, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame and urllib2 in various tasks.  • Experience in leveraging queueing architectures with RabbitMQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Good experience in working with Amazon Web Services like EC2, Virtual private clouds (VPCs), Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage), Elastic Load Balancers (ELBs)  • Experience in developing applications using Java, J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, Java Web Services, EJB, Struts, Spring), JDK, JDBC, XML, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SOAP.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Apache Cassandra, Couchbase, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Experienced in Agile, Waterfall Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Experience with Version Control, ideally SVN, CVS, BitBucket and GIT.  • Experienced in Functional Services Testing, GUI Testing, Back-end Testing using SQL, Browser Compatibility Testing, Web Services Testing, System Testing and profound knowledge in Test plans, Test Cases and Test Scripts.  • Experienced in Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Cargill - Hopkins, MN April 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Implemented Business logic in Back Office of Front Arena using Python 2.7 & Front Arena API.  • Front Arena is third party Application used by Cargill Risk Management, a financial division of Cargill that handles Front Office, Middle Office & Back Office.  • Worked closely with Business Users and GL Lead of Accounting as a developer in an Individual Project fulfilling their customized requirements.  • Worked on Giant Volumes of Data Sets i.e up to million day to day transactions of General Ledger for Analysis, Data Manipulation & Journal write back.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created.  • Developed a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Used Python libraries like Numpy, Scipy and Pandas.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames which is a python Data Analysis Library and also using MySQL.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webScrapping.  • Written internal Automated Python scripts for the Back Office that supports EOM processing in the Extension Manager of Front Arena.  • Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP, web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Worked on crucial functionality of implementing couchbase no sql database.  • Used to access the data needed for the website which involves logic to store objects in the couchbase server for faster access  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations includes create, read, update and delete operations.  • Followed PEP-8 Standards & used SONAR for writing quality code.  • Worked on Selenium testing framework.  • Performed Unit testing, Functional Testing, Integration Testing, and Performance Testing.  • Used Atlassian BitBucket for Version control.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Worked on dynamic Agile based environment with Daily Standups, Peer-Peer code reviews & three weeks sprint cycles.  • Documented the design solutions and created stories for client requirements.    Environment:  Python 2.7, Django 1.8, MySQL,Couchbase, PostgreSQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, SJQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, PyDev, SONAR. Sr. Python Developer Celgene Corporation - Summit, NJ June 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Used Celery with RabbitMQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and matPlotLib.  • Usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria andconfigured complex Apache configuration files.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used third party JQuery based plug-ins like JQueryUI, Datatables etc. Heavily used JavaScript for Form Submit and other UI elements during development.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Used REST and SOAP UI for testing web service for server side changes.  • Used Git for Version Control.  Environment:  Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7, Flask, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, Nexus, Maven, Jenkins ,(EC2, S3, RDS),GIT. Full Stack Python Developer Amway Corporation - Ada, MI August 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Writtten backend programming in Python.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair based programming.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery  • Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Implemented simulated top-down SOAP based Web Service to test the business logic for the rating calculation.  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Create and Build Jenkins jobs and store the build artifacts in Nexus by using preconfigured scripts.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • For the large data management used TFS and delivered reliable product.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and beautiful soup (b4) to perform unit testing.  • Worked on translation of web pages to different languages as per client requirements.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service etc.  • Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on web pages using the data from MongoDB.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Worked on rebranding the existing web pages to clients according to the type of deployment.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Documented the design solutions and created stories for client requirements.    Environment:  Python 2.7, Django 1.7, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet, Nexus,Maven,MS SQL Server, Nginix server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Elastic search, T-SQL, Beautiful soup, TFS, nose, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, and MAC OSX. Python /Django Developer Veracode - Burlington, MA July 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Implemented Business logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django framework for database layer development.  • Developed GUI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JQuery.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several SQL queries to extract data from database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for automation of testing jobs.  • Deployment and Build on various environments including Linux and UNIX.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP Web servers in RedHat Linux.  • Tools like LoadRunner, SoapUI, VUGEN to perform automation and manual testing of application.  • Used web services for testing and integration.  • Implemented and used custom built query script to store, index and read large sets of Object data (like MongoDb)  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.    Environment:  Python 2.7, Django, C++, JSON, XML, LoadRunner, VUGEN, SoapUI, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, Restful API, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, MySQL, ODBC, GIT, Tomcat, MongoDb, Apache HTTP Web servers, RedHat Linux and Unix. Python Developer First Banks Inc - St. Louis, MO August 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python scripts to read from Excel files, generate XML configuration files and also for generating IP access frequency lists in different data logs.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework.  • Generated Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login and signup of online users.  • Learned technical skills that are required for the system like CherryPy, Django, Flask, Pandas, JIRA, and Heroku etc.  • Collaborated with a team of instructors and programmers to develop the curriculum and guidelines for workshops to teach the logic of programming.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Upgraded Python 2.5 to Python 2.7 on a RHEL server. This upgrade was necessary because in lined models with UTF-8 characters were causing unexpected errors.  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful Web Service from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS.  • Expertise in developing web-based LAMD stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Designed and Implemented a Random Unique Test selector Package on processing large volume of data using Python and Django ORM.  • Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process from scratch by extending Django user model.  • Write a wrapper program in Python to automate the entire process like running different executables of FORTAN and call the Java swing program.  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization.  • Learned how to create specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Developed and maintained parsing modules, which read CSV, XML and JSON data from files and other REST services, processed the data.    Environment:  Python 2.7, Django 1.4, RabbitMQ, FORTAN, XML, WSDL, CherryPy, Flask, Django, Pandas, MySQL, CSS, HTML, Jenkins, Google App Engine. Python Developer IHC GROUP - Phoenix, AZ October 2011 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on developing internal testing tools written in Python.  • Performed client side validations using JavaScript and server side validations using various other frameworks like Django.  • Designed and developed the UI using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations includes create, read, update and delete operations.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Worked with UNIX like OS on regular basis.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.    Environment:  Python 2.7, Django, HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, SQL, SOAP, pyyaml, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Unix, Shell Scripting, Git, GitHub, Amazon EC2, Heroku. Java / Python Developer Strateology - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design and development of UI screens for Add and Update Lending Application using Struts frame work.  • Involved in developing the business components using JAVA and JDBC.  • Design and development of UI screens using JSP.  • Developed a new product for the unsecured loans featuring Term Business and personal loans.  • Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process from scratch by extending Django user model.  • Used Restful web service calls for the validation.  • Worked with AJAX framework to get the asynchronous response for the user request and used JavaScript for the validation.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented schema and data migration for the postgres database using South migration tool.  • Developed user-friendly modals for the form submissions using JQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Experience in building the war with help the putty and deployed into cloud environment using the cloud controller and experience in solving the cloud issue.  • Worked closely with Client managers/Business Analysts of the bank to drive technical solutions, design and provide development estimates for schedule and effort.  • Worked very closely with product owners, project managers and vendors to satisfy all the business needs.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Used Django framework for database application development.  • Dynamic, hard-working, ability to work in-groups as well as independently with initiative to learn new technologies/tool quickly and emphasis on delivering quality services.  • Have strong ability to build productive relationships with peers, management, and clients using strong communication, interpersonal, organizational, and planning skills.    Environment:  Java, Python, Django, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Oracle, Eclipse, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics & Communication Engineering Andhra University Skills CSS (7 years), Django (7 years), HTML (7 years), MySQL (7 years), Python (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Primary Languages Python, Java, C, C++  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2,CSV  Frameworks Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, Flask, PyJamas, Pyramid, Hibernate    Operating Systems Windows Vista/XP/7/8/10, Linux, Unix, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, MySQL, Sqlite3,Cassandra,Couchbase, Redis and Mongo DB  IDE's PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime Text, MS Visual Studio, PyDev, RIDE  Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss, WebLogic, XAMPP  Deployment tools MS Azure, Heroku, Jenkins, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, REST, SOAP  J2EE JDBC, JNDI, JSP and servlets  Testing Tools Bugzilla, Jasmine, Pyunit, JIRA and Junit, zope, pytest, nose, Robot