Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association Durham, NC Around 6 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django. Proven ability to design, develop and deliver top-quality, working software on Python, Django.    CORE QUALIFICATTIONS    • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Expert in software development with Python and IDEs - Sublime text, PyCharm, Eclipse, PyDev.  • Built Web application using Python, Django, Flask, MySQL, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Used Apache to deploy production site.  • Strong experience using Web Services and API's in python.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as Django, Spring MVC.  • Well versed with Version control systems such as Git, SVN, CVS, and Source Tree.  • Experience in Application Development and Object Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD).  • Implemented dashboard using Django, Bootstrap, jQuery, AJAX tools.  • Started developing with Django 1.4 and currently developing with Django 1.9.  • Throughout understanding of providing specifications using Agile Software methodology for modeling systems and business processes.  • Knowledge of Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Experience in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views, Templates using CSS for whole site following Django MVC architecture.  • Experience in AWS S3 using python scripting.  • Experienced with ORM programming technique converting data between incompatible type systems in OOP languages.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra and Familiar with REST and AWS (Amazon Web services).  • Deep understanding of HTTP methods, RESTful architecture.  • Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and PyLint.  • Supported Unit and Integration testing.  • I am extremely productive working on my own, and even more as part of team. Work Experience Python Developer Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association - Durham, NC June 2015 to Present Blue Cross Blue Shield Association is a national federation of 36 independent, community-based and locally operated Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies that collectively provide healthcare coverage for more than 106 million members - one-in-three Americans.  Description: Working on a project to develop an application that manages Health Insurance Plans for each Customers and will display future Health Insurance needs by developing Insurance Estimator tool, which can be used by both company agents and their clients.    RESPONSBLITIES  • Participating in requirement gathering and analysis period of the project in recording the business requirements by leading workshops/gatherings with different business clients. Utilized Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Application developed with Python, Django and MySQL using JIRA (Agile) methodology.  • Helped in creating the Health insurance needs estimator to estimate the need of the insurance for an individual.  • Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to MySQL database with complete data integrity.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and de-normalization in MySQL.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Also, involved in validating and processing of files.  • Used URLLIB2 to handle RESTful web services for the application.  • For transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers, used jQuery and AJAX.  • Used front end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Bootstrap to design and develop the UI.  • Implemented RWD (Responsive Web Design) using Media Queries and SASS as CSS pre-processor directive.  • Used pyChecker tool to fix bugs.  • Used several python libraries like matPlotLib, pyTest, Selenium.  • Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design phase and the development phase.  • Collaborate with key stakeholders and project managers to design, develop, integrate, test, document and implement the system.  • Tracking defects and resolving bugs using JIRA.  • Ensured quality by versioning with GIT.    Environment  Python 2.7, Django 1.9, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, REST, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, pyChecker, URLLIBS, matPlotLib, pyTest, Selenium, urllib2, Sublime, JIRA, GIT. Developer AppleOne - Scottsdale, AZ November 2013 to May 2015 AppleOne is part of the ACT•1 family of companies. AppleOne has grown to become the single largest privately-owned employment service in North America. Offering full-service career assistance and numerous special benefits, AppleOne can help you with everything from temporary projects to full-time (permanent placement) positions.    Descriptions: Worked on project to optimize the Supply Chain Management System. The application provides workforce insight to every department. Ensure product and supply chain readiness which in turn processes speed with a quick view of pending and released changes and items affected. It provides organizational clarity on product data and processes to increase productivity. Secure access to product data with configurable roles and privileges.    RESPONSBLITIES  • Worked on high level design and detail design. Developed GUI using Python, PostgreSQL, HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Built application logic using Python, Django MVC architecture and PostgreSQL.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Processed, validated, parsed data from XML file.  • Used Restful web services for integration with many monitoring devices.  • Developed REST/HTTP APIs for exposing geospatial applications.  • Designed and developed Forms, Models, Views, Templates and mapped URLs using Django guidelines.  • Implemented a selectable template structure in Django making it possible to change the HTML layout and design based on site URL and /or domain.  • Contributed to development of security policies and processes.  • Implemented Virtual Environment to provide a wrapping layer to the application.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django:  • Improved page load time by 30%.  • Implemented RESTful API which returns data from PostgreSQL in JSON format.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base by maintaining PEP-8 code standards and fix the bugs.  • Versatile with Version control systems including Git and SVN.  • Installed/configured/maintained Apache servers on all machines (production server and development servers).  • Installed/configured/maintained PostgreSQL database and MongoDB database.  • Performed Unit/System testing using pyTEST.  • Conducted numerous enhancements for the system and bug-fixing tasks (C/C++, SQL scripts, UNIX Shell).  • Created a JSON update mechanism for pushing data model updates to client.  • Monitored database changes, proposed modification for subsystem-related tables, fields or indexes and developed scripts (SQL, SQL scripts, UNIX shell scripts)  • Used SVN for version control.    Environment  REST, CSS, VMware, Python, Django, AJAX, HTML, HTTP, JSON, JUnit, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, pyTEST, UNIX Shell scripting, Sublime, Web Services, XHTML, Oracle, SVN. Python Developer CashCall - Los Angeles, CA January 2013 to October 2013 CashCall is driven to remain at the forefront of innovative technology that streamlines loan operations. CashCall's personal loans division offers unsecured loans to qualified borrowers who typically use the loans for one-time purchases and debt consolidation. These loans are processed entirely over the internet, phone, and fax. Funds are wired into the borrower's checking account in as little as 4 hours. When customers make their payments on time, CashCall's personal loans division has the potential to help them rebuild their credit score as well.  Descriptions: Worked on project to unlock the value of ecosystem with social collaboration capabilities. The application allows to discover, follow and connect to enable knowledge sharing across the enterprise. It also allows advanced innovative thinking with real time discussions.    RESPONSBLITIES  • Develop and maintain standard operating procedures to reflect day-to-day security operations.  • Created script in Python for calling REST APIs.  • REST API development via Django REST Framework.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Overrode Django Rest Framework internals to allow for more dynamic routing.  • Actively hunting for and dissecting previously unidentified threats in the environment.  • Collaborate full stack project on Waterfall methodology.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy. Used Git to collaborate with other developers.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.    Environment  AJAX, REST, HTTP, JSON, Linux Shell scripting, MySQL, Sublime, XHTML, PostgreSQL, Web Services, Java-Script. Software Developer SYNOVERGE - Gujarat, IN September 2011 to December 2012 Descriptions: The scope of the project was to create and maintain an internal Point of Sale (POS) system which streamlines and authenticate payment workflow solutions to securely protect internal transactions and in turn authorize with the highest level of security available while keeping the payment platform simple and easy to use.    RESPONSBILITIES  • Involved in Agile Scrum methodology, Agile meeting, Sprint and Release Planning meetings.  • Push daily commits and branches to product repositories using Source Tree and used Jira as a project related tracking tool.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked on Core Java coding with strong understanding of Java, Spring, Hibernate, Collections, data structure and Event/Exception handling.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Implemented Services using Core Java. Developed and deployed UI layer logics of sites using JSP.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing Angular JS controller. Also, used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Worked on Web Services using Spring REST. Worked both on Service and Client Side  • Developed modules in the application using Java/J2EE Analyzed the Design of the modules.    Environment  Java/J2EE, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Web API'S, JavaScript, JSON, SQL Server, REST, Spring, Hibernate. Skills AJAX. (5 years), CSS (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), JSON (5 years), REST (5 years) Additional Information Skills    Programming/Scripting Languages Python, Java, UNIX / Linux Shell Scripting (Bash), C, C++, JavaScript, SQL.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, Angular.js, JSON, XML, JSP, Servlet, Bootstrap, REST, AWS.  Framework Django, Flask, Spring MVC, Hibernate.  Database Technologies MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQLite, MongoDB, Cassandra.  Simulators/IDE/Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, JIRA, PyDev, Maven, Junit, pyLint, pyChecker.  Version Control GIT, SVN, Source Tree, CVS.    Operating Systems Microsoft Windows, OS X, Ubuntu Linux, Debian Linux, Windows Server