Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Charles Schwab Edison, NJ • 8 years of experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE, Django, flask projects.  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Developed Java/J2ee applications using spring, XML, Android, XSLT, and Basic C# applications including using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache, Tomcat and WebSphere using mod_ python, mod_wsgi environment.  • Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall.  • Used Git / GitHub to create repository and Putty to configure SSH server.  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts such as procedure, function, trigger etc.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Studio, IDLE.  • Experience on Ruby Reg-Ex for pattern and Text matching.  • Good command on full life cycle application development.  • Designed and developed video and blogging website on PHP using WordPress on wamp server using MySQL database.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Charles Schwab - Austin, TX August 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Gathered all requirement for developing and analysing requirement of projects in giving time.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into PostgreSQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used and customised apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Used mod_ python for deployment.  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python.    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQT, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Cassandra, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, mod_ python. Python developer Bank of America - Dallas, TX September 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.  • Developed web page using Django 1.8 framework on python.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Wrote programs for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  • Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  • Used Perl programming for document handling for the project.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing on Jenkin using local server and debugging.  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, and RESTful.  • Mod_wsgi environment to host the source code for deployment.    Environment: Python 2.7, Windows, MySQL, flask and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, MySQL DB, Jenkin, Perl Python Developer Fiserv - Dallas, TX October 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, Nodes JS, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  • Used Django APIs for database access  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files using underscore JS.  • Parsed XML file using Python to extract data from database  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs  • Java implementation on given project  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  • Used Flex for validation of request response and schema  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic-2014, using SQL developer tools    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server, PHP, Lamp, underscore JS. SQL developer tool, Flex., Apache Cassandra. Junior Developer Pathway Informatics - Chicago, IL May 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask  • Designed the database schema for the content management system Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using PHP, HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services  • Worked on Mobile app of the website using Restful API and google API using on android application  • Used Jira and unit testing for checking project before production.    Environment: C++, XML, Java, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows, flask, Python, Android Studio, Restful API Junior Developer Cenvien Technologies - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2008 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  • Created UI and Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Worked on Java based connectivity of client requirement on JDBC connection  • Used C++ concept to build some features of the website  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.    Environment: Python, Java, JDBC, servlets, Restful/SOAP web services, JSon Script, XML, SQLite, C++ Skills DATABASE (8 years), CSS (7 years), HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), UI (7 years) Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECHNICAL SKILLS    Platforms Windows, Unix/Linux  Programming Skills Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, Design Patterns, XML, XSLT, JDBC, ASP.net, c++  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate.  Web Technologies HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, J-Query and UI, Angular, PHP, DJANGO, Flask  Database Oracle, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/ Plsql  Servers Web sphere, Apache, Tomcat  Repository Tools Perforce  Other Skills Enterprise Product Catalog, Clarify CRM Framework.  Other Tools Used Eclipse, ANT Build, SQL Developer, Visual Studio, Putty,