Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer NJ • 8 years of experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE, Django, flask projects  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, BootStrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  • Developed Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML, Android, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications including using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache, Tomcat and WebSphere.  • Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Studio, IDLE.  • Experience on Ruby Reg-Ex for pattern and Text matching.  • Good command on full life cycle application development.  • Designed and developed video and blogging website on PHP using WordPress on wamp server using MySQL database  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings Work Experience Python Developer January 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Gathered all requirement for developing and analysing requirement of projects in giving time.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used and customised apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python and portlet    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQT, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, Django Tastypie Python developer Solar Turbines - San Diego, CA June 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.  • Developed web page using Django 1.9 framework on python  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask  • Designed the database schema for the content management system  • Wrote programs for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  • Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database as well NOSQL on Cassandra  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing on Jenkin using local server and debugging.  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, and RESTful.  Environment: Python 2.7, Windows, MySQL, flask and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, MySQL DB, Jenkin Python Developer Fox Interactive - Los Angeles, CA June 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, NodeJS, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  • Used Django APIs for database access  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files using underscore JS.  • Parsed XML file using Python to extract data from database  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs  • Java implementation on given project  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic-2014, using SQL developer tools    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server, PHP, Lamp, underscore JS. SQL developer tool Developer Parsippany, NJ May 2009 to March 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask  • Designed the database schema for the content management system Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using PHP, HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services  • Worked on Mobile app of the website using Restful API and google API using on android application  • Used Jira and unit testing for checking project before production.    Environment: C++, XML, Java, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows, flask, Python, Android Studio, Restful API Developer Cenvien Technologies - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2008 to February 2009 Responsibilities:  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  • Created UI and Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Worked on Java based connectivity of client requirement on JDBC connection  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.    Environment: Python, Java, JDBC, servlets, Restful/SOAP web services, JSon Script, XML, SQLite. Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECHNICAL SKILLS    Platforms Windows, Unix/Linux  Programming Skills Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, Design Patterns, XML, XSLT, JDBC, ASP.net  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate.  Web Technologies HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, J-Query and UI, Angular, PHP, DJANGO, Flask  Database Oracle, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/ Plsql  Servers Web sphere, Apache, Tomcat  Repository Tools Perforce  Other Skills Enterprise Product Catalog, Clarify CRM Framework.  Other Tools Used Eclipse, ANT Build, SQL Developer, Visual Studio, Putty,