Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CGIJanuary Edison, NJ • 8 years of experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE, Django, flask projects  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  • Developed Java/J2ee applications usingHibernate, XML, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC architecture using Spring MVC and SOAP web service and SOAPUI  • Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Studio, IDLE.  • Experience on Ruby Reg-Ex for pattern and Text matching.  • Highly dedicated, quick starter, solution driven pattern programmer with excellent at solving complex problems under strict deadlines.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Created video publishing toolkit using WordPress (PHP/MySQL) and JavaScript to allow easy uploading of video by non-technical content mangers.  • Continuously manages multiple deadlines and competing priorities through proactively planning and managing tasks and resources.  • Detailed oriented and resourceful in the completion of projects with an ability to multitask and meet strict deadlines.  • Willingness to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges. Work Experience Python Developer CGIJanuary 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQT, PyQuery, AWS, PHP, C++, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, XML, JavaScript, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, Flask with restful services and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy Python developer Solar Turbines - San Diego, CA June 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask  • Designed the database schema for the content management system  • Wrote programs for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  • Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, REST, SOAP.  Environment: Python 2.7, Windows, MySQL, flask and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, MysqlDB Python Developer Fox Interactive - Los Angeles, CA June 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Developer Parsippany, NJ May 2009 to March 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask  • Designed the database schema for the content management system Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and WebServices    Environment: C++, XML, Java, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows, flask, Python. Developer Cenvien Technologies - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2008 to February 2009 Responsibilities:  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  • Created UI and Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Used JavaScript and UI for parsing XML and XSLT  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and WebServices.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.    Environment: Python, Java, JDBC, servlets, Restful/SOAP web services, JSon Script, XML, SQLite. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Platforms Windows, Unix/Linux  Programming Skills Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, Design Patterns, XML, XSLT, JDBC, ASP.net  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate.  Web Technologies HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, J-Query and UI, Angular, PHP, DJANGO, Flask  Database Oracle, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/Plsql  Servers Web sphere, Apache Tomcat  Repository Tools Perforce  Other Skills Enterprise Product Catalog, Clarify CRM Framework.  Other Tools Used Eclipse, ANT Build, SQL Developer, Visual Studio, Putty,