Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Optum Bayonne, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Optum - Eden Prairie, MN March 2017 to Present Technology: Python, OS X, Selenium, Open Stack, JIRA, Hiptest, HTML, Django, CSS, Java Script, Bootstrap, Behave, PageObjects, Steps, Browserstack, GIT, Rabbit MQ, MongoDB, Spark, REST APIs, Jenkins, Web Services, Eclipse.    Accomplished:  ? Django Framework used in developing web applications to implement the MVC architecture.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Parsed various file formats including XML and JSON and loaded into Oracle database with Python, XML and JSON modules.  ? Used Git and Jira for code submissions and review process.  ? Participated in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  ? Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  ? Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  ? Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands.  ? Used Regular Expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and store them in database on a chronological basis.  ? Performed in various phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  ? Developed and Consumed SOAP based Web Services using SOAP based Web Services.  ? Spring was used for dependency injection.  ? Responsible for updating database tables and designing SQL queries using PL/SQL.  ? Developed front end using Struts tag libraries, JSTL, JSP, HTML, and Java Script.  ? Used SQL and MongoDB to rectify the troubleshot errors.  ? Developed numerous new features and enhancements for our web application using Python/Django, HTML/CSS/JS as well as automating our development environment using ansible.  ? Wrote scripts to automate python packaging and used PyGit to interact with the Gitlab.  ? Used Python text parsing modules to cleanse and load data files from partners into the application/database. Data came in various formats including XML and JSON.  ? Worked on statistical analysis by processing of collected data and Data Visualization using Python Pandas, Matplotlib, Scipy and Numpy packages.  ? Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL and integrations with 3rd party email(slack), messaging, storage services and used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Used AJAX and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries.  ? Experience with Core java with understanding and working knowledge.  ? Involved in performing the Linear Regression using Scala API and Spark.  ? Maintaining the scripts using the SVN version Control.  ? Maintaining customer database using MS EXCEL.Services using Axis, XML technologies.  ? Developed enterprise web services using J2EE, SOA Suite, Spring, Hibernate, iBATIS, and JMS.  ? Developed weekly, monthly nightly job process through UNIX shellscripting.    Previous Project Status: Python Developer Project Status Present Python Full Stack Developer State of New Mexico February 2016 to January 2017 Technology: Python 2.6, numPY, Scipy, Django, Pandas, TCP/IP, UDP, SVN, PHP, JQuery, MySQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, XML, JASPER, T-SQL, GitHub, Ansible, Oracle, Workflow, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache Cassandra, HTML, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL Server, matPlotLib, Redis, Orient DB.    Accomplished:  ? Analyzed and understood the business requirements.  ? Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management and also Used several Python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  ? Worked on requirement gathering and High level design.  ? Frequent use of network protocols in Python-- TCP/IP, UDP etc.  ? Used PHP as an HTML embedded scripting language, in front end web development.  ? Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  ? Architected workflow solutions including pre-commit scripts, pre-receive hooks, and custom GitHubAPI scripts.  ? Used WSDL and the Oracle SOA Suite toolset to design and generate WS-I compliant web services that exposed the aforementioned interfaces.  ? Knowledge of clinical workflow and a basic understanding of clinical terminology.  ? Designed, Installed and Implemented Ansible configuration management system.  ? Managed and trained peers on the installation of Oracle 10gAS and the Oracle SOA suite across various environments throughout the development cycle.  ? Involved in the process of data acquisition, data pre-processing and data exploration of telecommunication project in scala.  ? Developed enterprise data integrations using AIA, SOA Suite, Web Services, and OSB.  ? Performed routine tasks, such as updating statuses and attending team meetings, testing with automation development, learned the aspects of Kafka, TIBCO, and automate reports using SQL Database.  ? Modeled device provisioning parameters using YANG and added Tail-F based provisioning support.  ? Conceived and designed custom POCs using Kafka 0.10 and the Twitter Stream in standalone mode.  ? coordinated Kafka operations and monitoring (via JMX) with dev ops personnel; formulated balancing leadership strategies.  ? Developed tools for ArcGIS desktop & web to automate mapping tasks using Python scripting & ESRI Model Builder  ? Create maps for various utilizing Esri ArcGIS Suite. Utilizes geoprocessing, model builder, and spatial analysis tools.  ? Hands on experience onLed design of the next generation systems architecture based on software-as-a-service applications.  ? responsible for 100% availability in our clustered SaaS environment.  ? Automate complex GIS processes with ESRI Model Builder.  ? Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  ? Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  ? Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  ? Experience with NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra, MongoDB and Orient DB.  ? Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, AJAX, CSS and JQuery in ongoing projects.  ? Converted Visual Basic Application to Python and MySQL.  ? Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9g, 10g, 11g.  ? Defined capabilities and limitations of the latex process and continually looked for opportunities for improvement  ? Responsible for direct supervision and development of latex line personnel, incorporate visionary sustainability practices/initiatives  ? Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  ? Migrating Oracle database to Postgres using AWS DMS.  ? Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end and handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Used JIRA (Agile) for debugging the project  ? Used SQL and MongoDB (NoSQL) to identify and troubleshot campaign errors.  ? Performed code review to achieve quality code.  ? Experienced with deploying the application image on Docker.  ? Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms. Python Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Boston, MA August 2014 to December 2015 Technology: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, SOA, Struts, EJB, JMS, JDBC, AWS, BEA Web Logic Server, Oracle, Eclipse, XML, Log4j, UML, Ant, JUnit, HTML, JavaScript, Unix, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, Axis, Oracle, WebLogic etc.    Accomplished:  ? Understood requirements from the client.  ? Analyze, design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Involved in entire SDLC process.  ? Participating in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users. Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process  ? Designed the User Interface using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX for the website.  ? Prepared SOA readiness assessment on the current client infrastructure  ? Frontend and Backend modules were created using Python on Django framework.  ? Developed Python code for instantiating multi-threaded application and running with other applications.  ? Designed and developed Database management using MYSQL.  ? Developed Python modules to extract data from MYSQL database.  ? Excellent configuration management using Ansible, Aws CloudFormation, and Terraform.  ? Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Implementing and setting up AWS security groups for AWS Instances on AWS Environment.  ? Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances.  ? Used AWS CloudFront (content delivery network) to deliver content from AWS edge locations drastically improving user experience and latency.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  ? Contributed to the development of the Reference Architecture as a guideline for future SOA projects  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting issues.  ? Implemented Web Services using SOAP for sending and receiving data from external interface in XML format.  ? Analysed impacts for small changes  ? Performed code review to achieve quality code.  ? Involved in test-cases using Junit, debugging Implementation and deployment activities.  ? Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  ? Performed optimization of test server by implementing multiprocessing for the caching system, improved user experience. Python Developer Kindred Healthcare, Inc - Louisville, KY January 2013 to June 2014 Technology: Python 2.7/3, Django, SQL, PHP, LAMP (MySQL, Linux), Angular.js, C, Linux, Apache, ESXi Hypervisor, OpenStack, Shell Scripting, Panda, Oracle, HTML, MS SQL server 2005.    Accomplished:  ? Responsible for development of system-level cluster management and monitoring tools.  ? Linux system software development on Linux, using Python, C and lots of other Linuxtools.  ? Python as a system-software development language, not just for small scripts.  ? Large Python code bases using multiple modules and packages.  ? Frequent use of network protocols in Python-- TCP/IP, UDP -- at the application level. Sockets, REST, etc.  ? Development of Linux clustering environment for Amazon EC2 cloud, including creation of custom CentOS-based AMIs and Python environment for cluster management.  ? Management of high-performance, I/O-intensive Linux clusters.  ? Development of cluster management software in Python.  ? Designed and developed MySQL Stored Procedures and Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions  ? Development of Ganglia clusters monitoring plugins in C and Python.  ? Extensive use of Virtualmachine technologies, particularly VMware Workstation and ESXiHypervisor. Creation, cloning and configuration of virtual machines; clustered VMs using VMware Teams; command-line interaction with virtual machine engines, particularly with the ESXi hypervisor.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Management of virtual and native Linux installations on multi-core Sun server and desktop hardware.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Used D3.js library for visualizations like transitions, line charts and bar graphs.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Installed, configured, and maintained a continuous integration (build) server.  ? Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end and handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created.  ? Development of monitoring and instrumentation tools for our core Java systems, using JVMTI, JDI and related technologies, including development of native agents in C.  ? Connection of C libraries to Java using the JNI. Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Used SQL and Mongo DB (NoSQL) to identify and troubleshot campaign errors.  ? Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  ? Developed a Coverity mail script that extracts code defects data per component for a daily report to drive reducing defects in the codebase.  ? Developed a web tool that monitors and drives the automated continuous integration system allowing release managers to track changes Jr. Python Developer Magma Fincorp Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2011 to December 2012 Technology: Java, Python 2.6, Django, CVS, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MYSQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, UNIX Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux, WebLogic Application Server.    Accomplished:  ? Technical experience with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD.  ? Used Rational Rose Enterprise to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams, Data Modeling.  ? Developed application logic using Python and JavaScript.  ? Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  ? Implemented front end for third party Web service using JQuery, Html, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  ? Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation with python.  ? Developed the frontend for interaction by using the Django framework.  ? Worked with version controlling system CVS and SVN.  ? Created Data layer in MYSQL.  ? Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  ? Supported Java application for Media portal management.  ? Debugging and testing of the applications & fine tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  ? Implemented DAO database access objects.  ? Used SOAP UI to test the external service. Jr. Python Developer CMC - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to August 2011 Technology: Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux, UNIX.    Accomplished:  ? Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  ? Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  ? Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  ? Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  ? With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  ? Automated data extraction process from legacy system and used 'Nose' Testing framework with Assertion module to testing many automated process.  ? Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  ? Developed weekly, monthly nightly job process through UNIX shell scripting.  ? Thoroughly used Unit Test Python library for testing many python programs and block of codes.  ? Also have rich experience on testing REST FullAPI like Facebook and Twitter.  ? Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  ? Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's.  ? Automation of testing using Python. Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), JAVA (5 years), ORACLE (5 years), CSS (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages Python, Java, C/C++, SQL and PL/SQL.  Databases Oracle (9i,10g, 11g), My SQL, Django, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.  IDE's/ Development Tools Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, and Sublime Text.    Operating Systems Windows, Linux Ubuntu, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS.  Testing Tools Selenium, JIRA, Hiptest.  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2.  Frameworks Django, Pyjamas, CSS Boot, Flask, Behave  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum.