Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Python Dallas, TX • Around 7+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with the uses of NoSQL platform, such as MongoDB.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and Python) Architecture.  • Familiar knowledge on Selenium Test Framework to automate the Web applications testing process.  • Ability to rapidly learn new concepts and methodologies.  • Proven ability to work in team environment as well as independently.  • Effective Communicator: Work well with management staff and personnel at all levels. Equally comfortable dealing with customers, vendors, and the general public.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with the uses of NoSQL platform, such as MongoDB.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and Python) Architecture.  • Familiar knowledge on Selenium Test Framework to automate the Web applications testing process.  • Ability to rapidly learn new concepts and methodologies.  • Proven ability to work in team environment as well as independently.  • Effective Communicator: Work well with management staff and personnel at all levels. Equally comfortable dealing with customers, vendors, and the general public. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer Python - San Antonio, TX April 2014 to Present Enrollment & Billing - Building pre-enrollment application which can receive member data from external systems, enroll those members and send various reports and data to internal and external systems.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the Business Requirement Documents and created the technical specification documents.  • Implemented business logic in Python to prevent, detect and claim the duplicate member entries.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system.  • Created Map Reduce programs in Python to reconcile the existing member history and new files.  • Developed dynamic web pages to view the reports generated using Django Framework and also worked in NoSQL database MongoDB.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Used Jenkins to deploy your Django application and run unit tests.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  Environment: Python, MySQL, JSON, REST, HTML, CSS, XML, Django framework, MongoDB, Windows. Python Developer BCBS - Durham, NC July 2013 to March 2014 Blue Cross Blue Shield is a healthcare insurance provider which has nearly three million members who have access to the high-quality, affordable health care they expect and deserve.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Involved in UI refactoring that involves extensive use of Ajax  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Good exposure in building CMS using tool Saas.  • Have good exposure in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, Python STL, Django, UI and web development.  • Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the code redundancy to the optimal level  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python 2.7, Java, Bash script, Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • Involved in the development ORM Queries.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Exported Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium RC environment.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.JS.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Django 1.5, HTML5/CSS, CSS Bootstrap, Pyramid, MySQL, MS SQL, T-SQL, Jasper Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git Python Developer Examity - Natick, MA August 2012 to June 2013 Examity offers live online proctoring for academic institutions & universities by using a webcam to monitor students taking exams online to prevent cheating.    Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with Rabbit MQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and Soap UI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, Dev Centre, Data stax Ops center.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, iter tools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Trained extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum stand ups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with clients.  Environment: Python, Django, Cassandra, RabbitMQ, Vugen, Soap UI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, Agile. Python Developer FM Global - Johnston, RI February 2011 to July 2012 This is a mutual insurance company, with offices worldwide, that specializes in loss prevention services primarily to large corporations throughout the world in the Highly Protected Risk (HPR) property insurance market sector.  Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used PHP as an HTML embedded scripting language, in front end web development.  • I have used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, PHP, AJAX, Cassandra, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, Git, GitHub, JAVA Java Developer Devanshi Electronics - IN June 2009 to January 2011 • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Reviewed the functional, design, source code and test specifications  • Involved in developing the complete front end development using Java Script and CSS  • Author for Functional, Design and Test Specifications  • Implemented Backend, Configuration DAO, XML generation modules of DIS  • Analyzed, designed and developed the component  • Used JDBC for database access  • Used Data Transfer Object (DTO) design patterns  • Unit testing and rigorous integration testing of the whole application  • Written and executed the Test Scripts using JUNIT  • Actively involved in system testing  • Developed XML parsing tool for regression testing  • Prepared the Installation, Customer guide and Configuration document which were delivered to the customer along with the product  Environment: Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JDK 1.5.1, JDBC, Oracle10g, XML, XSL, Solaris and UML Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming /Scripts Languages Python, SQL, PostgreSQL, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Node.js  Database MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB, SQLite, PostgreSQL  Framework Django, AngularJS  Tools  MS-Visio, Visual Studio, Sublime, PyCharm, Eclipse, Notepad++, GitHub, JIRA, ClearQuest, RTC, MS Project, Excel, SharePoint, MS Access.    Methodologies SDLC / Agile / Scrum