Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Exxon Mobil Dallas, TX Sr. Python Developer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Exxon Mobil - Irving, TX December 2016 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Implement MQ to transport any type of data as messages, enabling businesses to build flexible, reusable architectures such as service-oriented architecture (SOA) environments.  ? Worked on database commonly used for running online transaction processing (OLTP), data warehousing (DW) and mixed (OLTP & DW) database workloads.  ? Developed instruments utilizing Python, Shell and XML to mechanize a portion of the humble assignments.  ? Interfacing with managers, specialists, frameworks directors and generation to guarantee creation due dates are met.  ? Effectively followed Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Designed and created information administration framework utilizing MySQL.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views using Python, so as to manufacture an intuitive electronic arrangement.  ? Used ReactJS framework to develop the SPA.  ? Extensively used ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Contributed to the refinement and ramp-up of the DDA technology and (Big) Data analytics stack.  ? Worked on a range of big data Analytics & cloud architectures, including Business use cases.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for enhanced productivity of capacity and quick access.  ? Added bolster for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to have static/media records and the database into Amazon Cloud. Associated with front end and used Bootstrap and Angular.js for page outline.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Used ReactJS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Created Data tables using PyQt to show client and arrangement data and include, erase, refresh client records.  ? Design and develop the webpages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS and ReactJS.  ? Built multifunction readmission reports using Python Pandas and Django frame work  ? Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON information protests amongst frontend and controllers.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views using Python, to assemble an intelligent online arrangement.  ? Work son React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  ? Used Python based GUI segments for the front-end usefulness, for example, choice criteria, created test outfit to empower exhaustive testing using Python.  ? Used React autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for enhanced proficiency of capacity and quick access.  ? Added bolster for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to have static/media records and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Involved in frontend developed and used Bootstrap for page outline.  Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX Python Developer ILLUMINA - San Diego, CA March 2015 to November 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Developed the project in Linux environment.  ? Provide coordinate data for pipeline tie-in locations at facilities  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  ? Working on DevOps platform and have gained experience in specialized areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation  ? Involved in DevOps tools such as Jenkins, Nexus, Chef and Ansible for build and deploy applications  ? Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  ? Used python library BeautifulSoup for Web scraping to extract data for building graphs  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  ? Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on webpages using the data from MongoDB.  ? Used TFS for the large data management and delivered reliable end-product.  ? Worked on indexing and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  ? Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization and support for customer service etc.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Java Script, jQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Linux, Sub Version, BeautifulSoup, NumPy, AJAX Python Developer Thales Avionics - Piscataway, NJ January 2014 to February 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed front-end and back-end of the application using python 3 on Django web framework.  ? Automated data movements using python scripts, involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  ? Used several python libraries like NumPy, Matplotlib and Pandas.  ? Followed Agile methodologies and performed Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, WebStorm, IntelliJ and Visual Studio.  ? Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  ? Called the RESTFUL Webservices to get the JSON object (response) and manipulated the JSON object to display the response in the webpage.  ? Worked in MySQL database on queries and writing stored procedures for normalization and renormalization.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Managed Ubuntu Linux and windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 using open-source chef server.  ? Migrated the applications from internal data center to AWS.  ? Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Delivering deliverables on time by working on agile and waterfall methodologies.  ? Used Django for framework for accessing various consumer data from various sources.  Environment: Python-2.7, MySQL, Python Scripts, Oracle, JavaScript, MongoDB, AWS EC2, Django, NumPy, GitHub Software Developer Genfare - Elk Grove Village, IL September 2012 to December 2013 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Architected and implemented scalable, high-performance Scala services on the AWS platform.  ? Involved in development of Front-end Using Angular2.0, JavaScript, HTML5 and Back-end using Enterprise Java Beans.  ? Wrote modular, secure, and well-tested front-end code in JS, HTML, and CSS using latest web application frameworks  ? Analyze, develop, test, code, implement and maintain software and computer systems to meet business and project requirements  ? Responsible for creating the JavaScript code, for different modules.  ? Extensively involved in backend API testing using PostMan.  ? Documented software defects using bug tracking tool JIRA  ? Automated front-end web pages using Selenium, Robot Framework.  ? Used HP-ALM for writing and tracking test cases.  ? Refactored a Templating application designed to construct data input sub-modules in HTML.  ? Developed Front-End web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap 4.  ? Worked on browsers compatibility issues.  ? Supported for the defects on time-based priority in DEV/QA/ UAT and PROD environments.  ? Wrote service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS.  Environment: Angular 2.0, Bootstrap3, SQL, PL-SQL, Robot Framework, Selenium, POST-MAN, JIRA, SOAP UI, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap4 Angular, GIT, SQL Server, Restful Web Services Software Developer Metaminds - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2010 to May 2012 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the all life-cycle design and development  ? Involved in design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  ? Used Python scripts for automation of production tasks  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development  ? Wrote REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL  ? Extensively worked on JSON based REST Web services  ? Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document  Environment: Python, Linux, Shell Scripting, JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, jQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server.XML, XSL, HTML, JavaScript, JBOSS, Oracle 10g, Windows, web Services Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology in Information Technology Sree Dattha Institute of Engineering & Science 2008 Skills Django (6 years), HTML (7 years), JavaScript (8 years), LINUX (6 years), MySQL. (6 years) Additional Information ? Result-driven IT Professional with 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming skills using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML5/CSS3, AngularJS, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Highly skilled in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  ? Proficient in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  ? Proficient in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML and Perl  ? Experience on the Linux command line environment. Proficient knowledge on basic coding principle.  ? Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python C and C++.  ? Experience with Web Development, AWS, Python and the Django framework.  ? Experience with JSon based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services and also worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  ? Good experience in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite and MySQL databases.  ? Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS) and have knowledge about object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  ? Experience in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.    Technical competencies:    Programming Skills: Python, Python 3, OOPS, C, C++  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5/CSS, PHP, JavaScript, XML, JSON  Web Framework: Flask, Django, Pyramid, Hibernate  Development Tools: PyCharm, Notepad++, SVN, PyDev Eclipse, Sublime, Slack, SQL Alchemy  Operating Systems: Windows7, 8 & 10, Linux/Unix Ubuntu, MAC OS  Python Libraries: Panda, NumPy, Unit Test, SciPy, Matplotlib, PyTables  Databases: MS SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, Cassandra, PostgreSQL and NoSQL database MongoDB (2.6, 2.4)  Version Controls: Git, SVN, CVS, Sub Version  Web Services: CPS, Message Queue, AWS, SOAP, RESTful Web Services  Methodologies: Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall  Agile Methodologies: TTD, SCRUM  Other Tools: Eclipse, ANT Build, Putty, Visual Studio