Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - NexCubed Santa Monica, CA • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Mastering in implementing MVC architecture using PYTHON's Django, Flask for web based applications in OOP concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, and Collections.  • Real Time experience in Robotic Process Automation (RPA) used KAPOW and BLUE PRISM tools for automation process  • Involved in various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum and AgileExperienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, PySide, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt etc, for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python.  • Used Python, Django, CSS, HTML, and jQuery, XML, AJAX and JSON for developing web applications.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP Serializable JSON strings.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, Sublime Text, PyCharm, Jupyter, IPython, PyScripter, and NetBeans.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQL SERVER, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Experienced with Amazon SQS, and Amazon Web Services like EC2, Redshift, Lambda and S3.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell scripting.  • Experienced in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Good amount of experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large-scale applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer NexCubed - Santa Monica, CA January 2016 to Present Description: This project is mainly involved in developing the web application using Python 3.5 version and Django framework in frontend application. Connected the application to AWS using amazon beanstalk using Django framework to run the application on server    Responsibilities  • Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Using Django framework to store large amount of customer, retailers, agent data to Amazon cloud (AWS).  • Developed an autonomous continuous integration system by using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD.  • Used Python based GUI components like PYQT4 for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Wrote Python Pandas scripts to parse and load the data into the database, from the XML and JSON files, and wrote programs for performance calculations by using Python NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  • Utilized Python Libraries like Boto3, NumPy for AWS. Built an AWS and REDIS server for storing the data and performed defect analysis and interaction with Business Users during UAT/SIT.  • Designed and developed asynchronous messaging systems using JMS, MDB, and MQ series.  • Achieved web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Implemented the unit testing by using Python Unit test framework  • Uses multiprocessing and job queues in Python to handle large data volumes and improve processing times  • Migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Dealt with large datasets by using Pandas data frame and MySQL, and performed dynamic implementation of SQL server work on the website using SQL developer tool.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration. Have set up REST APIs using Django.  • Expertise in writing Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined function  • Created unit test/regression test framework. Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, GIT, Puppet for micro services and continuous deployment.  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages and Sql Query optimization.  • Used Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, Bootstrap, MongoDB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python developer HP Inc - San Diego, CA September 2014 to December 2015 Description: Responsible for the design and development of web portals for critical Network Management and Operations. Performed full stack development, including user interfaces, business logic, and communications with backend services.    Responsibilities  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Flask, Pyramid Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 3.4.  • Handled potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors) through error handling and communication of failure.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Wrote Python Object Oriented Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Worked on Restful API to access third-party data for internal analysis and statistical representation of data.  • Achieved web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed automated process for builds and deployments by using Jenkins, Ant, Maven, and Shell Script.  • Used Pandas API to put data as time series, in a tabular format, for east timestamp data manipulation.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Exposure to automation in Ansible using its Python API  • Use of multiple tools, including Apache POI, iText and JFreeChart  • Extensively worked on Spring Bean wiring, Spring DAO, Spring IOC and Spring AOP modules.  • Automated new user and group's creation in HipChat using its Python API and worked on basic HipChat BOT for automated responses.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML and JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Performed requirement analysis and prepared design documents.  • Deployed the project onto the Jenkins server, and organized the configurations and versions of the code using SVN version control system.  • Managed, collaborated and coordinated the work of an offshore development team.  Environment: Python 3.4, Django, Flask, Pyramid, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, jQuery, AJAX, GitHub, Jira. Python Developer BARCLAYS BANK December 2012 to August 2014 Description: Designed and developed integration methodologies between client web portals and existing software infrastructure using Python web frameworks and vendor specific frameworks.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Achieved web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used Python based GUI components like PYQT4 for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Supported Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/GIT. Debugging and trouble shooted web applications.  Environment: Python 3.2, Django, MySQL, AWS, Oracle 11.2, Linux, Django, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, Apache Web Server. Django Developer GGK Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2012 to November 2012 Description: The project is to help clients communicate effectively both internally and with the Indian public through strategic communications, multimedia production, training, and media staffing and management. Worked on development of Media Management Application    Responsibilities  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Work with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Worked as a part of team in developing the UI and other front-end programming including layout of web application matching the Autodesk requirements  • Maintaining the coordination of all the project activities and make sure all the phases of the project are properly followed and documented regularly.  • Used Django for developing web applications to implement the Model View Controller architecture.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Developed GUI using Python webapp2 for to dynamically display the test block documentation and other features of code using a web browser.  • Wrote Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers and Cursors on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Managed datasets by using Panda data frames and MySQL and configuration changes for data models.  Environment: Python 2.7, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Django 1.4, Apache Web Server. Software Developer IIC Services India Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to January 2012 Description: Java web and mobile developer for large payroll and payment Solutions Corporation.    Responsibilities  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the web services.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Started with company as tier one and two support for application development, within one year promoted to Java development position.  • Developed a dynamic member login application and web portal using Java Struts 1.3 and 2.0 framework.  • Troubleshot, applied patches and fixes to existing java applications that were deemed too large to rewrite.  • Administered and developed on a HP Tandem NonStop SQL system, working with transaction processing and database administration.  • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Use GIT for version control.  • Performed Unit and system testing. Trained users and did production support.  Environment: JAVA, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, RESTful, MVC3, GIT. Skills database (8 years), Eclipse (7 years), JavaScript (8 years), Linux (8 years), XML (7 years) Links https://github.com/avinashreddyj16 https://www.linkedin.com/in/avinash-reddy-362178152 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    ? Programming Languages: Python, Core Java, C++, Perl, Shell Scripting.  ? Database: SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB.  ? Frameworks: Django, Flask, Pyramid, Kapow, Blue prism, Tableau  ? Web Design Technologies: HTML5, JavaScript, JSON, AngularJS, CSS3  ? Web servers: Apache, WebLogic, Tomcat, WebSphere  ? IDEs: Eclipse, PyCharm, Spyder, Sublime, NetBeans, NetBeans,  Jupyter, IPython  ? XML Technologies: XML, SOAP, REST.  ? Version Control: GIT, SVN.  ? Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP, SMTP  ? Deployment Tools: Heroku, Jenkins  ? Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows, UNIX, Linux.  ? SDLC: Agile, Water Fall, Iterative Model.