Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Data Visualization, Data Exploring, Statistical Analysis on Data using pandas,numpy,matplotlib,Reg Exp,OOPs,web developer in Python Boston, MA Rajitha  Ph#: 617-420-3543  Email:gullapallirajita@gmail.com  Professional Summary:  • Over Many years of experience as a Data Visualization, Data Exploring, Statistical Analysis on Data and Software Engineer using Python.  • Thorough understanding of Python3.x/2.x basic concepts like Lists, Strings, Indexing, Slicing, Tuples and Dictionaries.  • Familiar with Python Object Oriented concepts like creating classes, constructors, overloading and modules.  • Familiar with NumPy, Pandas and Mathplotlib.  • Advanced topics like iterators, generators, dynamic code execution, regular expressions in Python.  • Involved with problem definition, data exploration, data acquisition and visualization, evaluating and comparing metrics.  • Knowledge of constructing a GUI with Tkinter using library.  • Experience with MYSQL.  • Experience in developing applications using socket programming (TCP/IP and UDP).  • Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django.  • Understanding of how to use network protocol analysis using a tool like Wireshark, Windump.  • Good experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Spyder and UBUNTU.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using HTML5 framework  • Exposure to Agile methodology / SCRUM.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new knowledge. A person with multi-tasking and organizational skills and high ethical standards.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team.    Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.x/2.7/2.4,   Framework Django Web framework, MVC Framework  Versioning Tools Git, SVN, CVS  Databases MySQL  Operating Systems Windows, LINUX and UNIX.    Professional Experience:     Client: Travelzoo, NewYork, NY. Aug 15 – Till now    Worked on development and Enhancement of Travelzoo, the premier travel reservation site. Travellers can find their dream destinations and post their requirements and inquiries. Travel agents can post their promotions and can respond to the inquiries and interests of travellers. Features include memberships, destination search, payment system for travel agents membership renewal, newsletters, promotion campaigns, shopping cart.  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes.  • Created Use-Case diagrams and State diagrams using MS Visio.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.   • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation   • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.   • Involved in Installation and setting up Python/Linux test beds.   • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Worked in Python on a SQL database.  • Delivered presentations on Project Status and Current Open Issues Report to Users, Stakeholders and other involved groups.  • Developed a Coverity mail script that extracts code defects data per component for a daily report to drive reducing defects in the codebase.  • Conducted weekly meetings with the development and testing team to relay any changed requirements and updates on the development and testing.  • Played a key role in the planning, testing, and implementing system enhancements and conversions. Worked closely with project manager in handling the whole project.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, SQL, Windows and Linux,    Jr. Python Developer at CISCO, India Nov 2012 – Oct. 2014  Visual multi-host ping  Description: Ping is a computer network administration software utility used to test the reachability of a host on an Internet Protocol (IP) network and to measure the round-trip time for messages sent from the originating host to a destination computer and back. Multi-host ping let us know the status of multiple hosts at the same time.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code   optimization.   • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.   • Understanding of the threading limitations of Python, and multi-process architecture.  • Used Regular Expression for implementation.  • Knowledge of user authentication and authorization between multiple systems, servers, and environments     Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, Wireshark, Windump, MySQL, Linux.    Traffic analyzer  Description: Traffic analyzer is a visual analyzer, which sniffs the traffic in the LAN and plots the graphs and shows bandwidth consumption statistics.  Responsibilities:  • Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency  • Used Pandas package to retrieve and analyze data  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.   • Coding in Python (Linux, MySQL) environment.  • Protocol analysis using a tool like Wireshark, Windump.    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, MySQL, Linux.    Paper Published:  DESIGINING OF INSTRUCTION FETCHING IN 64-BIT RISC PROCESSOR USING VERILOG.    INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES, VOL. 02, ISSUE 05, MAY 2014 ISSN 2321 –8665    Reference : http://www.ijitech.org/uploads/4123563.pdf    Internship Projects:    EMAX Technologies Internship Project Details:   April 2010-Aug 2010   Project: 64 Bit RISC Processor with Built In Self Repair Capability for Memory  • This project involves the Designing of 64 bit Risc Processor, detect the faults present in the Memory and also to repair the detected faults.   • Memory repair is the necessary, since just detecting the faults is no longer sufficient for Soc’s, hence both diagnosis and repair algorithms are required.   April 2008-Aug 2008   Project: Tracking of Position using GSM & GPS using Microcontroller AT89C51.  • This project we have two modules one is GPS and the second one is GSM.   • We monitor the latitude and longitude of an area by using the GPS modem.   • The GPS receiver will continuously receive this latitude, longitude from the satellite and transmit those values to the microcontroller through serial communication.   • By using those values we can measure the position of that objects. GPS provides the best support for the navigators including Earth, Water and Air by determining the user’s exact position GPS determine the position of the user with different coordinates accurately.  • If our base station needs the information about vehicle location it just sends a sms to the system then the system send the latitude and longitude values as a sms using GSM.  Course Certification Details:  • ADCA certificate from Slice Computer Education from  3/01/2004 to 05/07/2004  Which consists of ITC, Ms-DOS, Windows, Ms.-Power Point, MS-Word, MS-Excel, FOXPRO.    Educational Qualification:  Masters in VLSI System Design (JNTUH, India) May. 2011  Bachelors ECE (JNTUH, India) April 2009 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Travelzoo - New York, NY August 2015 to November 2016 NewYork, NY. Aug 15 - Nov16    Worked on development and Enhancement of Travelzoo, the premier travel reservation site. Travellers can find their dream destinations and post their requirements and inquiries. Travel agents can post their promotions and can respond to the inquiries and interests of travellers. Features include memberships, destination search, payment system for travel agents membership renewal, newsletters, promotion campaigns, shopping cart.  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes.  • Created Use-Case diagrams and State diagrams using MS Visio.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python/Linux test beds.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Worked in Python on a SQL database.  • Delivered presentations on Project Status and Current Open Issues Report to Users, Stakeholders and other involved groups.  • Developed a Coverity mail script that extracts code defects data per component for a daily report to drive reducing defects in the codebase.  • Conducted weekly meetings with the development and testing team to relay any changed requirements and updates on the development and testing.  • Played a key role in the planning, testing, and implementing system enhancements and conversions. Worked closely with project manager in handling the whole project.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, SQL, Windows and Linux, Jr. Python Developer IN November 2012 to October 2014 Visual multi-host ping  Description: Ping is a computer network administration software utility used to test the reachability of a host on an Internet Protocol (IP) network and to measure the round-trip time for messages sent from the originating host to a destination computer and back. Multi-host ping let us know the status of multiple hosts at the same time.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code  optimization.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Understanding of the threading limitations of Python, and multi-process architecture.  • Used Regular Expression for implementation.  • Knowledge of user authentication and authorization between multiple systems, servers, and environments    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, Wireshark, Windump, MySQL, Linux.    Traffic analyzer  Description: Traffic analyzer is a visual analyzer, which sniffs the traffic in the LAN and plots the graphs and shows bandwidth consumption statistics.  Responsibilities:  • Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency  • Used Pandas package to retrieve and analyze data  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Coding in Python (Linux, MySQL) environment.  • Protocol analysis using a tool like Wireshark, Windump.    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, MySQL, Linux.    Paper Published:  DESIGINING OF INSTRUCTION FETCHING IN 64-BIT RISC PROCESSOR USING VERILOG. Links http://www.ijitech.org/uploads/4123563.pdf Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.x/2.7/2.4,  Framework Django Web framework, MVC Framework  Versioning Tools Git, SVN, CVS  Databases MySQL    Operating Systems Windows, LINUX and UNIX.