Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - PIMCO Newport Beach, CA • Around 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js and Projects UI Designing Team.  • Experienced in Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL ( Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Good Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Strong Experience with python automation in automating Rest API and UI automation using Selenium web driver using Python.  • Experience with automation, web development and engineering environment tools such as JIRA, Jenkins, Git, Bitbucket, Chef, Selenium, QTP, Maven.  • Experience and Technical proficiency in Designing, Data Modeling Online Applications, Solution Lead for Architecting Data Warehouse/Business Intelligence Applications.  • Experience in Multi-threading & Memory management  • Highly skilled in using visualization tools like Tableau, ggplot2 and d3.js for creating dashboards.  • Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using REST, SOAP, WSDL  • Hands on UML compliant high-level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer.  • Worked on ETL Source to Target mapping documents, Data Analysis, Data profiling, Data testing, Migrating ETL code to different environments.  • Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem-Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing. Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Experience with Version Control with SVN, CVS, and GIT.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB. Designed and Developed automation scripts using Selenium Web Driver. Work Experience Python Developer PIMCO - Newport Beach, CA October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Used MySQL to manage data frames, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector, MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Used Python & Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange & business logic implementation between servers.  • Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Developed UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client-side validation.  • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and jQuery.  • Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  • Involved in building stable reusable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server-side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and Flask.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Rich UI development experience and well versed in client-side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI  • Worked on various applications using Python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, and NetBeans. Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQL alchemy.  • Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  • Worked on development of backend services using Python, SQL and Linux. Created many API's for scrum project which involves creating and maintaining projects in an organization, and developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Used AWS Cloud Watch to monitor and store logging information  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets.  • Used Vagrant tool in puppet and chef for testing infrastructure scripts.  • Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Backbone.js, Node.js, Bootstrap and other JavaScript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  • Used jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, AngularJS, jQuery and REST Services  • Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  • Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  • Used jQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • Integrate the Ext JS/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  • Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS, Pyspark and JavaScript.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Involved in developing custom Taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  • Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and jQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  • Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, jQuery, and AngularJS.  • Prepared statements are used for communication SQL database  • Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, NetBeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. Python Developer CITADEL - Greenwich, CT July 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities:    • Extensively involved in the requirements gathering, development, created documentation of web-based application.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Jira.  • Worked closely with Devops team to set up CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Ansible, AWS, Maven and GIT.  • Experience in trouble shooting spark jobs. Knowledge of monitoring spark jobs using Spark UI.  • Involved in Code Review & peer review.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Redesigned the existing conversation module with ReactJS according to the client requirements.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals, and technical documentation.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Used extracted data for analysis and carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python library - NumPy, SciPy.  • Processed the data by making use of PySpark SQL.  • Built data sets with PySpark using MLlib.  • Mixed regular Python code with PySpark using Pandas UDFs.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing. Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Understanding the requirement and extracting the required data.  • Actively participated in technical and functional knowledge sharing sessions.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Designed Object-relational mappers.  • Designed and Developed REST Web services to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for web services communication  • Worked in developing web pages using HTML/HTML5, XML, DHTML CSS/CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, React.JS, Redux, JQuery, JSON, Node.js, and Ajax.  • Worked with Ansible to manages the containers and the environments around the containers  • Experience in deployment Automation using multiple tools Chef, Puppet, Jenkins, GIT , TFS, SonarQube ANT Scripts  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects to hold values between python classes and database fields.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Interacted with Clients for Clarifications based on the prepared Technical specification documents.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production.  • Developed python scripts to extract the data from the web server output files to load into HDFS.    Environment: Python, Pyspark, Django, jQuery, JavaScript, Backbone JS, MySQL Server, Oracle11.2, Linux, Django, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache. Python Developer HCSC - Chicago, IL November 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:    • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Created UNIX shell scripts and automated the ETL processes using UNIX shell scripting.  • Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Experience with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player.    Environment: Python, Django 1.4, MySQL, Amazon EC2, Amazon SQS, S3, Windows, Linux HTML5/CSS3, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, Apache. Software Developer UPS - Atlanta, GA October 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:    • Developed ASP.NET Web Pages Using C#, Web Controls, Master Pages and CSS.  • Responsible for implementation of a new .NET OGS System.  • OGS System is designed with the goal to increase confidents of UPS associates in the search of the lost packages.  • Made major modification to the system using C#, VB.NET and JavaScript  • Developed Client-Side Code using JavaScript.  • Used Regular Expression to assure that all user input is validated before submitting to the back-end.  • Wrote SQL stored procedures to purge old images and to free up DASD space in SQL server.  • Created ad-hoc SQL queries as needed to produce monthly reports for OGS user's management department.  • Wrote technical and functional system requirements, analyzed and made suggestions for the application future use.  • Quickly learned existing application and made necessary updates in C# and VB to meet critical deadlines.  • Optimized application for maximum speed and scalability. Build and perform QA user acceptance testing.  • Collaborated with other team members and worked closely with system users.  • OGS System was written using C#, VB.NET, SQL, ASP.NET and JavaScript.    Environment: C#, VB.NET, SQL, ASP.NET and JavaScript. Software Developer Goldstone Technologies, Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:    • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic in Model using C#.  • Involved in development of Web Forms, Classes using C#.NET that incorporates both N-tier architecture and database connectivity.  • Worked with ASP.NET web forms, Master Pages, Web Services, and State Management, caching features, Configuring Optimizations and securing the web application.  • Used ASP.NET AJAX extensively for calling Web Services without writing a lot of custom JavaScript code to handle the request and response messages.  • Created and deployed Web Services using ASP.NET, SOAP and XML for Pulling Customer Service Records.  • Modified Web Services to interact with the other applications and exposed them using SOAP and HTTP.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Used AJAX for rich user interface operations, trade data with a Web Server without reloading the page and avoiding post back to the server.  • Designed and developed the user interface for various tools and implemented ASP.NET validation controls, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap for server and client-side validations respectively.  • Used JavaScript (jQuery) to enhance UI experience on Client-Side and also used jQuery to perform validations and catch the events on client's browser.  • Used LINQ to Entities for retrieving the data efficiently and Just in Time manner.  • Implemented Eager Loading and Explicit Loading, Compiled queries, Immediate Execution to improve performance to LINQ to Entities.  • Implement NUnit Testing, Integration Testing and Regression Testing.  • Followed Agile Methodology which involves daily scrums meetings and Sprint meetings (planning, Review, Retro) to meet deadlines and expectations.  • Extensively used Report Wizard, Report Builder and Report Manager for developing reports and deploying reports in SSRS.  • Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server for the purpose of version Control and source code maintenance needs.  • Involved in Coding and Tuning the queries, stored procedures and functions using T-SQL.    Environment: Visual Studio 2008, Web Forms, SOAP, HTTP, Ajax, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, LINQ, TFS, Unit Testing, SSRS, T-SQL, SQL Server 2008. Education Bachelor's Skills Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (5 years), database (7 years), JavaScript (8 years), SQL (6 years), XML (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Cloud Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services, PCF, OpenStack  Libraries Pandas, NumPy, Urllib, matplotlib, Unit Test, JSON, CSV, XML, XLS, React JS, Vue.js  Python Framework Django, Flask, Spring  Version Control Tools Git, GitHub, SVN, VSS  Web Technologies Java, J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, XML, JSON  Languages C, C++, Core Java, J2EE, Python, Javascript  Software Development Lifecycle Agile Methodology, Scrum framework  Operating System Red Hat, Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, CentOS, Windows, Solaris, Mac OS,  Database Oracle 11g/10g/9i, DB2, MS-SQL Server, MySQL, MS-Access, PostgreSQL, NoSQL (Mongo DB), SQLite3  Web and Application Servers JBoss, Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, Web Logic, Nginx,  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  Repository Management Nexus, JFrog, Artifactory  Build Tools Maven, Ant, Gradle  Container Orchestration Tools Docker Swarm, Kubernetes, EC2 Container Services, Azure Container Services