Data Build and Python Scripting Engineer Data Build and <span class="hl">Python</span> Scripting Engineer Data Build and Python Scripting Engineer - MBNL • A dynamic professional with 2+ years experience in python scripting and debugging. Flawless history of delivering complex IT projects on time, within budget/specifications and without compromising performance. Work Experience Data Build and Python Scripting Engineer MBNL November 2017 to Present Team Size: 10  Accomplishments:    ? Worked on 3G and 4G  ? Sites planning and configuration Operational engineer and python Developer Sprint Communications August 2016 to October 2017 Team Size: 10  Responsibilities:  ? Co-ordinate and maintain the teams online learning platform e.g. managing any content update, resolving technical problems  ? Planning and Provisioning of Circuit Facility Assignment (T1).  ? Validation and verification of the data in NRM with multiple teams like Site Development,  Capacity Analyst, Testing and RF Team.  ? Managing and meeting the dates for project completion as per the Service Level Agreement (SLA).  ? Worked on Supplement reduction "Six Sigma project" which saved $15,120 per annum.  ? Coordinating with Legacy & vendor companies like AT&T, Verizon, CenturyLink, Frontier and other minor LEC's for completing end to end process.  ? Issuing change request to optimize the path.  ? Move orders to update the site location at the LEC end.  ? Cost reduction to Sprint by disconnecting circuits.    Six Sigma Project: Supplement Reduction in Wireless Interconnection Services  ? This complex project was mainly based on reducing the supplements done on Access Service  Requests sent for installation of T1s.  ? Customer and top level management was involved as it demanded the interactions between teams across boundaries on various verticals.  ? Analyzed the process gaps and implemented measures to enhance the process.  ? Automation tool "T-bot" was developed to minimize the manual errors.  ? Six Sigma methodology and Lean methodology was experienced on a tough level i  ? project. Statistical tools were used accordingly resulting in savings of $15120 per annum Education B. TECH in ECE Bhoj Reddy Engineering College for Women - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2016 Education Narayana Junior College 2012 Rajadhani High School 2010