Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - MVP Healthcare Edison, NJ • Over 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, and Django.  • Expertise with software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity).  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, Django, PHP, Angular JS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced with Python frameworks like Webapp2 and, Flask.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Proficient in Unit Test Plans (UTP), Integrated Test Plans (ITP) Extensive experience in User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience to perform migration in classic ASP to Python.  • Hands-on experience in UNIX and Linux Kernels.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Sound Knowledge on RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle, SQL Server 2008, MYSQL.  • Exceptional problem solving and sound decision making capabilities, recognized by associates for quality of data, alternative solutions, and confident, accurate, decision making.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer MVP Healthcare - Rochester, NY August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved understanding the current business process, defining scope of the project along with position statement  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  • Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated Python and Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Designed and developed database system using MySQL.  • Used Django Framework for database access and generating the database online.  • Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Built efficient Angular.js backend for client web application.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  • Developed Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with FLEX/JAVA/ PYTHON.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Created use-case scenarios and storyboards in MS Word and MS PowerPoint for better visualization of the application.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA.  • Automate the outbound/inbound EDI document to drop files in the client ftp server.  • Provided technical and business knowledge to clients.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.    Environment: Python, Django, Couchbase Python SDK, Pandas, Java, Java Script, HTML, CSS, JSON, Angular.js, JQuery, Shell Scripting, XML, Jira, MYSQL, GitHub, SQL, PLSQL, and Linux. Python Developer First National Bank - Houston, TX June 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python 2.7, Java, Bash script, AutoIt, AutoHotKey and Java Script.  • Created a custom CMS built using Django, with jQuery AJAX components. Also designed from the start with SEO in mind.  • One of the designated Python experts on the team performing code reviews and implementing best pythonic practices  • Developed proof of concept app using Python Cubes  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Worked with Open stack Command-line client  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, DOM, JavaScript, Flash, JQuery, JSON, REST, Apache Web Server, Git, Couchbase, PyQuery, MYSQL, Linux. Python Developer CLEAR-SWITCH - Philadelphia, PA October 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, UNIX. Python Developer Frontier Communications - Rochester, NY November 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Application architecture designed as per the requirements using spring framework.  ? Requirement Analysis and Estimation of project timelines.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Generated pdf daily and Monthly statements using Aspose PDF Kit.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  ? Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  ? Wrote SQL Queries, Store Procedures, Triggers and functions in MySQL Databases.  ? Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Coordinate with SMEs, other architects, and senior technical staff to identify client's needs, document assumptions, and build-out new requirements and move code through user acceptance testing.    Environment: Python, HTML, CSS, Java Script, TDD, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Python Developer Tricom India Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra April 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic.  • Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.    Environment: Python, DOM, HTML, CSS, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows. Software Developer ITC Infotech Ltd - Kolkata, West Bengal June 2009 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing, constructing and documenting various object oriented applications using UML, Rational Rose.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end using HTML, XML, DHTML and JSP.  • Servlets were used as an application layer to provide the main logic of the application and the interaction with databases using JDBC API.  • Wrote SQL queries and Oracle stored procedures for accessing and manipulating the data in the database.  • Oracle 8i and SQL Server were used as the database.  • Client side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Used VI as Editor for writing the coding in the UNIX Environment.    Environment: Java, C++, JDBC, JSP, JavaScript, SQL Server, Oracle, UNIX and Windows NT. Skills HTML (8 years), SQL (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), JAVA (5 years), PYTHON (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django, Webapp2, Flask  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery, JSON  Version Control Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN  Web servers Apache, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008 , Oracle  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows Variants