Lead Python Developer Lead <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Python Developer - Walmart eCommerce Reston, VA • Professional 9+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask and C++.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Devise robust technology solutions for unique customer needs, investigating feasible solutions and environments using C / C++.  • Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache and Siebel.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, backbone.js, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experience in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) Framework, JQuery, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites.  • Knowledge in UX design, UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4, Adobe Fireworks CS3 and Adobe Illustrator CS3. Dreamweaver, Notepad++.  • Extensive knowledge in developing web page quickly and effectively using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQUERY and also experience in making web page cross browser compatible.  • Strong front-end development skills in CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, Bootstrap, Angular JS, CSS, XML, Responsive.  • Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML and MVC Architecture and also have experience in using version control (SVN).  • Experience in development of Web Applications in MEAN stack which includes knowledge on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, NodeJS, MongoDB.  • Expert in working with cutting edge front-end technologies/ framework and libraries like jQuery, Prototype, (X)HTML, DHTML, OO JavaScript, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML/XSLT, AJAX.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries (jQuery) and developing Rich Internet Applications RIA.  • Experience in debugging using chrome developer tools and firebug.  • Good knowledge of using JavaScript unit testing frameworks, Jasmine and Karma.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Experience with new features of Html5 such as semantic elements, audio and video elements.  • Worked with Agile waterfall and scrum methodology.  • Well experienced in developing multi-tenant applications using latest technologies and frameworks such as HTML5, CSS3, Angular (1.x), Bootstrap, REST Web API, Node JS and Express JS.  • Experience with Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap.  • A front-end developer expertise in Web Development, designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, jQuery, Angular JS, Ajax, JSON, Node JS and XML.  • Worked on complete Agile Scrum Methodology and User Interface web development in accordance with requirements.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using Angular JS, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3.  • Adroit in CSS preprocessors like Sass, LESS.  • Influential in Web designing technologies like HTML5, XHTML, JavaScript, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular 1-2, Angular JS, Ajax and JSON. Work Experience Lead Python Developer Walmart eCommerce - San Bruno, CA October 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Developed dynamic web pages to view the reports generated utilizing Django Framework.  • By utilizing Python on Django Web Framework developed entire frontend and backend modules.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgresql DB and integrations  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Used PyCharm for programming using Python.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, Sublime, Pystudio, Pyscripter and NetBeans.  • working with python editors like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Wing IDE and Spyder.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Pandas, Twisted and matPlotLib.  • Worked on CRUD permissions using MySQL and presented them with the beautiful wxPython widgets.  • Extensively implemented the python libraries like Pandas, Matplotlib, Numpy to manipulate and visualize the data using interactive charts.  • Used Python for data analytics, data wrangling and extracting data using Pandas, Pyexcel, NumPyand SciPy.  • Developed several python modules in Ipython kernel using Interactive packages such as Pygame, Matplotlib, VPython.  • Used Anaconda for data-mining and visual interaction with Matplotlib and Pandas libraries.  • Used typescript as a superset for JavaScript with babel to make it compatible to older browsers.  • Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, backbone, Angular JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Used multiple in-built directives and APIs in AngularJS such as filters, root scope, child scope, Template, etc.  • Responsible for making responsive web pages using bootstrap and media Queries.  • Developed DOM and built various models to view by using events in Backbone JS.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Developed custom web application interfaces using HTML and CSS to meet the requirements of the client.  • Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Conducted Disaster recovery testing for fusion applications and oracle databases to ensure business continuity and recovery of business infrastructure from any disaster.  • Wrote database triggers, procedures, functions in PL/SQL and incorporated business rules and constraints.  • Used JDBC to query, update and maintain Database Servers using SQL queries.  • Cassandra database design, column family design and implementation, data migration scripts from Oracle to Cassandra, Cassandra tuning and data access optimization.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Used SVN for version control and used eclipse as the IDE for developing the application.  • Design and implementation of WebLogic application configuration management system based on WebLogic Scripting Tool (WLST).  • Utilised version control tool GIT in order to communicate with other team members in order to work on the same code-base in the repository.  • Involved in source code management with the help of GitHub using push and pull operations of GIT and created a local GIT repository so that the source code can be managed locally.  • Involved with writing code to perform e2e testing using protractor.  • Worked with Selenium and Jasmine for writing unit test cases along with functionality and integrated test cases.  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Development of the application using Agile/SCRUM Methodology.  • Used Maven script for building and deploying the application    Environment: Python, Django, Flask, MySQL, PostgreSQL, PyCharm, PyDev, wxPython, numPY, matPlotLib, PyQT ,HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, React.js, JavaScript, JSP, Agile, Adobe Photoshop, JIRA, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, Oracle, Web server, HTML, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, Rally, GIT, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3 and Web Services. Python Developer QuickCashMI - Ann Arbor, MI April 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Coded model level validation using Python programming with emphasis in web security.  • Developed and tested many features in an Agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Managed continuous maintenance and troubleshooting of Python Django projects.  • Utilized Python, Django, jQuery and Java etc. to design server applications and client  interfaces.  • Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and Carpathia's cloud operations.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on Python Django Forms to record data of online users and used Flask, Django frameworks for creation of web pages.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package  • Worked on installations of JBoss, Apache and PostgreSQL server.  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB and PostgreSQL.  • Used integrated debugger tool from PyCharm for debugging of source code for better analysis.  • Analyzed client needs and developed software tools to assist dynamic site content creation ( Python, wxPython).  • Used NumPY for Numerical analysis  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library  • Involved in the Development of various layers to accommodate the application as per the MVC design pattern, DAO and DTO patterns using Spring and Struts, Hibernate.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code  • Developed front-end, cross-browser DHTML templates and all GUI features and content via JSP, CSS, XML and jQuery  • Test HTML5 code to see if it is being used by the browser, through the use of the JavaScript library, Modernizr. Develop JavaScript workaround if browser is incompatible.  • Worked with npm commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of Node js applications.  • Used Dependency Injection (DI) from Angular.JS factories and services.  • Working with Bootstrap twitter framework to Design single page application.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content. Management System using Backbone.JS and jQuery.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Supported and maintained IMS and DB2 Databases in Large Financial Institute  • Worked with development of packages and procedures using PL/SQL and functions using ETL and PL/SQL.  • Lead effort for the architectural design for the installation and use of MongoDB and NodeJS into the Enterprise. MongoDB database design and configuration, web services coding with NodeJS. UIdevelopment with ExpressJS.  • Worked in creating various types of indexes on different collections to get good performance in Mongo DB.  • Worked on Web Services graphs, where the real time requests comes in and made sure the response is being sent back utilizing Soap UI  • Full cycle of Webservices extracts like JSON, Flat file, XML formats, testing ESB connectivity  • Wrote extensive HTML/ HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages using Eclipse.  • Involved with Websphere portal Administration for creating deployment diagrams and deploying portlets and creating pages and adding portlets to the pages.  • Developed the Presentation layer, which was built using Servlets and JSP and MVC architecture on Websphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD).  • Used Subversion to implement version control System.  • Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using selenium.  • Added unit tests to codebase using Jasmine.  • Facilitated Scrum events (Planning, Daily Standup, Review, Retro, Refinement) and coordinated them across different teams to avoid conflicts regarding schedule, resources, and priorities  • Created UML diagrams like Class, Activity, and Sequence diagrams using modeling tools like IBM Rational Suite mainly worked on IBM Rational Rose.  • Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in Web Sphere server  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Restful Web APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and Jquery.  • Agile Program management, Scrum, Bug Cycle management, SDLC design advice using JIRA. Program Management process/tools implementation/customization.    Environments: Python, Django, Flask, MySQL, PostgreSQL, PyCharm, PyDev, wxPython, numPY, matPlotLib, PyQT, Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, Dojo, Sencha Extjs, Javascript, CSS, AJAX, HTML5, DB2, Crud, Pl/Sql, JDBC, Apache Cxf, Soap, Webservices, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, Coherence, Mongo DB, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, Subversion, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, XML, Itext, Oracle ECM, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jira, Jasper Report, Ilog, Jrules, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP. Python Developer Groupon - Whitehouse Station, NJ April 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Python, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX at the front end.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Worked on various Integrated Development Environments like PyDev, PyCharm, PyScripter and NINJA-IDE.  • Used wxPython heavily for widgets and features involved in creating a typical desktop application  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Used pandas, Numpy, Seaborn, SciPy, MatPlotLib, Sklearn and NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit), in Python for developing various machine learning algorithms.  • Developed REST controller for CRUD operations in SPRING framework and tested services in SOAP UI.  • With the IBatis implementation, all the queries were separated away from the code and moved to the XML files. Used Spring IBatis XML configuration files to call the queries.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Designed and implemented the server side logic using EJB.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using jQuery, Ajax and jQuery UI.  • Created User Interface in DOJO/AJAX and Struts2 tags for different customized screens for each type of user.  • Developed UI event handlers and AJAX callback code using Sencha Ext JS/Touch & Angular JS to interact with the CDP-GUI Web services.  • Configured and involved in installing and securing the AWS cloud servers with Apache-Tomcat and MySQL.  • Involved in writing procedures, complex queries using PL/SQL to extract data from database and to delete the data and to reload the data on Oracle DB using Toad tool  • Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development with DB2 database as the backend.  • Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Developed web services using Apache Axis2 in Java and SOAP/WSDL on SOA architecture  • Developed web services component using XML, WSDL and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications.  • Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  • Experience in developing and deploying applications through JBOSS and Wildfly application server.  • Maintaining the archive database for all projects in Rhode code server through Mercurial application.  • Worked with Clearcase source management and performed unit testing using Junit and version control through GitHub  • Designed and Developed Automation test scripts in Java implementing test in selenium Web Driver.  • Designing the flow of the project using Waterfall Model.  • User input validations done using JavaScript and developed use cases using UML.  • Modified the UI screens created by web designer using HTML, JSP, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  • Developed the Ant scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.  • Maintained and manipulated databases for XML parsing for applications in MySQL.  • Developed order receipt report with bar code using lowage iText and jasper report.  • Integrating ADF application with EMC Documentum using standard APIs provided.  • Design and implementation of desktop, mobile and web applications in Java and HTML5/Javascript using Eclipse, NetBeans, and Xcode IDE's; Swing, GWT, Vaadin, JPA, Hibernate, PhoneGap.  • Used Bitbucket to manage repositories and JIRA for project status tracking.  • Designed and Developed application screens using Swing, HTML, jQuery, JSP, Node.js, Ext JS, Angular.js, Can.js and CSS.  • Worked on the performance improvement of Cognos reports and dashboards thereby improving the efficiency.  • Worked on designing and creating the reports and memos using the Jasper report tools.    Environment: Python, Django, Flask, MySQL, PostgreSQL, PyCharm, PyDev, wxPython, numPY, matPlotLib, PyQT, Java, J2EE, Spring, iBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, Jboss, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, JQuery, JQuery, JSP, SERVLET, MYSQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, UML, Netbeans, SeleniuM, ANT, Xml, EMC Documentum, JIRA, SWING, CVS, Visual Source Safe, Cognos, ILOG, Water fall model. Python Developer Discount Hockey Inc - Woodland Hills, CA September 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Rewritten existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, web application testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environments: Python , Django, HTML5, CSS3, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL, T-SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer CBR eCommerce - Montgomery, AL September 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Developed dashboard using High charts JavaScript library.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Pandas ( Python library) for Statistical Analysis.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Used standard Python Modules e.g. CVS, RobotParser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, for development.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and customer needs.  • Used Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Creating database schema for MySQL Database and helped to draw ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.    Environments: Python, Django, Java Script, HTML5, XHTML, JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS3, MySQL, Bootstrap, Heroku, Git, SQLAlchemy,Linux, SQL server. UI Developer eBay Ecommerce Channel - New York, NY September 2008 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  • Worked on Libraries like Pandas for data manipulation and analysis.  • Programmatically controlled the COMSOL Multiphysics® model in the MATLAB® graphical user interface to perform case studies and customize plots and data processing.  • Developed most of the application part in Linux environment and very much familiar with all its commands.  • Used TKinter to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.    Environments: Linux, Python, Django, Ansible, HTML, XML, JavaScript, AngularJs, JQuery, MS SQL Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Hadoop Beautiful soup, Perl, Pandas, Matlab, Eclipse, Kafka Git, GitHub, JIRA Education Master of Science in Computer Science FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY Skills Django (9 years), HTML (9 years), JQuery (9 years), Linux. (8 years), Python (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Frameworks Django, web2py, Flask, and CSS  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS  Programming Languages Python, C, C++  Version Control Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS  Application servers Apache Tomcat, Puppet, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  IDE's/ Development Tools Eclipse, PyCharm, and Sublime Text.  Web Services AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3  Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP, REST  Deployment Tools Jenkins  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA  Automation Selenium with Python