Sr. Python Application Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Application Developer - International Medical Corps Los Angeles, CA Sr. Python Developer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Application Developer International Medical Corps - Los Angeles, CA August 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Effectively worked on Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  ? Worked on modern JavaScript front-end frameworks like vue.js, React.  ? Implemented Microservice via Scala Play Framework and provide RESTful APIs for other services in the pipeline to consume it.  ? Involved in web application development for backend system using AngularJS and Node.js with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS techniques.  ? Worked on Vue.JS for building apps and declarative templates with data-binding, created some custom directives in the application.  ? Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Framework using Git.  ? Developed a Progressive Web App, which more suited for mobile devices.  ? Designed UX interface and UI components using HTML and CSS  ? Designed back schema, and database JSON structures  ? Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance  ? Developed MVC prototype replacement of the current product with Django.  ? Developed dashboard using JavaScript library.  ? Worked on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) and Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring framework using DJANGO.  ? Implemented Backbone JS for the creation of networking applications using JavaScript.  ? Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Implemented Integration test cases and developed predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  ? Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  Environment: Python 3.7, SQL, Django, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Vue.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, REST, Linux, MySQL, and python libraries such as Flask/Django Sr. Python Developer Hertz - Estero, FL July 2016 to August 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs, and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing, and deployment.  ? Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  ? Worked on Azure SQL Database Import and Export Service.  ? Created User Controls and simple animations using JavaScript and Python.  ? Used Pandas library for Statistical Analysis.  ? Performed quality control checks of GIS data and non-spatial databases to ensure data integrity  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Designed and implemented the Model-View-View Model pattern for many components in the project (Contracts, Products, Search Sales, Employees, BackOffice Admin).  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Interface with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Explored Spark to improve the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, Pair RDD's, Spark YARN.  ? Responsible for Plug-in Management, User Management and Backup/Disaster Recovery Plan/Implementation (BDR) on Jenkins.  ? Performed automation of testing using Quick Test Pro and programmed dynamic VB Scripts in Expert view for testing GUI Functionality.  ? Automated continuous integration delivery workflows to deploy Micro services applications via Docker containers.  ? Worked on large datasets and Machine Learning class using TensorFlow and Apache Spark.  ? Worked with Spark Core, Spark ML, Spark Streaming and Spark SQL.  ? Enabled speedy reviews and first-mover advantages by using Oozie to automate data loading into the Hadoop Distributed File System and Pig to pre-process the data.  ? Installed, configured and managed the ELK (Elastic Search, Log Facilitated Scrum ceremonies like Sprint planning, retrospectives, Daily stand-ups, etc. Stash and Kibana) for Log management within EC2/ Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) for Elastic search  ? Met client audit requirements by developing python scripts to retrieve AWS RDS logs using Boto3  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Loaded and transformed large sets of structured, semi-structured and unstructured data using Hadoop/Big Data concepts.  ? Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  ? Used SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) delivering enterprise, Web-enabled reporting to create reports that draw content from a variety of data sources.  ? Used JQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Used GitHub for version control.  Environment: Python, Django, CouchBase Python, PHP, C++, HTML, JQuery, AJAX, XHTML, JavaScript, XML, JSON, GitHub, Flash, SQLite, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, Hadoop, Oracle and Windows Python Developer Marriott International - Gaithersburg, MD November 2015 to June 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Used SDLC process and used Django for web development.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  ? Used large-scale Hadoop YARN cluster for distributed data processing and analysis using Hive and MongoDB.  ? Loaded and transformed large sets of structured, semi-structured and unstructured data using Hadoop/Big Data concepts.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger, and function on MYSQL.  ? Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  ? Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs  ? Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  ? Used PHP language on lamp server to develop page.  ? Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic 2014, using SQL developer tools.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server, PHP, Hadoop, Lamp, underscore JS. SQL Developer Python Developer Pioneer Hi-Bred International - Johnston, IA November 2014 to October 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Designed, developed, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Interaction with the client to understand expectations and requirements.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Worked on Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed high-level design documents.  ? Implemented front end for third-party Web service using jQuery, Html, AJAX, JSON, and JavaScript.  ? Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  ? Worked on web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django and SQLAlchemy).  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MySQL.  ? Associated with the development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  ? Worked on LINUX operating system.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, jQuery, Java, MySQL, Oracle, Linux, Django, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Red hat Linux, Apache, MS Office, Google Analytics Python Developer Align Technology - Cary, NC December 2012 to October 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  ? Created APIs, database Model, and Views Utilization Python to build responsive web page application.  ? Stored the data in the form of JSON structure-based documents, stored in a collection using MongoDB.  ? Developed web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery  ? Developed an automated process for builds and deployments by using Jenkins, Ant, Maven, and Shell Script.  ? Documented company Restful API's using Swagger for internal and third party use and worked on Unit testing and Integration testing.  ? Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  ? Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  Environment: Python, Java, Django, AWS, Angular.Js, Jenkins, Docker, MySQL, MongoDB, HTML, JavaScript, JSON, XML, JQuery, Linux WSDL, Restful, CSS, PostgreSQL, Swagger, Git, JIRA Java Developer Kernex Microsystems - IN August 2010 to October 2012 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Project Design Documentation, design Reviews and Code Reviews.  ? Understanding the functional specifications and architecture.  ? Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  ? Developed and coded J2EE Components with JSP, Java Beans, business objects with Hibernate and Servlets.  ? Developed SQL Server stored procedures to execute the back-end processes using.  ? Developed and Deployed the Application on WebSphere using ANT build.xml script.  ? Wrote Struts services and DAOS in the service layer for SQL data retrieval operations using JDBC.  ? Worked on WebSphere as application deployment servers.  Environment: Eclipse, Java, JSP, Ajax, Struts, Spring Framework, JNDI, UDDI, WSDL, SOAP, Agile, UML, XML, HTML, Log 4j, Oracle 10g, Shell Script, CVS, Maven, and Windows XP Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science SRM University 2010