Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Fujitsu ? 8+ years of professional experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, Flask, Pyramid and client-server technologies-based applications, RESTful services, AWS, C, C++, JAVA and SQL.  ? Hands-on-experience on python web application development using Django and Serverless framework.  ? Worked in Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyDev, PyCharm and Sublime Text.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  ? Experience in developing python scripts for automation and performing functional tests and data validation.  ? Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and in Python. Used Pandas library for Statistical Analysis.  ? Experience in data analysis and machine learning techniques with hands-on-experience on various python libraries like NumPy/Pandas/SciPy.  ? Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django, Pyramid.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Extensive knowledge in relational and non-relational databases MySQL, Cassandra, Mongo db.  ? Worked with MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON.  ? Wrote REST APIs in python for large-scale applications.  ? Experience in building frameworks and automating complex workflows using Python for Test Automation.  ? Good working Experience in Agile (SCRUM) using Rally and TFS, RUP, and Waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  ? Good at automating repetitive work through Shell scripts and Python.  ? Experience in Creation and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in Solaris and Red hat Linux.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Working with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  ? Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) and experience in Agile Software Methodology.  ? Developed RDD's/Data Frames in Spark using Scala and Python and applied several transformation logics to load data from Hadoop Data Lake to Cassandra DB.  ? Working in Spark to read the data from S3 and write it to Cassandra DB using Spark connector.  ? Extensive knowledge in programming with Resilient Distributed Datasets (RDDs) • Very good experience in real time data streaming solutions using Apache Spark/ Spark streaming (Spark SQL, Spark Streaming)  ? Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment and Excel data extracts.  ? Built all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  ? Created the Automation scripts using Python for testing applications as well as the integration of these application (API's &UI's) based on REST calls using Python, phrasing the JSON responses  ? Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  ? Created Data layer in MYSQL.  ? Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages.  ? Migrated applications to the AWS cloud and Involved in DevOps processes for build and deploy systems.  ? Build and lead POCs for tools for internal use to support DevOps best practices using Docker for Container based Virtualization and documenting with MS Word and SnagIt.  ? Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life.  ? Actively involved in each phase of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and experience in Agile Software Methodology. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Fujitsu - Seattle, WA October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Experience in data analysis and machine learning techniques with hands-on-experience on various python libraries like NumPy/Pandas/SciPy.  ? Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and in Python. Used Pandas library for Statistical Analysis.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Created Python script to monitor server load performance in production environment and horizontally scale the servers by deploying new instances.  ? Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Used Restful API's with JSON, XML to extract Network traffic information.  ? Created the Automation scripts using Python for testing applications as well as the integration of these application (API's &UI's) based on REST calls using Python, phrasing the JSON responses.  ? Implemented RESTful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Micro Services architecture.  ? Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and PostgreSQL.  ? Designed and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  ? Integrated application with 3rd party APIs (Google, Facebook, Stripe, PayPal, Google's Natural language API)  ? Creating the API with the Serverless framework, in Python 3.6.  ? Worked on Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  ? Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  ? Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  ? Version control using GitHub.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Experienced in designing and deployment of Hadoop cluster and various Big Data Analytic tools including PIG, HIVE, Spark, Kafka, Oozie, Sqoop, Impala with Horton works distribution.  ? Performed source data transformations using HIVE.  ? Used Spark API over Hortonworks Hadoop YARN to perform analytics on data in Hive.  ? Experience in Hadoop Distributions like Cloudera, Hortonworks, Big Insights, MapR Windows Azure, and Impala.    Environment: Python 3, Django, Jenkins, Linux, HTML, CSS, JSON, Restful Web Services, JavaScript, Serverless framework, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Docker, Hadoop. Sr. Python Developer AT&T - Middletown, NJ September 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Gathering requirements and translating the Business details into Technical design for developing CRITs tool.  ? Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle (SDLC) like design, development, and implementation and testing.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework by implementing MVC architecture.  ? Implemented first-hand the best/worst practices for integrating Micro Services into existing system architecture.  ? Micro Services were being used as a strategy to gradually replace a core monolithic application while still adding business features.  ? Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to deploy Micro Service applications.  ? Involved in conducting trainings to user on interact, filter, sort and customize views on an existing visualization generated thru Tableau desktop.  ? Expertise in writing Hadoop Jobs for analyzing structured and unstructured data using HDFS, Hive, HBase, Pig, Spark, Kafka, Scala, Oozie and Talend ETL.  ? Experienced in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Data Transform Services (DTS) and SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS)  ? Extensive experience in Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) using DTS package in MS SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012 SQL tools like SSIS, Data Transformation Services (DTS)  ? Designing, Developing and deploying various kinds of reports using SSRS using relational data.  ? Good knowledge of Hadoop Architecture and various components such as HDFS, Job Tracker, Task Tracker, Name Node, Data Node, YARN and MapReduce concepts.  ? Experience in working with different kind of MapReduce programs using Hadoop for working with Big Data analysis.  ? Knowledge in performance tuning the Hadoop cluster by gathering and analyzing the existing infrastructure,  ? Experience in working with various Cloudera distributions (CDH4/CDH5), Hortonworks and Amazon EMR Hadoop Distributions.  ? Created Advance connections, join new tables, create & manage Extract and Monitor Queries using SQL Assistant.  ? Defended the dashboard requirements and provided the best practices/approach to perform ETL and publish data to the reports/dashboards.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured complex Apache configuration files.  ? Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security  ? Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and Matplotlib.  ? Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  ? Install and configure IBM HTTP Server, test the installation, map the default application to use the Web Server and regenerate the plug-in configuration file.  ? Install and configure WebSphere Portal v7.0 in Windows and Linux environment.  ? Administer WebSphere Message Broker, and WebSphere MQ Series Administrations in Windows and Linux environment  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  ? Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Used Spark API over Cloudera Hadoop YARN to perform analytics on data in Hive.  ? Used Spark Data frames, Spark -SQL.  ? Developed RDD's/Data Frames in Spark using Scala and Python and applied several transformation logics to load data from Hadoop Data Lake to Cassandra DB.  ? Experience in hive partitioning, bucketing and perform joins on hive tables.  ? Worked in Spark to read the data from Hive and write it to Cassandra using Java.  ? Involved in designing Hive schemas, using performance tuning techniques like partitioning, bucketing  ? Configured Spark streaming to receive real time data from Kafka and store the stream data to HDFS for persistence and Hive for real time reporting.  ? Managing Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as uDeploy, Puppet or custom-built. Designing cloud-hosted solutions, specific AWS product suite experience.  ? Implemented secured way of Centralized login for AWS users using 389 Directory Services (LDAP) and OpenVPN.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  ? Responsible for Plug-in Management, User Management and Backup/Disaster Recovery Plan/Implementation (BDR) on Jenkins.  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7, CherryPy, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, RESTful webservice, MongoDB, MySQL, jQuery SQLite, Docker, Hadoop, Windows 12 Server, AWS (EC2, S3), PyUnit, Jenkins, Selenium Automation Testing. Python Developer SIEMENS - Tarrytown, NY October 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD. Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  ? Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java, C++  ? Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  ? Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Proficient using Python packages such as NumPy, SciPy, Requests, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, Fragment.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Flask, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD)  ? Used ORM to avoid the duplication of data and reduce the cost of maintenance.  ? Configured JMS Modules, SAF Agents, SAF Modules, using Configuration Management Process using Ansible.  ? Setting up continuous integration and formal builds using Jenkins with GIT repository.  ? Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Built front-end SPA using CSHTML, AngularJS, and bootstrap and back-end using ASP.NET MVC and Web API.  ? Helped implement the DAL layer of Web API using Entity Framework 5.  ? Imported data from AWS S3 into Spark Data Frame, Performed transformations and actions on Data Frames.  ? Writing Spark SQL in Scala for extracting data from AWS S3, transform it and load the data to AWS S3.    Environment: Java, Python, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MySQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Jenkins, Unix Shell Scripting, Angular JS, TCP/IP, UDP, SNMP, GIT, Red Hat Linux, AWS, Ansible. Python Developer Verizon Business - Ashburn, VA January 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed high level design documents.  ? Have used Python libraries like NumPy/SciPy, Pandas for market analysis and done some machine learning using Python.  ? Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  ? Implemented front end for third party Web service using jQuery, Html, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  ? Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  ? Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy)  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MySQL.  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  ? Associated with development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the frontend functionality such as selection criteria and developed a GUI for a Java script product.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  Environment: Python 2.7, NumPy, SciPy, Dockers, Pandas, C++, JSON, Oracle DB, MySQL, DB2, PL/SQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django 1.4 Python Developer Gold Stone Technologies Pvt Ltd January 2012 to December 2012 Designed and developed components using Python. Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulated data.  ? Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL and creating efficient system.  ? Designed and Developed UI using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, Java Script and jQuery.  ? Used Java Script libraries like jQuery UI, DataGrid, jscolor, high charts.  ? Developed the presentation layer HTML, JSP, CSS and DHTML.  ? Developed widgets for GUI using PyGtk modules of python.  ? Used Django to develop web-based application and deploy it using Jenkins.  ? Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  ? Using Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  ? Used Python and Django for creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  ? Used python Data structures like sqlite3, dictionaries, and tuples.  ? Used several Python libraries like NumPy, Pandas and Matplotlib.  ? Helped with the migration from the old server to Jira database with Python scripts for transferring and verifying the information  ? Supported Apache Tomcat Web server on Linux Platform.  ? Used RAD 7.0 for implementing Static and Dynamic web services for consuming and providing services related to the business.  ? Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Serving using AJAX, JSON, and XML.    Environment:  Python, RAD 7.0, C++, Ajax, HTML Restful API, MySQL, Django, JSON, Panda, Java, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, SVN, Jenkins, Jira, UNIX, Linux, JSON, AJAX. software Developer Honeywell - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Dealt with administrating a server system using a mobile device.  ? Involved in developing code, utilizing the object-oriented design principles, Unit and Integration Testing and Developed and maintained Perl/Ant scripts for build and release tasks.  ? Was part of writing SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, involved in modifications to the existing database structure  ? Expertise SVN as the version control tool for the Code to commit and fetch.  ? Used Core Java and J2EE for developments and Modified ANT scripts to build the JAR, Classes.  ? Involved in editing the existing ANT (Build.XML) files in case of errors or changes in the project requirements and Developed remote network administration application for the R&D department.  ? Worked with the design team for project structure.  ? Involved in gathering initial software requirements for the application.  ? Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  ? Developed the applications using Java, J2EE, and JDBC.  ? Developed executable Java code to process the work flows.  ? Taken care of complete Java multi-threading part in back end components.  ? Involved in developing Login, Registration, Logout, Listeners, jsp's.  ? Wrote JavaScript for client-side validation.  ? Designed and developed the original prototype for a highly-complex, interactive, graphical, web user-interface using standards-compliant JavaScript.  ? Involved in developing JS for the jsp pages developed.  Environment: UNIX, JUnit, SVN, Java, Jenkins, Java/J2EE, REST Services SVN, GIT, Apache Maven, Tomcat, Spring Framework, SOAP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, Bootstrap, XML. MYSQL, DNS, Linux, Windows. Skills LINUX (8 years), MYSQL (8 years), JAVA (8 years), SQL (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C, C++, Python, JavaScript, PHP, XML, JAVA, SQL  SCM Tools Subversion, Perforce, Jenkins/Hudson, Sonar, Jira, TFS, Confluence, Clear Case, GIT, GitHub.  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Make    Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows, DOS, VMware  Protocols  OSI Reference Model, IPv4 and IPv6 addressing and subnetting, Ethernet LAN, TCP/IP, DNS, HTTP, NFS, SSL, SSH, UDP, switches, routing concepts, virtual network concepts including VLANs, TCP/IP stack for virtualization, IPVP4, IPV6, FTP, Intranet    Database PostgreSQL, MS Access, SQL Server, MYSQL and Sybase, Oracle, DB2, JDBC, ODBC  Application Servers Web logic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, Apache tomcat5.5, IIS  Issue Tracking Tools ATLASSIAN JIRA, BUGZILLA, Mantis, Service Now.  Delivery Tools Saltstack, Chef & Puppet