Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - TDS (Telephone and Data Systems Inc) Madison, WI Enthusiastic developer with ~6 years of professional hands-on experience creating cutting-edge web applications seeking challenging employment. Identifies innovative ways to simplify complex processes. Provides quality code for any software in languages including Python, Java using Django, Flask and Spring MVC-Hibernate framework.    Proficiency  ? Expertise in overall SDLC Life cycle starting from collecting Business Requirements, Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Deployment and reporting the whole life cycle utilizing different strategies. Included in activities utilizing Waterfall and Agile.  ? Expertise in Object Modeling with Use Cases, Sequence, Activity and Class Diagrams using UML with Open Model Sphere and Microsoft Visio.  ? Expertise in Application Development with Object Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD).  ? Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  ? Expertise in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  ? Experienced in using HTML, HTML5, XML, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, and AJAX to deliver forefront user interfaces and components.  ? Very solid involvement in writing API's and Web Services in Python.  ? Familiar with JSON and XML based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Familiar with several ORM libraries in Python such as Django's ORM and SQLAlchemy,  ? Testing a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using tools such as PyLint, PyChecker and PyFlakes.  ? Good in using Unit Testing, Incremental Testing, Load Testing.  ? Experienced in writing Stored Procedures, Cursors, Functions and performed data analysis using PL/SQL.  ? Good experienced in process, validate, parse, and extract data from .xml file  ? Expertise in programming with Python IDE's like PyCharm and Java IDE's like Eclipse and Netbeans along with Sublime Text and Komodo edit.  ? Have an experience to use Adobe Flash, SVN, Eclipse, MS Visio, GITHUB and CVS  ? Proficient in database design and management using MySQL, Oracle 10g, PostgreSQL, MongoDB.  ? Use JIRA tool which helps to follow Agile Methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer TDS (Telephone and Data Systems Inc) Telecom Client - Madison, WI January 2017 to Present TDS is the seventh-largest local-exchange-carrier in the U.S and offers telephone, broadband Internet and television services to customers in more than a hundred rural communities.    The Network Management System (NMS) portion of the Broadband Diagnostic Engine (BDE) is responsible for gathering all configuration and status data from the network. NMS is also implement the interactive/"write" (e.g. reboot modem) to the network operations that BDE requires.    Responsibilities:  ? Work with application teams and stakeholders to determine and design services needed to support a growing audio platform.  ? Develop these services using the best technology for each Design and develop the APIs for each services, working with application terms and other services team member.  ? Made versatile and faster APIs using Postman.  ? Outlined and created transactions and persistence layers to insert/retrieve/modify information for application functionalities utilizing Django, Flask, XML, JSON, Oracle, MongoDB , Stored Procedures.  ? Designed and developed data management system using Oracle and Django.  ? Develop, maintain and support API / web services and data integrations, focusing on quality, re-usability, stability, performance, security, automation and related concerns.  ? Implemented HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Semantic-UI to make UI screens effortlessly understandable by the clients.  ? Used RabbitMQ to implement the Advanced Message Queuing Protocol.  ? Written shell scripting for automation.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django/Flask modules to convey certain format of data.  ? Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  ? Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  ? Handled RESTful services with the help of python library URLLIB2.  ? Used Pep-8 standards for Python code.  ? Refactored and Optimized the existing code.  ? Used JIRA for tracking and updating the project issues.  ? Used the Python's modules like Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, Beautiful Soup, PyGtk to add more functionality in existing code.  ? Created unit test/Pytest test framework for working/new code.  ? Collaborate full stack project on Agile methodology  ? Collaborate with Artists and Engineers to design and implement end to end solutions.  ? Ensured quality by versioning with SVN and GITLab.    Environment: - Python, Django, Flask, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Semantic-UI, Amazon (AWS, EC2, S3), Oracle, JIRA, Linux, Shell Scripting, GITLab, SVN, RabbitMQ. Python Developer Group1200 Media - Flower Mound, TX July 2015 to December 2016 Group 1200 Media is a next-generation independent studio engaged in multiple aspects of digital and physical entertainment, delivering young adults the content and products they want, when and where they want it.    The project is to analyze, design, develop, implement and maintain the API and integration solutions required to support and facilitate media partners' growth.    Responsibilities:  ? Composed python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  ? Develop, maintain and support API / web services and data integrations, focusing on quality, re-usability, stability, performance, security, automation and related concerns.  ? Implemented HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS to make UI screens effortlessly understandable by the clients.  ? Written shell scripting for automation.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to convey certain format of data.  ? Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  ? Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  ? Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using python scripts.  ? Handled RESTful services with the help of python library URLLIBS.  ? Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  ? Used JIRA for tracking and updating the project issues.  ? Used the Python's modules like numpy, matplotlib, plotly and many more for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  ? Created regression test framework for working/new code.  ? Collaborate with Artists and Engineers to design and implement end to end solutions.  ? Ensured quality by versioning with GIT.    Environment: - Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Amazon (AWS, EC2, S3), Postman, MySQL, PostgreSQL, JIRA, Linux, Shell Scripting, GIT. Python Developer North Western Mutual - Milwaukee, WI August 2014 to June 2015 North Western Mutual is the health insurance company offering high quality insurance at a competitive price and has led the change towards better and more consumer-focused health care.    Worked on python application which consisted of operationalizing security solutions to ensure that only actionable data are escalated as security events.    Responsibilities:  ? Develop and maintain standard operating procedures to reflect day-to-day security operations.  ? Created script in Python for calling REST APIs.  ? REST API development via Django REST Framework.  ? Overrode Django Rest Framework internals to allow for more dynamic routing.  ? Created authorization scheme which enforced limitations on API clients.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Django.  ? Used SOAP and RESTful API for information extraction  ? Deployed the application on cloud using AWS.  ? Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  ? Actively hunting for and dissecting previously unidentified threats in the environment.  ? Collaborate full stack project on Waterfall methodology.  ? Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy. Used Git to collaborate with other developers.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.    Environment: - AJEX, REST, HTTP, JSON, Linux Shell scripting, MySQL, Sublime Text, web services, XHTML, PostgreSQL, Amazon EC2, Django Python Developer SPLUNK - San Francisco, CA January 2013 to June 2014 SPLUNK is an American multinational corporation, that produces software for searching, monitoring, and analysing machine-generated big data, via a web-style interface.    Worked with a team of developers to build complex web applications from wireframe to completion. Utilized existing contributed modules and built custom modules using Python, Django, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  Responsibilities:    ? Involved in transferring old data from various sources like flat files, MS Access, and Excel into MS SQL Server 2005 using DTS Packages.  ? Used Django framework to develop entire frontend and backend modules in Python.  ? Used JavaScript, JQuery and Anuglar JS for Client Side validations  ? Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for automation of testing jobs.  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.    Environment: - Python 2.7, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, REST/SOAP web service, AWS, Git, Linux Python Developer ABCO Technology - Los Angeles, CA March 2012 to December 2012 ABCO Technology is a Los Angeles Computer Training center with ACCSC accreditation. It has a vocational career training in computers and information technology certifications.  Working on a secure and collaborative development environment that connects financial department payment system. Establish a single source of the truth for product information and processes.  Responsibilities:    ? Firmly included in execution assessment and User Acceptance Test.  ? Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  ? Write ORMs query for search database from different DB and for generate different reports.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal finance team.  ? Using the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  ? Write unit test cases with individually and in suits using pyunit.  ? Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Host all codes in Github repositories.    Environment: - Flask, Python, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, Git, Agile, Scrum. Java Developer Skyward Technologies Pvt Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat August 2010 to February 2012 Skyward Technologies Pvt Ltd is a Software company which has extensive experience from application development to Design and Web portal development, Development of custom software and SEO services.    This project is for creating online shopping application for all clients. This involves modules like Customer, product, shopping list, shopping cart, checkout, payment, and search, recipes, promotions, homepage and store locator.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed, built, and maintained efficient, reusable, and reliable Java code.  ? Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture Using Spring Framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance.  ? Used JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, EJB and XML for development and deployment of the application.  ? Developed enterprise scale Web applications, JSPs and EJBs using WSAD 5.0.  ? Developed framework for JUnit test cases.  ? Deployed the application on Tomcat server.  ? Help maintain code quality, organization, and automatization.  ? Solid understanding of object-oriented programming.  ? Experienced with both external and embedded databases.  ? Had a good experience with complex database queries.  ? Involved in Deployment and bug fixes.    Environment: - Java, Spring, MVC, JSP, HTML, CSS, MySQL, Eclipse, NetBeans, J2EE, Json and JavaScript, Bootstrap, Google Maps API Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Gujarat Technological University Skills JSON (5 years), LINUX (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), DJANGO (4 years) Links https://github.com/dhrumil44 Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages: Python, C/C++, Java, JavaScript, Android  Frameworks: Django, Flask, SpringMVC, Hibernate  Web Technologies: Servlet, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, JQuery, AJAX  Web Services: SOAP, WSDL, REST  Databases: MYSQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, SQL Server MS ACCESS, Elastic Search  Tools: Sublime Text, PyCharm, ECLIPSE IDE, NETBEANS, Android Studio, MS Visio  Platforms: Windows, Linux, Mac OS X, VM  Software Management: GitHub, SVN, Maven, Gradle