Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Intuit Mountain View Acres, CA • Over 7 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Professionally Experienced in Object Oriented Deign and Programming Concept.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python 3.1x/2.7/2.6, Django 1.7/1.9, CSS, HTML, JavaScript  • Understanding of Python best Practices (PEP-8).  • Extensive knowledge in Python and Shell Scripting.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and MVC Struts.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Java, HTML, Angular.js, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Good Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Front end development experience using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience with computer programming in R and Python.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as SVN and GIT.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views and triggers.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Developmental experience on Windows 2000/XP, UNIX and Linux platforms  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels.  • Highly motivated, result oriented professional with a short learning curve and strong communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Intuit - Mountain View, CA August 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Database modelling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Python.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Created entire application using Python, Django and MySQL.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked with Open stack Command-line client.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into CSS, complex Flash integration.  • Involved in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, and Node.js.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS, JSON and JavaScript.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.    Environment: Python 3.1, PyQuery, PyQt, Django, Angular.js, Open Stack, HTML, Java Script, Node.js, DOM, JSON, MySQL, Git, Python Linux, Active Admin, Amazon Web Services, GitHub, Photoshop, Flash, Windows and Linux. Python Developer GE Energy - Waukesha, WI June 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Involved in Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Personal management, error/exception management etc.).  • Used Web Services to get travel destination data and rates.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, PyQuery, AWS, JSOM, REST, Angular.js, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, MVC, DOM, PHP, Flex, C++, XML, SOAP, GitHub, MYSQL, Cassandra, Windows and UNIX. Python Developer Safeway Inc - Pleasanton, CA April 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked alone on the project from gather requirement developing the entire application, with help from other analyst.  • Database modelling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Python.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Implemented an agile work flow for continuous integration and testing of applications using Rally, Fitness, Jenkins and Subversion.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Involved in RSpec, Git, Object-oriented programming, MySQL, JavaScript, Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance. Created methods for cross application use using the Class Builder and Object Oriented programming.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Maintaining strict version control using Git, with an understanding of what tasks require branching and which can be done in dev.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.    Environment: Python, Open Stack, Django, AWS, Jenkins, MySQL, Git, agile and Windows. Python Developer Intralinks Holdings Inc - New York, NY November 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, PyQt, Java, MySQL, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, and Linux. Python Developer Hexaware Technologies Limited July 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and Javascript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  • Use Git for version control.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Performed Unit and system testing  • Trained users and did production support    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Software Developer Vision InfoTech Pvt Ltd March 2009 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Front-End development using C#, HTML and CSS.  • Created UI using HTML CSS and JavaScript's.  • Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic  • Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.    Environment: C++, DOM, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Shell Scripting, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.1x,2.7/2.4, Shell Script, Perl, R, SQL  Python Framework Django 1.7, Webapp2, Flask  Databases MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, IIS, WebLogic, Tomcat, WebSphere    Operating Systems Linux/Unix, Windows 2000/XP/2003/Vista