Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - IBM • Over 6 years of experience as an Software developer and design using Python, Django, Angular JS, Node JS, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Java, MySQL, Oracle PL/SQL, Postgres.  • Hands on experience in designing, developing, deploying, testing and implementing various stand alone and client-server architectures-based enterprise application software on different domains.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Developed Web-based applications using Django, Flask, Python, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, RESTful.  • Proficient with various Python libraries like SciPy, NumPy, Matplotlib, Panda to enhance the performance throughout the SDLC.  • Hands on experience programming with C++, Python, Django and Ajax technologies.  • Well versed in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Familiar with JSON based REST, SOAP, and Amazon Web Services.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platformsobject-oriented programs (OOPs), database design and agile methodologies.  • Successfully migrated Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and MVT framework like django  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, Postgre SQL and MySQL databases.  • Knowledge in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool)  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, XML, Ajax, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  Having very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python.  • Experience with Jenkins and Enterprise GitHub.  • Good knowledge of version control software - CVS, GitHub.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in Database Administration, development, design, maintenance and production support of relational databases, business applications, new server setup, MySQL Server installation, upgrade, migration.  • Analytical, problem-solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast consistent team player with excellent communication skills.  • Strong independent learning ability, easily adaptable to different development environments, collaborative, highly motivated and dedicated to delivering quality software.  • Authorized to work in United States for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer IBM - Austin, TX November 2017 to Present • Model View Component (MVC) architecture implemented for development of the project and used Flask Rest Framework to develop REST API.  • Created organized responsive design and developed user interaction screens using Angular, Flask, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Used different python libraries like SciPy, NumPy, and Pandas to create models for predictive analysis.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Wrote python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Used PyUnit, the python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Experience with unit testing/ test driven development (TDD)  • Experience in consuming web services (REST) with python programming language.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Flask Web Framework.  • Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Flask MVC.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM,  • Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Microweb Services.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Experience in UNIX environment in developing the application and familiar with all of its commands.  • Worked on several python packages.  • Implemented REST APIs using Python and Flask framework.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Flask, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS and Jquery.    Environment: Python, Flask restplus, NOSQL, PL/SQL, GIT, Unit Test Linux, REST APIs, CVS, SOAP, RabbitMQ, Agile, CouchDB, MongoDB, PyTest, Kubernetes, Docker, Jira, MacOS Sr. Python Developer Kindred Health - Louisville, KY July 2016 to October 2017 Description: Kindred Healthcare Incorporated is a healthcare services company that operates hospitals, nursing centers, and contract rehabilitation services across the United States. Kindred is the largest diversified post-acute healthcare provider in the U.S  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for using the best technologies to add features to the existing system and services.  • Involved in all aspects of the development process from product inception to scaling in production.  • Accountable for driving software development best practices for the team and also mentoring and developing junior engineers.  • Working in collaboration with project managers and higher management in cross-functional teams within Sales and Account Management, to understand business requirements and develop efficient, elegant approaches to their implementation.  • Writing REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework.  • Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  • Correspondingly involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Involvement in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the Postgre SQL database.  • Assisted the development team in sending the correct data via query strings using Postgre SQL as the back-end for storing data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Responsible for configuring NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and MongoDB to for increasing compatibility with Django.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, NOSQL, PL/SQL, GIT, SVN, Unit Test Linux, REST APIs, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB, Windows. Python Developer TracFone - Miami, FL August 2015 to June 2016 Description: TracFone Wireless, Inc. is a prepaid mobile virtual network operator in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the US Virgin Islands. TracFone Wireless is a subsidiary of Mexico's largest telecommunications company América Móvil, and offers products and services under multiple brands.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build Spring MVC Architecture with Angular JS.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Wrote and executed various RDBMS, MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Designed and Implemented Server Build Automation & Server Decommissioning Automation  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web-based applications.  • Worked on MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and De-normalization.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, web application and automation testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML-5, CSS-3, XML, MySQL, JIRA, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, RDBMS, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer AVINEON - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to May 2015 Description: Avineon is a global technology company specializing in information technology, geospatial, and engineering services for government and private industry.  We deliver total system solutions that provide outstanding value by applying our innovative approaches, skilled personnel, and disciplined processes.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers. Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the frontend functionality such as selection criteria Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer CMC Hyderabad - Hyderabad November 2013 to December 2014 Description: CMC Limited is an information technology services, consulting and software company. Responsible for Business development, Solution design, and Managing service partners, Lead generation, Proposal development, and Develop BOM & SOW on Site Meeting, BOM, Managing POCs, and Training Delivery. Market Intelligence, Customer Acquisition, developing new products and solutions, Development using Python/Django, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, Database modeling using PostgreSQL.  Responsibilities:  Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes.  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD. Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java, C++.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Debugging and testing of the applications & finetuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Java Developer Cynet Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to October 2013 Description: We are a team of technical visionaries who joined forces to form a company that would gather the best and brightest talent in the world. The company uses this talent to help other organizations fulfill their technological dreams and goals and make them a reality. Welcome to Cynet Systems Inc. Responsibilities:  • Created prototypes in HTML, JavaScript, andCSS for different modules such as login, Client Information etc.  • Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation, management, and deployment of full Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) of Project.  • Developed Web UI involving HTML, CSS, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Developed various interface screens using Web Forms, JSP and HTMLcontrol for Client-Server interaction.  • Involved in Requirements gathering phase of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) with Business Analyst.  • Designed, developed and updated User Interface WebForms using CSS, Dreamweaver, andJavaScript.  • Creating rapid prototypes of interfaces to be used as blueprints for technical development.  • An elegant implementation of page designs in standards-compliant HTML and CSS.  • Have created data fix script to fix the data issue in a production environment.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front-end/user interface features in the application.  • Developed PL/SQL triggers and master tables for the automatic creation of primary keys.  • Setup JDBC connectivity and databases.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, MySQL, AJAX, XML, UNIX. Education Master's in Information technology Wilmington University 2017 Skills MYSQL (6 years), SQL (6 years), PL/SQL (5 years), HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years) Additional Information Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Ubuntu, Solaris, Windows and MacOS  Programming Languages Python, PL/SQL, Java, CSS, HTML, JavaScript  Databases Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server and PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Tools PyCharm, PL/SQL Developer, Spyder, Visual Studio  Message Broker RabbitMQ, IBM MQ  Web Server Apache Webserver  Defect Tracking JIRA and VersionOne  Cloud services AWS, Microsoft Azure