Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Jersey City, NJ • Over 7+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django and C++.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, objects oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and MVC Struts.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Java, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django.  • Experienced with Python frameworks like Webapp2 and, Flask.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, QT, C++, XML, CSS, JSON, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Sound Knowledge on RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle, SQL Server 2008, MYSQL.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Value Options Inc - Norfolk, VA December 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Worked with Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code  optimization.  • Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Involved in Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning.  • Built efficient Angular.js backend for client web application.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Performed QA testing on the application.    Environment: Python, Django, PyQT, Panda API, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Angular.js, Flex, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GITHub, MYSQL, Cassandra, Jira, agile. Python Developer First National Bank - Houston, TX October 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • I have used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python, Django, Panda API, JSON, PHP, Flash, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, AWS, PyUnit, XML, SOAP, GitHub, Jira, Agile, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Python Developer MVP Healthcare - Rochester, NY January 2013 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, Couchbase Python SDK, PyQt, Java, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Linux. Python Developer Fidelity Investments - Salt Lake City, UT November 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic.  • Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.    Environment: Python, DOM, HTML, CSS, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer Agilent Technology International Pvt. Ltd April 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Application architecture designed as per the requirements using spring framework.  • Requirement Analysis and Estimation of project timelines.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Generated Pdf daily and Monthly statements using Aspose PDF Kit.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  • Wrote SQL Queries, Store Procedures, Triggers and functions in MySQL Databases.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Coordinate with SMEs, other architects, and senior technical staff to identify client's needs, document assumptions, and build-out new requirements and move code through user acceptance testing.    Environment: Python, C++, HTML, CSS, TDD, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Software Developer Innovative Solutions - IN September 2008 to March 2010 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Designed and developed components using Java/J2EE.  • Created UI using HTML CSS and JavaScript's.  • Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic  • Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle 9i.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.    Environment: JAVA, DOM, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Shell Scripting, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows. Education Bachelor of Science in Computers Andhra University Skills Technical Skills: Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, Shell Script, Perl, SQL Python Framework Django 1.6, Webapp2, Flask Databases MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS Web servers Apache, IIS Operating Systems Linux/Unix, Windows 2000/XP/2003/Vista (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django 1.6, Webapp2, Flask  Databases MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, IIS    Operating Systems Linux/Unix, Windows 2000/XP/2003/Vista