Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - NVIDIA Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer NVIDIA - Austin, TX April 2017 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developed and tested many features in an Agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Provide daily reports to the development team and the manager, participate in both the design and development phase.  • Participated in Daily stand-up meetings and provided status on work progress  • Wrote queries on existing schema for analysis.  • Created database using MySQL and wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Implemented AngularJS controllers to maintain each view data  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML, Angular JS and Node JS.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Working in a team of developers to build and deploy Flask, Linux, and AWS.  • Involved in maintaining and editing Python scripts for application deployment automation  • Worked on various Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Anaconda Spyder.  • Created, activated and programmed in Anaconda environment. Wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Created Python scripts used to generate reports.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Create, activate and program in Anaconda environment  • Used Perforce Visual Client P4V for version control  • Applied HTML, HTML5, Java scripting and CSS for generating daily reports.  • Used the Numpy, Anaconda and Keras module.  • Developed automatic generated reports using python and SQL.  • Design and implement the python scripts based on the requirement.  • Analyze the data using the Daily reports and work based on the requirement and targets, which discussed in the stand-up meetings.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many python bug fixes.  • Created Python scripts for data access and analysis to aid in process and system monitoring.  • Implement code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  Environment: python 3.5/3.6, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Angular.Js, JSON, Django, Java scripting, Data Warehouse, Linux, perforce (P4V), XML, UNIX, Keras, NumPy, Matplotlib, Anaconda, Java Sr. Python Developer eBay Enterprise - Boston, MA May 2016 to March 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the frontend functionality such as selection criteria,  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wire shark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GIT Hub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX Python Developer Comcast - Greenwood Village, CO September 2014 to April 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Created Python Scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, Data Feeds, XLS, and FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Rewrote existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python Scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Designed & developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using My SQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to Git Hub.  • Built the development environment with JIRA.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Java, Angular.js, Bootstrap, AWS, Bash, PyQt, XML, Shell Scripting, My SQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jenkins, Apache Web Server, Linux Python Developer Pay Pal - San Jose, CA October 2013 to September 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Design and develop the ETL- Mappings for data exception and reloading processes.  • Worked with XSD and XML files generation through ETL process.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and developed data management system using My SQL. Built application logic using Python 2.6.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Used AngularJS to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Used Python to extract information from XML files.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MySQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache Web Server Python Developer GE Energy - Waukesha, WI October 2012 to September 2013 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developed Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Handled Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling and process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Java script for front end applications.  • Involved in testing REST Full API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.  • Designed and developed data management system using My SQL.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  Environment: Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, My SQL, JSON, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Agile, RESTful, UNIX and Windows Program Analyst Bitra Net Pvt. Ltd November 2010 to August 2012 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrote the existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Wrote Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined function.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Used JQuery for all client side Java script manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django Java Developer Apollo Health, India - IN June 2009 to October 2010 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Programmed the components using C/C++.  • Software release to internal clients by compiling the code into C/C++ libraries and implementing the APIs.  • Created UI using HTML CSS and Java script.  • Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic.  • Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.  Environment: C, C++, HTML, CSS, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, JDBC, PVCS, Oracle, Linux and Windows Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science JNT University Skills AJAX (7 years), Django (7 years), HTML (8 years), Java (7 years), JavaScript (8 years) Links http://www.montage.global Additional Information • IT Professional with 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask and C++.  • Strong experience on Python, Django, CSS, HTML, and jQuery, XML, AJAX and JSON for developing web applications.  • Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Good experience in data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts in a Python based environment.  • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Experience in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache and Siebel.  • Experience in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, backbone.js, jQuery and Node.js.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experience in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Java, HTML, XML, KML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  • Experience in creating Open stack services for Identity, Compute, Image Service, Block Storage, Networking (Neutron, Keystone).  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experience in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Good Knowledge on deploying app using AWS Cloud Formation and good understanding on AWS Lambda.  • Experience in Python's modules like NumPy and Matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with Continuous Integration and automation by using Jenkins  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.    Technical Competencies:    Languages: Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework: Django 1.3/1.4, ETL Frameworks  Databases: MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g, PL SQL,  Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools: Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers: Apache, IIS  Operating systems: Linux/Unix, Windows NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista