Job Seeker Work Experience MetroBikes September 2018 to Present Description  MetroBikes is a ride sharing app. We can share rides both on 2 and 4 wheeler vehicles also called car pooling or bike pooling. The app connects people travelling on same route. We can offer ride to people seeking rides and also find rides offered by others. The riders share the cost.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Analyzed and gathered business requirements specifications by interacting with client and understanding business requirement specification documents.  • Developing mobile backend API's Using Python/Flask/Postgres  • Creating database schema for Postgres Database and perform DB operations  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub  • Deployed the project into AWS using GIT version control system.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS  • Regular interaction with developers at different locations in resolving issues successfully.  • Reporting Issues using Excel to senior members in the team  Project #2 Python/Flask Developer TechJini Solutions Pvt. Ltd - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN April 2017 to July 2018 Description  ClinSharp is a collection, Integrated and Validation of Clinical Data. Which includes several data models like data design, Data collection, Data Entry, Data validation, Data Cleanup, Data analysis, data reporting and Data Presentation. During the clinical trial, The Investigators collect data on the patient's health for a defined time period. This data is sent to the trail sponser, Who then analyses the pooled data using statistical analysis.    Responsibilities  • Implementing controllers using flask frame work  • Developing API's python/flask/mysql  • Assisted engineering team to ensure efficient and correct implementation.  • Worked with product management and business roles in team to realize best ways to address user needs and strategic direction.  • Integrating modules and performing unit testing  • Performed targeted user research to analyze customer requirements together with product management.    Project #1 Python Developer TechJini Solutions Pvt. Ltd - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN December 2015 to February 2017 Description  Now a Days People Ordering food Online, And Restaurant management has been facing a lot of issues handling the delivery of food orders efficiently. So far it has all been done manually. An Order is received at a store, the store manager calls a delivery support center for a delivery boy, a delivery boy is assigned, who then shows up and delivers the order.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Developing Controllers using django framework  • Designed APIs to retrieve the list of new tasks and the task status history.  • Creating a Data models for the app  • Developing the static pages using Bootstrap and CSS  • Integrating modules and performing unit testing  • Creating database schema for sqlite Database and perform DB operations  • Created a Git repository and added the project to BitBucket Additional Information • Hands on Experience developing mobile API's Using Python/Flask  • Good expertise in object-oriented python application development  • Developed backend of the application using the flask framework  • In-depth knowledge of designing, coding and testing mobile/web based applications.  • Worked on applications and developed them with JSON(Flask, Python).  • Proficient in Python, Django and Flask Framework  • Exceptional knowledge on J2SE, MySQL and Postgres  • Good knowledge on web development applications on flask, django, json, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap  • Deep understanding of HTTP methods  • Experienced in working with various python Integrated Development Environment like IDLE, PyCharm, VSC, Spyder and Sublime Text.  • Experienced in maintaining various version controls systems such as GIT and Source Tree  • Exceptional ability to work in a fast paced environment  • Zeal to learn New Technologies.    Technical Skills  Frameworks: Django, Flask  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.  Programming Languages: Python, Core Java, SQL, Mysql  Developer Tools: PyCharm, Spyder Sublime Text, Apache Tomcat.  Cloud Platforms: Amazon EC2    Project #3    TechJini Solutions Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore  Python/Flask developer