Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Walmart San Bruno, CA • Professional 8 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask and C++.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache and Siebel.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, backbone.js, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experience in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) Framework, JQuery, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites.  • Knowledge in UX design, UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4, Adobe Fireworks CS3 and Adobe Illustrator CS3. Dreamweaver, Notepad++.  • Experienced in Meteor web framework written using Angular.JS 2.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in creating Open stack services for Identity, Compute, Image Service, Block Storage, Networking (Neutron, Keystone).  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in Python's modules numpy, matplotlibetc for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, Java Script and JQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing..  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu),SSH, Flask/Django  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Walmart - San Bruno, CA January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Involved in writing unit test cases for the functionalities using Nose Test.  • Wrote Automation Test cases using Robot Framework.  • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Assisted with the addition of Hadoop processing to the IT infrastructure.  • Implementing customer data collection with PySpark/Hadoop analytics.  • Developed Hadoop integrations for data ingestion, data mapping and data processing.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection Angular.JS 2.  • Involved in developing the Angular.JS Meteor framework for the Single Page Application development.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and proxy.  • Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  • Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  • Involved in presenting demos to the clients and also reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager.  • Involved in assigning the tasks to the development team.  • Involved in handling the developing team and mentoring the junior developers.  • Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Involved in deploying the code into Amazon Web Server using BOTO API.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.7, Meteor Framework , Angular.JS 2,Java Script, Coffee Scripting, LESS, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, PySpark, Hadoop Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. Python Developer Paypal - Timonium, MD May 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria,  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer First Data July 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, DataFeeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Java, Angular.js, Bootstrap, AWS, Bash, PyQt, XML, Shell Scripting, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jenkins, Apache Web Server, Linux. Python Developer eBay Enterprise - King of Prussia, PA February 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.6.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Used Python to extract information from XML files.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP1.1, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Developer GE Energy - Waukesha, WI November 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Done Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling and process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Involved in testing RESTFull API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  Environment: Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, JSON, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, agile, Restfull, UNIX and Windows. Program Analyst BitraNet Pvt. Ltd July 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined function.  • I have also used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Used JQuery for all client side Java script manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django Software Developer Softunique Info Solutions - Bangalore, Karnataka May 2008 to June 2009 Responsibilities:  Description: SalesLogix is the platform of choice for companies strategically focused on customer engagements. Robust functionality, deep integration, and high flexibility in how the companies use and deploy their solution result in a solution that works the way they need it to. SalesLogix provides Rich customer profiles and sales productivity tools which help users identify opportunities and streamline sales activities. Simultaneously, sales management tools, analytics, and proactive alerts drive accurate forecasting as well as effective team and territory management.  Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML  documents.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Issues pertaining to Real time data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  Environment: Python, Java Script, Matplotlib, Plotly, HTML, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, Oracle, MySQL, Bootstrap, SOAP Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, SVN, Linux, Eclipse. Skills Apache (9 years), Django (9 years), HTML (9 years), JQuery (9 years), MySQL (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks Django, Flask, SOAP and CSS Bootstrap  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, XML, XSTL, JavaScript, JDBC, JQuery, JSON  Programming Languages Python, Java, OOPS concepts, Matlab/simulink  Databases MySQL, PL/SQL, Sqlite3, MongoDB and Cassandra  IDE's/ Development Tools Visual studio, Eclipse, IDLE, Pycharm and Sublime Text  Web servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere 6.1, JBoss 7, WebLogic 8.0  Operating systems Windows, Mac OS X  Deployment Tools Jenkins  Version Control GitHub, Bitbucket, CVS  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA