Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - AT&T • Over 7+ years of IT experience in developing and deploying projects with Python, Java/J2EE and frameworks such as Django/Flask using MySQL, HTML, JavaScript, MVC-AJAX.  • Experienced in developing web-based application using Python2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular JS, C++, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in Object-Oriented design and coding.  • Good knowledge of various Design Patterns, Multi-threading, Collections and UML concepts by usage in python and java.  • Strong Experience in web-based UI design and interface development using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQUERY, AJAX and JSON.  • Worked on front end frame works like Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Worked on several python packages like NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Beautiful Soup, Urllib2, Pandas and CSV.  • Experience in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Server-side application like Django. Flask and Pyramid for developing web applications.  • Worked on Libraries such as Pyjamas and Jython.  • Hands-on experience in building web and enterprise applications in various domains like Health, Banking/Financial Services, Insurance, Public Sector, and Software Service verticals.  • Worked on automation using the Python scripting language, Git on Cygwin32 and XML.  • Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Developed Dimensional logical and physical data models using Toad Data Modeler.  • Developed ETL code using Oracle10.2.1, PL/SQL stored procedures and functions to filter and migrate an entire operating companies Data Warehouse. Over tables of data were migrated include Partitioned Tables as large as 50 Gigabytes.  • Experience in AWS and Redshift.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Proficient in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, Notepad++ and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  • Professional in designing and maintaining complex SQL queries and developing PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL, Oracle and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience configuring and developing with different Database servers including MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle and Mongo Db.  • Experience in working with Relational DB (RDBMS) like SQLite, MYSQL, Workbench, PostgreSQL and No-SQL database MongoDB for database connectivity.  • Experience in Splunk dashboard creating, App development, validation.  • Relevant experience with Splunk SDK for Python, and JavaScript for using splunk as a middle ware tool.  • Experience in various stage of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) includes requirements, analysis, design, development, deployment and testing of an application for business outputs.  • Worked with Agile-based SDLC (Scrum) and Waterfall software development life cycle.  • Familiar with Cross Browser Testing and Debugging.  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results. Work Experience Python Developer AT&T - Bothell, WA November 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Development of test cases and execution of Manual and Automated Test cases for Tablets and Mobiles.  • Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL.  • Working on multiple projects such as development of functionality Test cases for Portable devices and Web development in Media Validation Team.  • Designed the front-end web pages using HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and AJAX. Used CSS for better appearance.  • Writing templates for front end pages where we include HTML pages and JavaScript files.  • Used Python to extract weekly availability information from XML files using underscore JS.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework.  • Performing Functional testing, regression testing, integration testing, and communication testing.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • A Django dashboard with a custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  • Regular interaction with developers at different locations in resolving issues successfully.  • Found critical bugs in the firmware and helped other teams in making the software stable.  • Migration of Test Content to Automation Tool using Python and XML.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connectors and MySQL package.  • Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Worked on migrating data to Amazons AWS. Used AWS products like EC2, RDS, Log Monitor, Lambda, REST API Gateway etc.  • Development of Media OS based Validation test content in ACS (Automation) using Python and XML.  • Experience in UNIX environment in developing the application and familiar with all of its commands.  • Wrote modules in Python to connect to MongoDB with PyMongo and doing CRUD operations with MongoDB.  • Used Git and JIRA for code submissions and review process.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA(Agile)  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Analyses and improves application efficiency by optimizing queries and caching contents for Django  • Managed code versioning with GitHub and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Execute Display Controller regression tests with every firmware build release.  • Reporting Issues using Excel to senior members in the team.    Environment: Python 3.4, Django, Couchbase Python SDK, PyQt, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, CSS, AJAX, ITP, MySQL, XML, Git (Cygwin32), ADB, Logic Analyzer, Apache Webserver. Python Developer Nike - Portland, OR August 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed GUI using Django and Python for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features with Python code for a web browser.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used and Python Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Wrote scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib.  • Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robot parser, iterators and pickle for development.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Used Ajax and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Creating Application on Splunk to analyse.  • Developed Splunk infrastructure and related solution for application toolsets.  • Helped team to on-board data, create various knowledge objects, Install and maintain the Splunk Apps.  • Creating Application on Splunk to analyse the data.  • Manage Splunk configurations files like input, props, transforms and lookups.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these chartsto wiki and backup the database.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.    Environment: Python 3.2, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, PyCharm, Urllib, jQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Python Developer Creehan & Company November 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Used jQuery for all client-side JavaScript manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Performed Unit/System test.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations  Environment: Python 2.6, SciPy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, jQuery, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, JASPER, PL/SQL, Bootstrap, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache. Python developer Experian - Costa Mesa, CA May 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used Python, Django and Zope frameworks to develop applications.  • Implemented business logic using Python 2.7.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery and Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frame works like Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Developed and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  • Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a python ORM library for complete access over SQL.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keywords using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Used AJAX and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Various static/media files along with database were hosted into Amazon cloud and support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS was added.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Install and configuring monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances.  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML and JSON documents and load the data in database.  • All projects adhered to agile principles to deliver commitments, meet acceptance criteria and ensure fast releases.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  Environment: Linux and Windows, Python/Django, Python/Zope, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, AJAX and BOOTSTRAP, REST, MySQL, Elastic Search, SQL, Apache, Ubuntu. Python Developer Microscan Computers Pvt ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • End-to-End web application development with Ruby and the Ruby on Rails  • MVC framework for the back-end while the front-ends were built using the Blueprint CSS Framework and HTML.  • Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and re-usable components.  • Designed web pages using JavaScript/ HTML.  • Made use of inheritance concept to reuse different methods in most of the developed classes.  • Developed multiple web applications using Django Framework.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript and server-side validations using various other frameworks.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Django, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing,  • Involved in designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Designed and developed Web services using XML and jQuery.  • Participated actively in unit testing, integration testing and GUI.    Environment: Django, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, SVN, MySQL, Heroku, GitHub, UNIX, and Virtualization. Web Developer Microscan Computers Pvt ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose were designed and developed for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Components using Java J2EE were designed and developed.  • UI using HTML CSS and JavaScript's was created.  • To implement Business Logic Servlets and Beans were created.  • For parsing the data to Oracle Database SAX/DOM Parser was used.  • Backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle were designed and created.  • JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures were used to create database access layer.  • Object model, data model, constraints, tables, stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database were designed.  • User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan was developed and executed.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.    Environment: Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Hibernate, WebSphere, JSP, SOAP, JavaScript, Html, JSF, JBoss, Net beans 6.1, MySQL. Skills DJANGO (7 years), Git (7 years), HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), PYTHON (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programing Languages: C, Python, Django, Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, Java Script libraries, AngularJs, BackboneJs.  Frameworks: Django, Flask, Pyramid, PyJamas, AngularJs Spring, Hibernate.  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, XML, Adobe CQ5, AEM JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, React Js, Node.js.  Scripting Languages: HTML, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, DOM Scripting, XML, AJAX, JSON.  Python Libraries: NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Urllib2, Pandas, CSV and Python-twitter.  Java J2EE Technologies: Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Struts, JSTL, XML, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services  Database: Oracle 8i/9i/11g, MySQL, SQLite, Mango DB.  Operating Systems: Windows, Python, SQLite Linux, MAC.  IDE: Eclipse, WebStorm, PyCharm, Pystudio, Pyscripter, Dream Notepad++, viewer, Sublime text.  Web Server: Apache Tomcat, Web logic, WebSphere, JBoss, HTTP Server.  Testing Tools: Bugzilla, Jasmine, PyUnit, J Unit, JIIRA.  Version Control: Git and SVN.