Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - GE Transportation Chicago, IL • 8+ years of IT experience in Design, Development, Testing, and Deployment of various applications using Python/Django.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, object-oriented design, object-oriented programming and database design.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python/Django, PHP, C++, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript and Angular.js.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Extensive experience with multiple technologies like Python 3.4/2.7, Perl 5.1, C++, Shell Scripting, core Java and C.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework and Working Knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using UnitTest/pytest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Good knowledge on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap.  • Expertise in working with different databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra, MongoDB (2.6,2.4)  • Good understanding of Object-Oriented Technologies and Relational Database Systems.  • Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Developed Automation testing suite using Python and Robot Framework.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object-Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins and version control tools such as Git, SVN, CVS, and JIRA.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, SQLAlchemy, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, wxPython).  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like IDLE, PyCharm, Eclipse, Net Beans, PyStudio and Sublime Text.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, jQuery and Node.js.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, SciPy.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format and worked on web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Expertise in AWS Resources like EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Security Groups.  • Experience in working on different operating systems-windows, iOS, Linux also strong development experience on Linux based operating systems such as Ubuntu, Red Hat and CentOS.  • Good Knowledge of Waterfall and Agile methodologies and experienced on this.  • Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  • Good analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer GE Transportation - Chicago, IL March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Used JQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistic statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GitHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MYSQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer General Motors - Warren, MI January 2016 to February 2017 Sr. Python developer    Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Analyzing and designing test cases for automation framework with Selenium WebDriver  • Configure Elastic search, Logstash and Kibana to provide an end-to-end pipeline for log analytics in near real time  • Create Grok filters and other type filtering in Logstash to enrich and normalize the data before being stored in the Elasticsearch index.  • Using Curator API on Elasticsearch to data back up and restoring.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed the Test Cases Client based on FSD'S and Business Rules; And for Web Client Test Cases based on Use Cases, Wire Frames, Annotated Documents and Business Rules.  • Configure and assign role base access (RBAC) and SUDO to users.  • Execute User and Group Administration while providing Logical Security Administration to users or file systems using; RBAC, Sudo, or Access Control List (ACL).  • Created automation testing framework for regression testing with off-shore team  • Developed PySpark code to mimic the transformations performed in the on-premise environment.  • Developed Python code to gather the data from HBase and designs the solution to implement using PySpark.  • Used jQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  • Worked with millions of database records daily, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and Cassandra.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Datacenter migration to Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure and provided initial support to Applications and Database teams.  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, Cloud front distribution, databases, security groups and application configuration.  • Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using chef.  • Created User Interface (UI) using JavaScript, bootstrap, Angular.js and HTML5/CSS.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Designed RESTful APIs web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.    Environment: Python 3.3, Elasticsearch, Django, AWS, HTML5/CSS, Cassandra, JavaScript, PyCharm, GIT, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, AWS S3 CLI, Vagrant, Docker, Confluence. Python Developer Pioneer Hi-Bred International - Johnston, IA October 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used QOTDFactory's to the Twisted framework to create a Protocol instance that will handle the connection.  • Used TwistedQuotes simple plugin for Twisted's power and exported a small kernel and accessed through every interface that Twisted supports: web pages, e-mail, instant messaging, and a specific Quote of the Day protocol, and more.  • Involved in development of the enterprise social network application using Python, Twisted, and Cassandra.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM applications.  • Experienced in designing Test Plans and Test Cases, Verifying and Validating Web based applications  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy and matplotlib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and MongoDB.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • This project also used other technologies like jQuery for JavaScript manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end HTML layout.  • Information extraction was done by using RESTful API.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Followed agile development methodology to develop the application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.    Environment: Python 2.7, SciPy, Pandas, Bugzilla, Git, C++, Java, jQuery, MongoDB, IntelliJ IDEA, Shell Scripting, HTML4/CSS, Red hat Linux, Apache Tomcat 7.0. Python developer BNY MELLON - New York, NY November 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using Oracle 11 g.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a web pages for front end applications.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format Worked with UNIX like OS on regular basis  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working with new code  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries Numpy and Pandas.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, C++, Java, jQuery, SVN, Oracle 11.1, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML4.0 Red hat Linux. Python Developer Century Link - IN September 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting meetings with various business users.  • Worked with a team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web-based apps for various bank applications.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used CVS SVN to resolve and coding the work on Python.  • Performed pytest and unit test on them. Extracted XML code from script for testing.  • Created database using SQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Used Pandas library for statistical analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Interest calculations.    Environment: Python 2.6, Django, MySQL, Java, XML, Perl, SVN, UNIX, Apache Tomcat 6.0, MS SQL server 2002, SQL. Java Developer United Health Group June 2009 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the maintenance, development and production support for the cyber branch Loan Originating System product. 3  • Involved in the requirement analysis, technical design, Coding and unit testing for the new enhancements.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Worked on the enhancements for the existing pages using servlet, JPA technologies with MS SQL server as the back end. The pages were developed using HTML, Velocity and JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Used Perforce for the version control.  • Designed and developed the application using Waterfall methodology.  • Developed the Loan approval using credit rating from partner banks module.    Environment: Java, JPA 1.0, Servlets, JavaScript 1.7, MySQL, Waterfall HTML 4.0, MS SQL server 2000. Education Bachelor's Skills PYTHON (7 years), HTML (6 years), jQuery (6 years), LINUX (6 years), XML (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating systems Windows, iOS, Linux Ubuntu  Languages Python, Java, C, C++, Perl, PHP, Ruby  Frontend Technologies CSS, AJAX, Java Script, jQuery, Angular JS, JSON  Analytics Tools PyTables, PySpark, Pandas, matplotlib, Tableau, Bokeh, HighCharts  Markup languages HTML, XML  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, Apache HTTP  Databases Oracle, MySQL, Cassandra, MongoDB  IDE PyCharm, Sublime text, Eclipse, Toad, Spyder, PyStudio, IntelliJ IDEA.  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN, CVS, JIRA, Code Collaborator  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum  Cloud AWS (EC2, S3, RDS, ElastiCache etc.), OpenStack