Sr. Python developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Python developer - State Street Financial Corp Boston, MA • Over 7+ years of experience as a Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experience in python, Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript andJQuery, MVC3, RESTful, RUBY, AJAX  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9g, 10g, 11g.  • Have good knowledge on No-Sql databases like Cassandra, Mongodb.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as SVNandGIT.  • Have good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum)  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Have good idea about development tools likeBugzilla, Jira, Confluence, and Axosoft.  • Knowledge of the software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Good understanding of Django ORM and SqlAlchamy  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic  • Understanding of Python best Practices (PEP-8)  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experienced in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla, andJIRA.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Experienced in Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Active Participation in Full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing)  • Extensive knowledge of J2EE Architecture (JSP, JDBC, Data Source, JNDI, JMS, Servlets, )  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows 98/NT/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, UNIX.  • Expert in maintaining technical documentation for projects.  • Good analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment.  • Excellent communication skills with Several Appreciations from clients.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, testing and Implementation and support.  • Databases Like IBM DB2, MongoDB  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, , JavaScript and Jquery. Work Experience Sr. Python developer State Street Financial Corp - Boston, MA August 2015 to Present Roles &Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery& Ruby on rails.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  Environment: Python 2.7, scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache, RUBY, Cassandra Python developer SolarTurbines - CA November 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Created UI usingJavascript and HTML5/CSS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  • BuildSQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scriptingo, RESTful, MVC3. Python developer Vertical Ops, UT February 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Created UI usingJavascript and HTML5/CSS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  • BuildSQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper Reports, Javascript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python developer Morgan Stanley - New York, NY March 2011 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Generated PDF daily and Monthly statements using AsposePDF Kit.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework withCSS / HTML framework.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python Developer Axis Bank April 2009 to February 2011 Roles &Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • BuildSQL, NOSQLqueries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands  Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and Apache Web Server, NO SQL. Web Developer Integrated Wireless Solutions August 2008 to March 2009 Responsibilities:  • Performed requirement gathering, High level design.  • Created UI screens using HTML/CSS, ASP.NET.  • Installed and setup SQL Server 2008 in the new server.  • Designing backend T-SQL Stored Procedures  • Designed and developed user interactive interfaces.  • Created database triggers to implement complex business rules and automatic background processing.  • Created over 50 Jasper Reports and SSRS reports  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked with UNIX like OS on regular basis.  • Creating SSIS Packages migration of data across different servers and Other Databases such as Oracle  • Used update strategy, lookups, stored procedures and filter.  • Studying the existing environment and accumulating the requirements by interacting with the clients on various aspects.  • Identification of various Data Sources and Development Environment.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.  Environment: ASP.NET, MS SQL Server 2008, T-SQL, Jasper, SSRS, SQL Server DTS, MS Access, Windows NT/2000, Visio, RESTFUL, MVC Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating systems Windows, Linux Ubuntu  Languages Java, C, C++, Python, R, Perl, Ruby  Scripting languages CSS, AJAX, Java ScriptJQuery, PHP, Shell Scripting  Analytics Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, NodeXL, MVC3  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, open stock, RESTfulweb services  Databases Oracle, My SQL, query languages: PL, SQL  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Toad, Sublime text, Spyder  Revision Controlling Systems CVS, Github  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum  MS office tools Microsoft Excel (Super user), Microsoft word, Microsoft PowerPoint, PPTPlex