Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Quantum SDS Manhattan, NY • 8 years of experience in developing and designing Web Based, Multi-tier distributed applications using latest analytical programming Python,DJango Angularjs, JAVA, J2EE and JAVA Script technologies.  • Experience with all aspects of technology projects including Business Requirements, Technical Architecture, Design Specification, Development and Deployment.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Angularjs  • Experienced in Python's modules Numpy, matPlotLib, Seaborn, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Worked on NoSQL databases including HBase, Cassandra and Mongo DB.  • Experience in managing and reviewing Hadoop Log files.  • Assisted in Cluster maintenance, Cluster Monitoring, Managing and Reviewing data backups and log files.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework.  • Expertise in practicing the SDLC models, methods with Extreme Programming, Ticketing systems using JIRA and TDD  Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing(UAT)  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies likeMongoDB, relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL,Dynamodband MySQL databases  • Designed, configured and managed public/private cloud infrastructures utilizing Amazon Web Services  • Experienced in creating Amazon EC2 instances and setting up security groups and Configured Elastic Load Balancers with EC2 Auto Scaling groups.  • Worked on creating databases with Amazon RDS with the backups stored in Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) buckets.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services and Automating infrastructure in AWS and Configuring EC2 Instances, VPC, Route 53, ELB, Subnets.  • Well versed with code repositories for branching and maintaining the code using version control tools such as Subversion (SVN) and GIT on UNIX and Windows.  • Managed users and groups for secured access to AWS services and products with AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM). Built policies for specifying different roles for IAM groups.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  • Experience in configuring Node Manager to start and stop managed servers from admin console.  • Experience in both Clustered and non-Clustered environments.  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Quantum SDS November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Created web applications using python and Django.    Environment: Python, Django1.8, Pandas, HTML/CSS, MySQL, PyCharm, GIT, GitHub, AWS. Sr. Python Developer Manhattan, NY March 2016 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, JSON and JQuery, Django.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Used Spark for interactive queries, processing of streaming data and integration with NoSQl.  • Worked under Mapr Distribution and familiar with HDFS.  • Used Cloud Front to deliver content from AWS edge locations to users, allowing for further reduction of load on front-end servers.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and DE normalization.  • Implemented data views and control tools to the ETL packages for efficient data transformation using SSIS.  • Involved in re-design, re-code, and deploy new data extractions using SSIS, and designed and produced documentation of data transformations for all extractions.  • Prepared an ETL technical document maintaining the naming standards.  • Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day to day tasks.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.    Environment: Python, AngularJs, Django1.8, Pandas, Informatica PowerCenter, Pl/Sql, Hadoop, Spark, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA October 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development,,  implementation and testing.  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Python's Unit Test library was used for testing code.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON and AJAX.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Python's Unit Test library was used for testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Applied Logistic Regression, Random Forests, Gradient Boosting and kNN in Python in modeling  • To build and populate DB and to ensure the standards, the team of QA also collaborated.  • Design highly available, cost effective and fault tolerant systems using multiple EC2 instances, Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs.  • Define AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances.  •Experience involving configuring S3 versioning and lifecycle policies to and backup files.  • Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM) and managed network security using Security Groups, and IAM.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used AJAX to update small portions of the web page instead of reloading the entire web page.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Worked as part of data validation team to make sure all the requirements are covered.  • Created complex mappings using Unconnected Lookup, Sorter, Aggregator, newly changed dynamic  • Lookup and Router transformations for populating target table in efficient manner.  • Created database maintenance plans and deleting of history data using SSIS packages.  • Deployed SSIS packages and Reports to Production Servers.  • Advanced extensible reporting skills using SQL Server 2008 Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Developed a High-level dashboard using SSRS 2008.  • Used GIT for the version control.  • Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  • Responsible debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Ensured the best possible performance, quality, and responsiveness of the applications.    Environment:  Python 2.7, Django 1.9, MySQL, Informatica Power Center 9.1.0(ETL), DB2, , Linux, Shell Scripting, Pl/Sql, Aws, HTML5, JBoss(middleware), CSS3, Bootstrap, PostgreSQL, Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, matPlotLib, , JIRA, GIT. Python Developer ZORO Tools Inc - Buffalo Grove, IL August 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed scalable APIs using Spring web framework.  • Gathered data files from Data Warehouse URL's.  • Developed file cleaners using Python libraries and made it clean.  • Configure and administered JDBC, JMS, JNDI in JBoss 6.4, WebLogic Server10.x.  •Installed and configured Apache Web server and integrated with JBoss, Tomcat and WebLogic server.  • Configure and administered WebLogic server with Oracle 12c database.  • Utilized Python Libraries like Boto3, numpy for AWS.  • Using raw files loaded data files from URL's to Amazon S3 Bucket.  • Worked on reading queues in Amazon SQS, which have paths to files in Amazon S3 Bucket.  • Aggregate clean files in Amazon S3.  • Used Amazon EMR for map reduction jobs and test locally using Jenkins.  • Developed and Maintained Cloud formation scripts, also automated the provision of AWS resources which include EC2, S3, RDS.  • Used Multi AZ's for migrating data from SQL database to Amazon RDS.  • Also worked on Amazon EC2 Clusters to deploy files into Buckets.  • Worked on Matillion ETL Tool, used it to transfer and load data into Amazon Redshift.  • Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Created the web pages using Angular JS, HTML 5.0 and CSS 3.0.  • Created Reusable components by writing React JS classes.  • Migrated the code to React JS with Redux.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Exported/Imported data between various data sources.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Used SQL CRUD operations, procedure/functions and optimization.  • Performed Automated Unit and system integration testing.    Environment:  Python 2.7, Django 1.6, Linux, S3, EC2, Redshift, RDS, EMR, SQS, Matillion ETL Tool, Pandas, GIT, Middleware administration, JBoss, MySQL, Agile, HTML, Cassandra, CSS, Jenkins. Python Developer San Diego, CA December 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on requirement gathering and High level design.  • Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI development.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python and MSQL.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Used Thales theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Contributed patches back to Django.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Used several Python libraries like wxPython, numpy and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.6, Scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, JASPER, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache. Software Developer Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd January 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Automated data extraction process from legacy system and used 'Nose' Testing framework with Assertion module to testing many automated process.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Developed weekly, monthly nightly job process through UNIX shell scripting.  • Thoroughly used Unit Test Python library for testing many python programs and block of codes.  • Also have rich experience on testing REST Full API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.    Environment: Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux, UNIX. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills CSS (8 years), DJANGO (8 years), HTML (8 years), PYTHON (8 years), LINUX (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks Django, Flask and CSS Bootstrap    Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, XML, Angular JS  Programming Languages C, C++, Python-3.5 & 2.7, Java, R , SQL and PL/SQL.  Python Libraries Python, Django, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables, pdb  Version Control GIT (GitHub), SVN, CVS, Bitbucket.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, DynamoDB, MongoDB, HBase, ETL, Informatica, Cassandra.  IDE's/ Development Tools PyCharm and Sublime Text.  Web Services AWS, Amazon S3,Lambda, ELB, S3, API Gateway    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP, SMTP, REST.  Deployment Tools Jenkins, Ansible , Docker  Tracking Tools JIRA.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall