Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Allstate insurance company Chicago, IL Having 8+ years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, Flask, Pyramid and client-server technologies-based applications, RESTful services, AWS, C, C++, JAVA and SQL.    • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, networks, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive .com  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Strong expertise in development of web-based applications using Python, Django, HTML, XML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and jQuery.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object-Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Experience in using Jenkins/Hudson as a Continuous Integration server to configure with Ant/Maven.  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and Pylint.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1) and Mongo DB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Write, maintain and improve automation scripts in Perl, BASH, PHP & Python.  • The methodology used here will be to introduce in a simple and abbreviated manner the components of the Jython language most likely to be used in wsadmin scripts.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Good knowledge in working with application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0).  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Experience in Test Driven Development and Behaviour Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects.  • Evaluates engineering approaches and risks to produce development plans that ensure high quality, low cost products and systems  • Reviews, mentors and coaches, while defining and promoting use of standards, best practices and lessons learned. Work Experience Python Developer Allstate insurance company - Chicago, IL July 2017 to Present Description: The Allstate Corporation is the one of the largest insurance providers in the United States and one of the largest that is publicly held. The company also has personal lines insurance operations in Canada. Allstate was founded in 1931 as part of Sears, Roebuck and Co., and was spun off in 1993. The company has had its headquarters in Northfield Township, Illinois, near Northbrook since 1967.Its current advertising campaign, in use since 2004, asks, "Are you in good hands?" The corporate spokesperson is Dennis Haysbert.  Responsibilities:  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashovers stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views using Python, so as to manufacture an intuitive electronic arrangement.  • Used Python based GUI parts for the front-end usefulness, for example, determination criteria, made test saddle to empower exhaustive testing using Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for enhanced productivity of capacity and quick access.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Twitter Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Worked on messaging solutions like ActiveMQ and worked on unit test plans (UTP), integrated test plans (ITP) and user acceptance testing (UAT) and involved in development of main modules like CSV import, xlsx import, bulk content upload.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Also Used jQuery as library to create a Single Page Application (Phases) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server and Worked with JQX widgets functionality.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used Python based GUI segments for the front-end usefulness, for example, choice criteria, Created test outfit to empower exhaustive testing using Python.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Stored the data in the form of JSON structure-based documents, stored in a collection using MongoDB. Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and Beautiful soup (b4) in extracting the Data during development phase and perform unit testing.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Creating RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Fixed bugs, providing production support, enhanced applications by improving code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Collaborated within a team using an agile development workflow and widely-accepted collaboration practices using Git.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  • Implemented Garbage collection with CPython to enhance the performance, by garbage collecting the older generated objects.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, DevCentre, Datastax Ops center.  • Written test cases using PyUnit and Selenium Automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  • Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration on Amazon EC2.  • Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.    Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7, CherryPy, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, RESTful webservice, MongoDB, MySQL, SQLite, Cassandra, Docker, AWS (EC2, S3), PyUnit, Karma, Jenkins, Selenium Automation Testing. Python Developer PG&E - San Francisco, CA April 2016 to June 2017 Description: The Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) is an investor-owned electric utility (IOU) with publicly traded stock that is headquartered in the Pacific Gas & Electric Building in San Francisco. PG&E provides natural gas and electricity to most of the northern two-thirds of California, from Bakersfield almost to the Oregon border which represents 5.2 million households.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the project life cycle including design, development and implementation and verification and validation  • Developed the application front end using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Django framework.  • Extensively utilized Python frameworks like Django, Flask, Sanic, PyUnit and libraries like matplotlib.  • Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frame works.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts, matplotlib for data visualization of sales, tracking progress, identifying trends.  • Developed data-accessible web applications for employee accesses using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Django.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library(Tweepy), Used JSON to store the twitter data which was further represented using matplotlib visualization and generated graphical reports for business decision using matplotlib library.  • Participate in the design, build and deployment of NoSQL implementations like MongoDB.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Integrated to Google Cloud platform for large scale computing workloads.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, also conducted meetings among Team.  • Developed server-based web traffic using RESTful API's statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Wrote PL/SQL views, Stored Procedures, database triggers & Packages.  • Implemented table sorting feature on the webpages regardless of the type of data types with the use of JavaScript.  • Enhanced by adding Python XML SOAP request/response handlers to add accounts, modify trades and security updates.  • Recording of Scripts Web Services HTML using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods.  • Worked with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/10i and MySQL databases to query and read data.  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  • Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Implemented continuous integration using Jenkins and involved in the deployment of application with Ansible automation engine.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI testing using PyTest and web application testing using Selenium Python bindings.  • Designed many UML diagrams in Magic Draw for generating C++ code on the fly.  • Used Embedded Coder for translating models into model source code and executable in QNX Real Time Operating System(RTOS) single-tasking mode.  • Writing the assembly language program and debugging.  • Developed applications in QT creator.  • Conversion of the analog to a digital voltmeter with the help assembly language and plc programming.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Debugged and Tested Android app using Charles debugging session as man-in-middle proxy and monitored traffic flow through the devices.  • logged user stories and acceptance criteria in JIRA for features by evaluating output requirements and formats.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.    Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Hadoop, Django 1.7, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON, JavaScript, PostgreSQL, T-SQL, MongoDB, SoapUI, Docker Oracle 11g/10i, Charles Web Debugging, Ansible, MySQL, Google Cloud, Amazon AWS S3, Bugzilla, JIRA. Python Developer Santander Bank - Boston, MA December 2014 to March 2016 Description: Santander Bank, N. A. formerly Sovereign Bank, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Spanish Santander Group. It is based in Boston and its principal market is the north eastern United States. It has $54.7 billion in deposits, operates about 650 retail banking offices and over 2,000 ATMs, and employs approximately 9,800 people. It offers an array of financial services and products including retail banking, mortgages, corporate banking, cash management, credit card, capital markets, trust and wealth management, and insurance.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed UI for creating Dashboard application using AngularJS, D3, C3, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed and implemented Python scripts to automate retrieval, parsing and reporting of configuration parameters from Network Devices connected to customer networks.  • Involved in user interface design and development using JSP, Servlet, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Wrote and tested Python scripts to create new data files for Linux server configuration using a Python template tool.  • Modified controlling databases using SQL generated via Python and Perl code, collected and analyzed data with Python programs using SQL queries from the database of data collected from the systems under tests.  • Developed new user interface components for different modules using Kendo UI with various controls including Grid controls, and chart controls etc.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service etc.  • Tested and assessed comes about for incorporation into programming item.  • Designed and sent machine learning arrangements in Python to group a large number of already unclassified Twitter clients into center information item.  • Used Pandas API to put the information as time arrangement and forbidden frame for east timestamp information control and recovery to deal with time arrangement information and do information control.  • Used Pandas library for factual Analysis utilizing R Studio.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  • Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching Hadoop Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts.  • Developed Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Involved in the Web/Application development using Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, and jQuery.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Cleaned data and processed third-party spending data into Manoeuvrable deliverables within specific format with Excel macros and python libraries such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy, and Matplotlib.  • Prototype proposal for Issue Tracker website using Python/Django connecting MySQL as Database.    Environment: Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, MySQL, NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Matplotlib, Hadoop, Pig Scripts. Python Developer Qualcomm - San Diego, CA April 2013 to November 2014 Description: Qualcomm is an American multinational semiconductor and telecommunications equipment company that designs and markets wireless telecommunications products and services. It derives most of its revenue from chip making and the bulk of its profit from patent licensing businesses.    Responsibilities:  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control (MVC) architecture.  • A developed analytical component using Scala and KAFKA.  • Designed Forms, Modules, Views and Templates using Django and Python.  • Installed/configures/maintained Apache servers on all machines (production server and developmental servers).  • The created script in python for calling REST APIs.  • Implemented Business logic, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation using Python and Django.  • Implemented RESTful Web-services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Implemented Business logic, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation using Python and Django.  • Rewrite existing Python/Flask module to deliver certain format of data.  • Created authorization scheme which enforced limitations on API clients.  • Overwritten Django Rest Framework internals to allow for more dynamic routing.  • Worked with SCRUM Agile methodology to ensure delivery of high-quality work with monthly iteration/time box.  • Installed/configured/maintained Apache servers on all machines (production server and development servers).  • Administrate Continuous Integration services (Jenkins, Nexus Artifactory, and Repository).  • Designed and Developed DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Installed/configured/maintained MySQL database and MongoDB database.  • Executed Backend and Database Tests using SQL queries, validating the data for database editing and debugging is conducted using selenium.  • Created a database using MySQL and wrote various queries for the extraction of data from the database.  • Used NoSQL database Apache Cassandra to load the data in the database.  • Developed a multi-threaded C++ SOAP web service application to process XML Requests with a scheduler option to run things at dedicated times.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Using jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between the front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible, and Docker.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Resolve, tune, maintain & manage client's JBoss / WebLogic / WAS - ATG instances on cluster connectivity producing optimal performance results in each environment throughout the life cycle.  • Prepare Test scripts for different applications using QTP & Selenium.  • Worked with RDBMS like Oracle and MySQL databases to query and read data.  • Transfer Object for Lookups, Value List Handler for search and DAO.  • Worked on AWS using EC2 instances, setting security groups (ports, source) handling events between python scripts and Linux server.  • Designed and led big data algorithms using Hadoop and Java to improve forecasting and used HiveQL to generate reports.  Environment: Python, Django, Bootstrap, Django, Flask, MySQL, PostgreSQL, PyCharm, Apache CXF, Rest, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, Coherence, Mongo DB, HTML, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Oracle, Crud, PL/ SQL, JDBC, UML, JUnit, Maven, GWT, Clear Case, Jasper Report, ILog, Agile, Web 2.0, SOA. Python Developer Xylem Water Solution India Pvt Ltd - Gujarat, IN November 2011 to March 2013 Description: Xylem Inc. is a large American water technology provider, enabling customers worldwide to transport, treat, test and efficiently use water in public utility, residential, commercial, agricultural and industrial settings. The company does business in more than 150 countries. Launched in 2011 from the spinoff of the water-related businesses of ITT Corporation, Xylem is headquartered in Rye Brook, N.Y., with 2015 revenues of $3.65 billion and 12,500 employees worldwide.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Python Django Framework for developing backend of applications. Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications.  • Developed a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Java and Python using Web Frameworks.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Implemented the MVC pattern with Struts framework with Tiles for the presentation layer.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Responsible for Creating Python API's.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.    Environment: Python 2.6, Django, REST Web services, Struts, PHP, C++, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, API, AJAX, XHTML, Bootstrap JavaScript, XML, GitHub, Flash, SQLite, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows, Linux. Java Developer Sparx Infosys - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2009 to October 2011 Description: Spark Infosys is one of The Best Professional Web Designing, Web Development, Mobile Application Development & SEO (Digital Marketing) Company in Hyderabad with more than 10 years of experience in designing and development of web applications and has successfully completed more than 500+ projects for client's around the world.  Responsibilities:  • Involved and interacted with Business analysts for conversion business requirements to development.  • Developed Servlets and several JSP's for web development.  • Developed several User Interface using swings and applets.  • Designed and implemented several drags and drop functionalities for various elements using Swing, Java AWT.  • Wrote several PL/SQL procedures and SQL queries to retrieve data from database. Designed and developed several complex SQL queries. Used explain plan for slow running queries and made necessary changes to code to expedite the query execution.  • Established JDBC connections for data retrieval and update.  • Involved in making GUI (JSP, HTML, and JS) and java classes using Struts Framework.  • Used Struts framework to implement J2EE design pattern (MVC).  • Used STL, Algorithms and Data structures widely to store data on accounts, Order history, securities, etc. for fast retrieval/update in C++ programming. Also Debugged with GDB.  • Part of a development team for implementing Equity Order Management system to accept orders from UI, FIX, send/route to Exchanges and other broker dealers and fill the trades in C++ on Unix and Linux platforms.  • By using Eclipse developed and debugged the JSP and EJB components.  • Developed automatic emailing system and JNDI to interact with the server.  • Documented the design documents using Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using the Rational Application Developer.  • Designed and developed a web-based client using Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, Java Script, HTML and XML using Struts Framework.  • Used SOA Suite ESB / Mediators components for the validation, filter and transformation of the document data from one xml schema to another.  • Used SOAP Technology for exchanging the XML application using HTTP.  • Used SVN for version control of the code and configuration file.  • Extensively used MAVEN as build tool.  • Configured JMS and EJB on Web Logic Server in Eclipse environment.  • Used PL/SQL tables, REF cursors to process huge volume of data and used BULK collect and BULK bind for mass update as performance improvement process.    Environment: J2EE (JNDI, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS, JDBC), PL/SQL, Struts Framework, Apache Tomcat 5.0, Oracle Database, WebLogic, JBoss 4.0.5, Apache Tomcat, HTML, MVC, IBM Rational Rose. Education Bachelor's Skills SQL (8 years), LINUX (8 years), C++ (8 years), XML (8 years), DATABASE (8 years), Python Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages C, C++, Python, JavaScript, PHP, XML, JAVA, SQL  SCM Tools Subversion Perforce, Jenkins/Hudson, Sonar, Jira, TFS, Confluence, Clear Case, AccuRev, GIT, GitHub.  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Make    Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows, DOS, VMware  Database Postgre SQL, MS Access, SQL Server, MYSQL and Sybase, Oracle, DB2  Application Servers Web logic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, Apache tomcat5.5, IIS  Issue Tracking Tools ATLASSIAN JIRA, BUGZILLA, Mantis  Delivery Tools Saltstack, Chef & Puppet