Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Tampa, FL • Over 6+ years of experience in Java / J2EE and Python in several industries and projects on Cross Platform (web based application and client server application) development and design using Object Oriented Programming, Java / J2EE technologies.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, objects oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Extensive experience in developing web applications using Java API, Swing, HTML 3/4/5, Flex, Javascript, CSS2/3, JQuery, JDBC, JSF, JMS, XML  • Good knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts, Standard Template Library, smart Pointers, Data Structures and Design patterns.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and MVC Struts.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Knowledge of servers Apache Tomcat, Web logic, and Apache HTTP  • Sound exposure on XML technologies like DOM, SAX, XML Schema, XSL, XSLT, XPath, DTD, XSD, JAXB for data exchange and presentation.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jython.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and Postgre SQL database.  • Good Knowledge on RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle, SQL Server 2008, MYSQL.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Dallas, TX December 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing stateful and stateless session beans for developing business logic.  • Used Struts API for capturing action events of the application.  • Developed JSPs, Servlets and custom tags for creating user interfaces.  • Performed client-side and server-side validations using Struts validations.  • Collaborated with web services team to implement the backend support  • Used Tiles framework in JSP pages to change the look and feel of the website.  • Adopted J2EE best practices using J2EE design patterns for designing and developing the application components.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed UI screens for validation using Struts Validator and JavaScript  • Used JDBC and Oracle PL/SQL and SQL queries for Oracle database interaction.  • Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Developed web sites using PHP/MySQL, Django, Python, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Written the unit test cases for technical as well as functional flow.  • Deployed and tested on WebSphere Application Server.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python.  • Worked with XML, XSL to develop UI for the application.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlet under J2EE Environment.  • Front end graphical user interface is designed using HTML, JSP, XML and CSS.  • Maintained versions using CVStool to merge code, check in and checkout the data.  • Tested and implemented applications built using Python. Python Developer Fidelity - Cary, NC November 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  • Hands-on experiences in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  • Developed business layer using Spring, Hibernate and DAO's.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms  • Performed QA testing on the application.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3, Git, Perl, Python Developer Nettap - Morrisville, NC September 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Programming in Python as well as Perl  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Cassandra. Python Developer Morrison's Management - Atlanta, GA July 2011 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrapper developed in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application and running with other applications  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.  Environment: Python 2.7, scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache, RUBY, Cassandra, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins Python Software Developer Jefferies Group - Jersey City, NJ April 2010 to June 2011 Project- Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.    Responsibilities:  • Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI development.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python, MSQL.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Worked extensively on Multithreading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Deployment and testing of the applications.  • Used HTML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Worked for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running it the design team for project structure.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi threading functionality.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users Software Developer Infosys - Bangalore, Karnataka January 2009 to March 2010 Project: Developed a web based application using python to automate the ATM cash management process.    Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Apache Couch dB (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML  documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Issues pertaining to Real time data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and Apache Web Server, NO SQL. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Engineering SRM University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY:    Languages: Python 2.7/2.4, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL  Python Framework: Django 1.3/1.4  Databases: MySQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle, Teradata  Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JSON, JQuery,  Web Services: SOAP/REST, APACHE, AWS, Apache, IIS  Tools: Load balancer, LoadRunner/WinRunner, Git, SVN, CVS