Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Frost Bank, TX Princeton, NJ • Software Developer with 9+ years of experience in developing applications using Python, Java, MatLab and C.  • In depth knowledge in different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Waterfall and Agile methodologies.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node Js  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and Postgre SQL database.  • Experience in supporting QA team on application testing phase.  • Involved in software product installation and worked closely with the vendors on the application packaging and installation process.  • Excellent knowledge of Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing and other services of the AWS family.  • Worked on various applications using Python integrated IDEs Eclipse, Pycharm.  • Used Pandas, Numpy, Scipy for statistical analysis  • Experienced in Designing and implementing of Test driven application development.  • Expert in creating SQL queries for the development and QA for data validation  • Developed unit testing cases and helped QA team identify/review critical scenarios for system testing.  • Experience in Devops continuous integration and deployment of Agile projects  • Setup continuous build environment with Jenkins to do daily deployments.  • Deploy configuration updates using Chef, Ansible.  • Motivated self-starter with exceptional team building and interpersonal skills.  • Ability to excel and succeed in diverse environments and projects with strong determination, dedication and inclination towards customer satisfaction.  • Good team player with excellent communication skills and quickly adopt new technologies. Work Experience Python Developer Frost Bank, TX October 2016 to Present Description: Frost Bank offers a superfluity of investment services to its customers through different advising relationships. The project involved building a web based tool used internally by the representatives of the Bank to maintain customer management system and to manage the transactions of the customer. This project "Loan Origination System" processes loans, creates Service Requests in Branch and Call Center. This application helps in verifying the eligibility and approves the loan for the customer.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Pycharm, AJAX, JSON, Java Script, HTML, CSS, PYUNIT, Jenkins, Jira, SVN  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the SDLC phases to analyze the requirement design, development, testing and deployment.  • Understanding the functional requirements from business analysts and developing the server side modules using Python.  • Providing Python programming support for the existing applications in other environments  • Implemented batch jobs using python and shell scripts  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL  • Developed the business domain layer using Python Django framework  • Loaded data into reference database using Python and MySQL connector  • Develop and validated unit test cases using PYUNIT  • Configured Git with Jenkins and schedule jobs using POLL SCM option  • Involved in setting up the builds using chef as a configuration management tool  • Established Chef Best practices approaches to system deployment with tools with vagrant  And managing Chef Cookbooks as a unit of software deployment and independently version controlled  • Handle deployment of modules in Dev and integration environments  • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to server to integrate with the server side modules  • Worked on fixing the bugs on existing Jiras and validated in the integration environment  • Developed prototype using Python/Django framework and using MySQL as Database  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using python libraries  • Used Subversion for version control and Jira for a tracking Python Developer ArchSystems Inc September 2015 to September 2016 Description: MSC industrial supply Co. is a premier direct marketer & distributor of industrial supplies with 70 years of success.MSC industrial supply also provides a variety of tailored services and solutions that are integrated with an existing business environment including Vendor Managed Inventory(VMI), Customer Managed Inventory (CMI), E-Procurement and inventory management.  Environment: Windows7, Linux, Python, JSP, Ajax, Java Script, JQuery, XML, Git, Oracle  Responsibilities:  • Developed python modules for the vendor management inventory  • Developed the business layer using Python and integrated with the web framework  • Participated in many front end development tasks and fixed production related issues  • Involved in debugging to understand the code flow and did clean up in existing code  • Resolved issues related to requirements during system testing and UAT  • Closely worked with QA team to resolve issues related to application and environment related issues  • Used Git for version control and Jira for a defect tracking. Python Developer KENEXA Systems Inc October 2012 to July 2015 Description: APPS is a back office system to process accounts and payables at end of the day. The system receives various files with the account and payable data at various intervals. The system picks the files and updates the payment data with in a transaction.  Environment: Python, MySQL, Windows, Linux  Responsibilities:  • Participated in major phases of software development cycle with requirement gathering, Unit testing, development, and analysis and design phases using Agile/SCRUM methodologies.  • Developed the business domain layer using python.  • Develop the process to pick up the files and parse and insert the data into the temporary tables.  • Created the unit test cases to validate the data against the temporary database tables.  • Developed jobs to monitor the data file arrivals.  • Worked closely with the business team to validate the consolidation of the payments of various accounts.  • Generated end of day(EOD) reports for the various business units.  • Used subversion to manage the version control of the projects.  • Created batch jobs to run the reports Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions.  • Support and bug fixing and enhancement to the application. C Developer ENEXCO Teknologies Limited June 2009 to September 2012 Environment: Windows, Linux, Oracle, reports, C, Genesis.  Description: The mobicom and Rotonet application is to capture various machine critical alerts of instruments in the cement plant.  Responsibilities:  • Developed instrument workflows to capture the various mechanical events from Program logic controllers using Genesis software and C.  • Developed reports using crystal reports engine.  • Tested and integrated the application with Genesis.  • Installed software and setup the application at the client site.  • Integrated and dry run the application using standalone offline PLCs.  • Validated the metric values in the database which are captured from instrument work flows. Education Bachelor's in Electronics and Communication Engineering Princeton - Princeton, NJ Skills LINUX (7 years), PYTHON (5 years), ORACLE (4 years), MYSQL (4 years), Subversion (4 years) Additional Information Technical Expertise    Languages: C, Python, Java  Databases: Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, MYSQL    Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile/Scrum  Operating Systems: MS-DOS, UNIX, Linux, Windows 7, MAC  Tools: MatLab, PL/SQL, Eclipse, Pycharm, Jira, Jenkins, Git, Subversion  Puppet, Chef, Anisble, AWS  Web technologies: HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS  Others: Notepad++, Cygwin, Git Bash