Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Apple ? 7 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  ? Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  ? Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript, Angular.js.  ? Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.X, Django 1.X/Flask  ? Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and No-SQL databases like MongoDB, Pymongo.  ? SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance (Bulk Binds, Materialized views, Inline views, Global Temporary Tables)  ? Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  ? Good experience in working with Web services like Amazon EC2, AWS and Amazon s3.  ? Hands-on experience in UNIX and LINUX Kernels.  ? Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, and Bugzilla.  ? Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  ? Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  ? Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  ? Proven ability to implement Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment processes.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Performed numerous server migrations on both Linux and Windows servers. Migrations include moving all clients and their data, configuration settings, testing and verifying.  ? Extensive knowledge on automated batch programs by UNIX shell Scripts (file validations, file downloads, workflow executions).  ? Can handle, writing technical and functional documents defined by the business requirements.  ? Outstanding communication, analysis, and out-of-the-box/creative problem solving.  ? Experience in working with different operating systems Windows, UNIX, Linux, and OS X. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Apple - Sunnyvale, CA August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment  ? Wrote Python scripts which periodically ingests data into Postgres and serves as the back-end to a web server.  ? Worked on Jenkins creating jobs, executing jobs in different environment, creating triggers and configuring jobs.  ? Load and transform large data sets of structured, semi structured and unstructured data using Hadoop/Big Data concepts.  ? Developed spark jobs using pyspark in test environment for faster data processing.  ? Working on Swagger-enabled REST API to serve as entry-point for web UI and integrate with other applications.  ? Worked on Nodejs (Protopath parser project) to come up with all possible combinations of Protopath by analyzing the input for predicting the combination of incorrect inputs.  ? Working on designing and implementing a web application using Python/Django for displaying the Maps data for every release and also providing a scope for generating a diff between the data for every release.  ? Working on Gradle utility to automate the build and deployment process. Python Developer Sunnyvale, CA April 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on multiple projects like Taxonomy, Feed Gate Way which deals with the product classification and providing a platform for sellers, suppliers and MP sellers for updating the product and inventory in .com  ? Created client and server actions and added permissions for admins and non-admin users by restricting individuals for a particular data set by using flask principal, permissions and needs.  ? Developed an API that asynchronously distributes task using RabbitMQ and Celery  ? Porting of data import jobs from cron jobs to distributed tasks, leading to a speedup.  ? Efficiently performed all backend tasks from OPS up to the REST API interface/Portal frontend single handedly.  ? Deployed async jobs monitoring system using celery flower.  ? Wrote unittests and did code reviews.  ? Worked with search business and search team to implement dynamic rule updates to search using elasticsearch.  ? Created mapreduce job using python for creating sync between PTC configs and PTCs to remove unwanted attributes for products in .com.  ? Used basic Hive queries for processing large sets of data used for analyzing the 1P, 2P and 3P products and also for analyzing data from MP Sellers, Sellers and Suppliers.  ? Developed Spark code using python for faster processing of data given by market place sellers for generating best specification and description of products  ? Worked closely with the search team (Machine learning) for the title optimization of products by processing the product information given by the sellers. (Title, Specifications, Description etc.)  ? Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  ? Good Knowledge on MongoDB Workspaces, Snapshots and patching documents in Snapshots.  ? Wrote scripts to integrate API's with 3rd party applications.  ? Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python and made a Celery action using REST API call.  ? Performed Did data validation and data cleaning process and data manipulation with pandas and numpy.  ? Did data analysis, miss value imputation with statistical methodologies using pandas, numpy.  ? Worked under Agile/Scrum environment and handled production rollouts and issues.  ? Developed new and enhanced search features such as SYNONYM, CANONICAL and ABBREVIATION for optimizing search results and relevancy. (JSON-elasticsearch-Kibana)  ? Extensively used XLSX reader and writer modules to read, write and analyze data and project the results as per the client request.  ? Used GIT and JENKINS for continuous integration and deployment.  ? Was a part of Holiday readiness support team starting from Thanksgiving to Christmas.    Environment: Python 2.7, Flask, Eve, Celery, Mongodb, Hive, Hadoop, Event, Postman, Pycharm, JIRA, JSON, Docker, GIT, Jenkins, Linux Python Developer CVS Caremark - Phoenix, AZ June 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Implemented SQL Alchemy, which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and wrote several queries to extract/store data.  ? Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Used Apache. htaccess to provide authentication system for Django/MySQL sites  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Developed MapReduce jobs in python data cleaning and data processing.  ? Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using Django and GIT version control system.  ? Designed and Developed Restful web-services for both consumer and producer using Django, Swagger, Gunicorn.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  ? Using version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, Swagger, Hadoop, MySQL, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, MYSQL and Linux. Python Developer ABC Insurance - Bloomington, IL January 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked on Front-end UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Jquery for event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python/Django, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python to place data into JSON for Django Webapp.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used Beautiful Soup for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Apache, MongoDB (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance to store and analyze data.  • Restructuring data for faster distributed queries to aid caching.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Implemented jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Created server-monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics, which I created. Also researched big data solutions with MongoDB database.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Rest APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Identified several hidden bugs caused by complicated multithreading issues such as race conditions caused by asynchronous events and resolved them.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, JSON, REST, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Heroku, SOAP, Git, MongoDB, UNIX. Python Developer US Cellular - Chicago, IL November 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding the current business process, defining scope of the project along with position statement.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Used Python and Django creating for XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Writing Unit, Functional, and Integration test cases for Cloud Computing applications on AWS using Python with boto library.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for entire internal project with limited help from the client.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Provided technical and business knowledge to clients.  • Connected Flex from Backend Controller using different API services.  • Working with the architect, developers on business and technical issues, helping in designing the system; and testers to ensure all requirements are correctly translated.  • Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA.  • Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.  Environment: Python, Django, Java, MySQL, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, and Linux. JAVA Developer HILTI - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2010 to September 2013 India  Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  ? Designed and developed components using Java/J2EE.  ? Created UI using HTML CSS and JavaScript's.  ? Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic.  ? Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database.  ? Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle 9i.  ? Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  ? Worked on Socket communication layers and multithreading on Linux.  ? Worked on SNMP interfaces.  Environment: J2EE, HTML, CSS, JDBC, Servlets, SNMP, JavaScript, Oracle, Apache Web Server and Linux.