Python Developer/ Tester <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Tester Python Developer/ Tester - TDS Communications Madison, WI • Over 7 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone and client-server enterprise applications.  • Experienced of software development in Python(libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, PyQt, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC).Architectureusing server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, Python STL, Hbase, Hive, Pig, Scoop, Django, UI, Perl, Groovy, and web development.  • Worked on several standard python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc and Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Experience in working with AWS: Amazon S3, Amazon EC2, and Amazon SQS, DynamoDB(NoSQL) and Lambda.  • Exposure to the automation on Linux environments using automation tools such as Puppet, Chef and Lightweight virtualization with Linux Containers and Docker.  • Good hands on experience with GO Lang and its Built-in concurrency features such as go-routines, channels and select statement and done White box / unit testing of the Java code with the baseline results from VBA.  • Experienced in automating test case design, development, test status and metrics reporting.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Experience in continuous build and version control systems like Jenkins, Coverity, Jira, git, svn, OpenGrok.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing(UAT).  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage. Work Experience Python Developer/ Tester TDS Communications - Madison, WI February 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed a Python automated testing framework which can send, receive FIX Messages, test various interfaces including SOAP XML. Tool is primarily used to do integration testing as it can create an order, route it out, get fills and generate success or error reports and can send it over thru FTP or email.  • Enhanced by adding Python XML SOAP request/response handlers to add accounts, modify trades and security updates.  • Added Buyside and Sellside interfaces to route and receive orders over FIX as TCP/IP packets on a given port. Used FIX Simulator behind the scenes.  • Documented software defects, using defect tracking system, and reported defects to software developers. Monitored defect resolution efforts and tracked successes.  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  • Co-ordinate with frontend team to build API contracts and check the feasibility of contract with backend architecture.  • Developed an information pipeline utilizing Kafka and Storm to store data into HDFS.  • Developed Javascript based UI for displaying and running the test cases along with their output.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • versions  • Used Google Test framework to do white box and Unit testing.  • Developed and executed White box test cases of the Java API using Testing framework & Eclipse.  • Implemented automated testing platforms and unit tests using Python. Experience with Black-box and White-box testing.  • Found and fixed various bugs by running static analysis tools like Coverity, cppCheck and Pylint.  • Developed web page and form validation with team using Angular.JS, React.Js, Bootstrap.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, HTML5, CSS & JavaScript.  • Strong Knowledge in scripting technologies like Python, Scala, Shell, Groovy on Grails and Perl.  • Utilized the Unix cron tab for scheduling the automation of modifying the data in the database.    Environment: Python, FIX, multiprocessing, TCP/IP programming, MySQL, AWS, Amazon EC2, Amazon SQS, Docker, Unix, Linux, Matlab, Rabbit MQ, Redis Cache, C, C++, cppCheck, Jenkins, Coverity, Pylint, Jira, Agile, Splunk, Kafka, Oozie, javascript. Python Developer Northern Trust - Chicago, IL December 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code With using of python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Build sing page apps, modules, graphics and reusable components using Angular.JS, React.Js, Bootstrap.js, Node.js, BackboneDevelop data cleansing, retrieval, migration tools (ETL).  • Developed Micro services using Go language and worked on test cases.  • Worked with version control, used Github version control for GO Lang source code.  • Utilized Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, Twisted, PyQT, Web2py, Pygal, Plot.ly.  • SQL Workflow System, using Python created an adapter allowing communication between Sharepoint lists and SSIS packages. This system provides users the ability to create complex automation workflows  • Developed scripts to migrate data from a proprietary database to MySQL.  • Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Elastic Search with Python.  • SQL Naming Conventions Enforcement, Using Python; Stored Procedures created a server job that enforces naming conventions of all SQL objects. Creating a more constant SQL environment  • Client Search Engine, Using Python and XLWings package created an excel interface to search for client info through our database.    Environment:- Python, JavaScript, C++, SQL, ETL, Erwin, Lamda, SOAP, FIX, TCP/IP programming, MySQL, Rabbit MQ, C, C++, cppCheck, Elastic Search, Jenkins, Coverity, Agile. Python Developer Cymer ASML, CA October 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD.  • Developed rich UI web application using javascript libraries like jQueryUI, datagrid, jscolor, highcharts.  • Designed and developed components using Python. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Implemented front end for third party Web service using JQuery, Html, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation with Jython.  • Developed the frontend for interaction by using the Django framework.  • Worked with version controlling system CVS and SVN.  • Used MySQL as backend database and Mysqldb of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  • Deployment of application on Web logic 8.1 for testing and development team.  • Validate test content in Emulation for SoC Display Controller.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Used Connect SOAP rule to fetch the Webservices.  • Used SOAP UI to test the external service.  • Involved in testing the application.    Environment:- Java, Python 2.6, Django, CVS, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MYSQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Unix Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux, WebLogic Application Server. Software Developer Century Link - IN June 2010 to August 2013 Responsibilities:-  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used PHP to write dynamically generated pages quickly.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Web pages on the internet are generated by servers running LINUX.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio. Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked PHP as a server side scripting language, for web pages.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production  • Implemented the validation, error handling and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Worked on scripts for setting up the discovery client with attribute data.  Environment:- Python, Oracle, Eclipse, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript. Education Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills MYSQL (8 years), SQL (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), PYTHON (8 years), SOAP (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:-    Languages Python, C++, C, Core Java.  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac OSX, Solaris.  Protocols HTTP/HTTPS, TCP/IP, SOAP, REST, SMTP.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Web2py, Pytest, Pyramid.  Databases Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, MongoDB, Redis.  Python Libraries ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, Pandas, PyPI, Pyspark, Pygit.  Web Servers Nginx, Apache Tomcat, SOAP, Apache Kafka, AWS, Amazon EC2.  Version Control Systems CVS, SVN, Git and GitHub.  Web Design HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JSP, AJAX, Bootstrap, Javascript.  Development Tools PyCharm, Atom, Sublime Text, Visual Studio, Eclipse, Python-IDLE Emacs.