Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - AIG is multinational financial and Insurance Corporation Hartford, CT • 7+ years of experience in developing Single page and n-layer web applications using Python, Flask, React Js, Django, MySQL, CSS, HTML, Java script, MVC, AJAX.  • Experience in developing applications using AWS EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront.  • Knowledge in OpenStack services such as NOVA, SWIFT, KEYSTONE, NEUTRON, CINDER and GLANCE.  • Experienced with Software development life cycle including Agile and Scrum methodologies.  • Extensive usage of Atlassian tools such as Jira, Bugzilla, Git, Bitbucket, Stash and Confluence.  • Experience in Test driven development for functional and integration testing using Python Nosetest, PyUnit, Robot framework and Selenium frameworks.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, and MySQL databases.  • Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications using IDE's such as PyCharm, WebStorm, IntellIJ and Visual Studio.  • Experience in data analysis using R-Analytics, Numpy, Pandas, SciPy.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, UNIX commands.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience in developing applications in Linux Environments such as Red Hat, CentOS, Ubuntu.  • Experience in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, tables, views, triggers.  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools such as JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Good Experience with PEP-8 and Google coding Guidelines in Python.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modeling Language tools.  • Great understanding of Document Object Model and DOM functions and DOM manipulations.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Familiar and developed JSON based REST Web services.  • Extensive use of Virtualization using Oracle Virtual Box and VMWare.  • Experience in documenting and maintaining reports and helping with software release process.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and fit well in fast paced environment. Work Experience Python Developer AIG is multinational financial and Insurance Corporation - Hartford, CT November 2017 to Present This project is to build web application based on Python, Django and ReactJs for Life & Retirement includes Group Retirement, Individual Retirement, Life, and Institutional Markets    Responsibilities:  • Developed single page web application using Python, Django, ReactJS, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed reaching one or more AWS EC2 instances.  • Developed user interface by using the React.js, Flux for SPA development.  • Involved in responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Used React.js for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  • Wrote python scripts to backup and recovery of SQL files.  • Built python scripts to secure sensitive data and password hashing.  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MongoDB source database using pymongo.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the Django ORM.  • Written Python Scripts to parse the XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed JSON based rest API using Django Rest API Framework.  • Create admin pages with filters add, edit and delete functionalities.  • Participate in Agile and scrum environment which includes daily standup and sprint planning.  • Developed automation framework using python selenium for the web application.  • Performed cross platform and cross browser automation testing on Firefox, Chrome, Edge and Safari.  • Create test cases and test scenarios for unit testing and integration testing.  • Wrote python unit test scripts using nosetests.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Wrote form validations for UI elements using JavaScript.  • Created Class based views for reusability with django forms and url endpoints.  • Used ReactJs axios ajax calls to get, post, delete REST API calls.  • Involved in code review and UAT for the modules built on daily basis.  • Worked on CI/CD environment on deploying application to Docker containers.  • Extensive use of Jira, Git, Pycharm, CentOS.    Environment: Python, Django, React Js, MySQL, MongoDb, Pymongo, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Python Developer Live Tv - Melbourne, FL October 2015 to November 2017 Description: Primary roles and responsibilities are to develop and maintain web application framework which also includes web scraping, automated test framework using Python, Django and MySql    Responsibilities:  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Develop and maintain automated tests using Python and the Robot test framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Implemented several Socket, TCP/IP, UDP programs to retrieve data from various data centers.  • Built python framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used Python in-built libraries urllib2 and beautiful soup modules for web scraping.  • Developed Python scripts to store read and write data to CSV files.  • Developed scripts to read and dump data to MySQL database.  • Developed Python application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting  • Worked on Python Open stack API's, used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Wrote scripts in Python for Extracting Data from JSON and XML files.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were Maintained main source of data  • Worked in Agile and scrum environment which includes daily standup and sprint planning.  • Implemented automation script using Crontab in python to run the web crawler.  • Used cURL for web scraping contents that cannot be scraped normally.  • Wrote python scripts to read and write from csv files to database using Django ORM.  • Used R-Analytics for analyzing data and plotting Pie Charts, Bar Charts, Box plots, Histograms, Line Graphs, Scatter plots.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Implemented Google Python Coding Style and PEP-8 while working with various teams.  • Built python frameworks using Numpy and Pandas for data analysis.    Environment: Python, Django, nose, Robot framework, IPC, TCP, UPD, Linux, Git, Stash, Jira, Confluence, Ubuntu, PyCharm, Pylint, PEP-8. Python Developer DHL - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2013 to September 2015 Description: DHL is a logistics company. This project is to build logistics and inventory tracking for interstate goods and supply chain management.    Responsibilities:  • Developed web application using python and flask.  • Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python.  • Redesigned and developed UI components using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Built JSON serialized data to transfer data between end points.  • Developed automation scripts to test storage appliances in Python.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Wrote Python scripts to XML documents and load the data in the database.  • Used standard Python modules Flask jinja2 for development.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Implemented applications in JavaScript and MYSQL.  • Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.  • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Built unit test framework using python pyunit test framework for automation testing.  • Wrote SQL Views, Triggers and Stored Procedures for data manipulation for MySQL database.  • Wrote python automation testing using selenium webdriver across Chrome, Firefox and IE browsers.  • Implemented zoom in, zoom out, drag and drop functionalities using JavaScript and jQuery for touch screens and cursor controls.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  • Developed exception handling mechanisms using python exception handling.  • Developed cron jobs for automating task and deployment.  • Worked in multi-tier architecture to develop applications in Agile environment.  • Extensively used Git as a source control repository.  • Knowledge in creating user stories and filed bugs using Jira.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.    Environment: Python, Flask, Jinja2, Pycharm, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, BootStrap, MySql, Selenium, PyUnit, Linux, Git, Confluence. Software Developer Kotak Mahindra Bank - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2011 to September 2013 Description:The project is to develop Web application for Retirement Plan Payments (RPP) to select, modify, and delete existing or new plans. This also allows users to manage their investments online to get the best market rates instantly    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, development, testing and deployment.  • Responsibilities include database design, code profiling and extensive documentation  • Designed and implemented a dynamic image rendering which is consumed by PHP, JavaScript.  • Designed a Java application from the ground up that allows system administrators to configure and monitor an entire environment.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Developed dynamic dashboard shows live configuration of electric water or gas meters like voltage, current and other data points using Java, Spring, Hibernate.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed front-end web applications in Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript for implementing requirements of a financial accounting system, handling end to end software development.  • Attended everyday Enterprise Workflow Stand-Up meeting to provide current status.  • Used Git as source control management.  • Analyzed, troubleshot and implemented quick fixes real-time to critical monthly production run to update and ensure compliance in reporting.  • Played a vital role in team to ensure the time bound delivery.    Environment: Java, MySQL, HTML, JavaScript, Git, Web Services, CSS, Bootstrap, Eclipse. Education Bachelors in Computer Science and Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills CSS (7 years), DATABASE (7 years), Git (7 years), HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years) Additional Information Skill Set:  Languages - Python, C, C++, PHP, Java  Web technologies -ReactJs, AngularJs, HTML, JavaScript, ES6, jQuery, Ajax, CSS, Bootstrap, XML  Web frameworks -FLASK, DJANGO, Nodejs  Web server -APACHE SERVER, Apache HTTP, IIS 6.0  Database -ORACLE, MySQL, SQLite, PostGRE, MS SQL SERVER  Editors -Notepad++, Sublime text 3, PyCharm, PyDev, vi, vim  UML Modeling -Rational Rose, UML, StarUML  Networking - FTP, IPC, TCP/IP, UDP, ZeroMQ  Operating system -Mac OS X, Ubuntu, CentOS, Red Hat, Windows  Virtualization tools -VMware Workstation 10/11, Oracle Virtual Box  CI/CD -Jira, Git, Stash, SVN, Confluence, Jenkins, Bamboo, Docker