Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Athene Annuity and Life Company Des Moines, IA Work Experience Python Developer Athene Annuity and Life Company March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:   • Worked on loading data from one data source to another sources (SQL dbs, NOSQL dbs, Jenkins).  • Supported End-to-End for prediction of likelihood and cost of insurance claims • The goal of this project is to better predict Liability Insurance claim payments based on the characteristics of the insured customer.  • Development of code in Python and move developed code into Company's Source control BitBucket and Deploy into Company's Sever using CI/CD procedures like Jenkins on Scrum-basis.  • Python Code always match the Company's guidelines also follows PEP8 and PyLint acceptance criteria.  • Document each process and publish in Company's Confluence portal.  • Create Batch jobs using python and schedule jobs via Control-M Automation workload scheduler.  • Develop Complex queries on different flavors of Relational Databases like MySQL, RDS-MySQL, Oracle, Postgresql.  • Write Complex SQL Queries using Python Libraries cx_Oracle, Psycopg2 and Implement Data Security and Protection as well integrate Data Storage Solutions.  • Debug complex queries for Performance Evaluation and ability to work on tasks assigned in JIRA.  • Perform manual test execution, Sanity, Functional, Retesting, System, Smoke testing Unit, Integration Testing on existing & new code also mentoring team where ever necessary. Write Automation test cases using Python-Selenium.  • Documenting the project using Microsoft Visio tool UML Use-Case diagrams (IBM Rational Rose XDE) and Troubleshooting identified bugs and providing documentation on resolution and workarounds.  • Perform loading procedures to load data into cloud sources like AWS and salesforce using python.  • Use Server-Side logic to integrate User-facing elements and identify various opportunities to improve efficiency and functionality.  • Work with Connection Oriented, Connection Less Protocols and File Transfer Protocols (TCP, UDP, DHCP, SMTP, HTTPS, FTP, SFTP) and support authentication and authorization procedures using OKTA, SAML, OAuth2.0, AD.  • Work closely with Testing Teams and Business Analysts to ensure that requirements are delivering correctly in a timely manner.  • Used modules such as Pandas, Time Series Forecast, Regression, Decision Trees, Flask.  • Worked on Time Series Analysis using ARIMA Model.  • Fulfilled all data science duties for a high-end capital management firm.  • Created and presented models for potential holdings to fund managers. Achieved 20% better returns vs historical performance.  • Created machine learning tools that computed adjusted P/E values.  • Predicted stock price 25% better than traditional figures.  • Deployed the models to cloud functions.  • Training the Statistical Model for the Previous data and Predicting the Liability Insurance claim payments    Environment: Python, Django, AWS, Dynamodb, Pandas, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Linux, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Sublime Text, Jira, Git, Django-cms, SSO, Bootstrap, Agile, GitLAB, UML, XML. Python Developer WALGREENS November 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:   • Worked on developing Django Web Application designed to accumulate data from different sources and different source types(Xml, JSON, Plain Textfiles, SQL DBs and Nosql DBs).  • Implemented using Default Django session middleware.  • Used modules such as Requests, Xmlrd, Pandas, and Beautiful soup.  • Experience in reviewing Python code for running the troubleshooting test-cases and bug issues.  • Involved in the development of the application using Python 3.3, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM) • Designed front end using UI tools like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation • Design and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Linux, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Sublime Text, Jira, Git, Django-cms, SSO, Bootstrap, Agile, GitLAB, UML, XML. PYTHON DEVELOPER Ness Technologies - IN December 2012 to August 2016 Responsibilities:   • Developed a region-specific SMS delivering system, based on AWS SNS, Google Maps API, Flask.  • Actively involved in requirement gathering and analysis period of the project in recording the business requirements by leading workshops/gatherings with different business clients.  • Working cross-functionally to ensure proper functionality and delivery.  • Developed backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Composed python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database. Maintain a solid understanding of MySQL database.  • Implemented Cross Site Scripting, CSRF and SQL injection for security and data protection.  • Develop scalable applications and to effectively manage technology -tradeoffs and risks.  • Design database structures and develop/tune data access utilizing SQL Server by creating Flask based ORM.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Flask Database API's to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files.  • Handled RESTful services with the help of python library URLLIBS.  • Closely analyzed the database tables using sequel pro tool of MySQL to resolve integrity issues.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Deployed the entire code using Linux parameters of the virtual machines for UAT phase.  • Collaborate with key stakeholders and project managers to design, develop, integrate, test, document and implement the system.    Environment: Python 2.7, Flask, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JIRA, GIT. JAVA Application Developer Shell Info Technologies Private Ltd November 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities: • Responsible for maintaining the code quality, coding and implementation standards by code reviews.  • Used Oracle Database for persisting the data.  • Implemented persistence mechanism using Hibernate (ORM Mapping).  • Responsible for mapping the database model into persistence objects using Hibernate Annotations.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring, Hibernate, Template support.  • Developed various business logic and reports using HQL and Hibernate Criteria.  • Created various unit test cases and integration tests for the DAO and Service using JUnit.  • Integrated log4j for logging the messages at debug and error level.  • Used Oracle BEA Weblogic suite 10.3 for developing and deploying the application.  • Used Weblogic workshop, Eclipse IDE, XML Spy to develop the application.  • Used SVN version controller to maintain the code versions.  • Used Maven build tool to build the application.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Visio, UML, JSP, Servlet, Struts, JDBC, Hibernate, Oracle PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Ant, Agile, Eclipse, XML, XSLT, MS Visual Source Safe, Checkstyle, Clover Cenqua, Tomcat, Weblogic Application Server, MS Windows, UNIX. Education Bachelor's Skills AWS (6 years), database (6 years), Django (6 years), Git (6 years), SQL (7 years), Javascript