Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Nielsen Tampa, FL • Over 6+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and implementation of various stand-alone and client-server enterprise applications.  • Good Experience in python programming in application development over several years.  • Experienced in development of web based applications using Python.  • Experienced in server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Strong Experience on OOPS (Object Oriented Programming) concepts.  • Experienced in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle.  • Expertise in SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance (Bulk Binds, Materialized views, Inline views, Global Temporary Tables).  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts such as procedure, function, trigger etc.  • Strong hands on knowledge of UNIX & Linux environments.  • Expertise in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Experienced in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, Notepad++ and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  • Expertise in Unix and Linux Kernels (file validations, file downloads, workflow executions).  • Excellent expertise in debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills  • Expertise in writing Stored Procedures, Cursors, Functions and performed data analysis using PL/SQL  • Excellent expertise in verbal and written skills, especially with regards to presenting findings to both technical and nontechnical audiences.  • Expertise knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Strong experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, emacs.  • Experienced in implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django, MYSQL.  • Experience in documenting and maintaining reports and helping with software release process.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Nielsen - Tampa, FL August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of applications, Creating UI using Java script and HTML5/CSS.  • Hands on Knowledge on XML, SOAP, CPS, Message Queue based communications.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Designing the MDM integration facilities (SOA-style)  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Built AJAX pages using PHP and created various asynchronous web applications.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplot library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping .ss  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that are main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Develop SOAP client for testing MDM to SAP R/3 interoperation  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Worked with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire life cycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3. Python Developer HP Inc - San Diego, CA November 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by plugins or feeds under PHP, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery Technology.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Used JQuery for all client side Java script manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and implementation and support.  Environment: Python, Django, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Oracle 11.2, Linux, Django, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python developer 84.51 LLC - Cincinnati, OH January 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, Nodes JS, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  • Used Django APIs for database access  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built logic application using Python.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files using underscore JS.  • Parsed XML file using Python to extract data from database  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs and Java implementation on given project  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used PHP language on lamp server to develop page.  • Used Flex for validation of request response and schema  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic-2014, using SQL developer tools  Environment: Python, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server, PHP, Lamp, underscore JS. SQL developer tool, Flex., Apache Cassandra. Software developer Zensar Technologies - IN June 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, design and architecture of the application  • Worked on requirement gathering and High level design  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Used HTML/CSS, XML and JavaScript for UI development  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python, MySQL  • Generated Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login and signup of online users  • Experience in development test automation  • Designed and Implemented a Random Unique Test Selector Package on processing large volume of data using Python and Django ORM  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects  • Designed email marketing campaigns and also created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects  • Created data base tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and also conducted meetings among peer  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization  • Used Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web applications and report on daily progress    Environment: Python, Django 1.4, Jenkins, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (5 years), DATABASE (5 years), DJANGO (5 years), MYSQL (5 years), PYTHON (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Java, shell scripting.    Operating Systems Windows 98/2000/XP/7,8, ,Mac OS, UNIX and Linux, Debian, Ubuntu  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and CSS Bootstrap.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, PyJamas, Jython, Angular JS, Node JS, Spring, Hibernate  Python Libraries ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib,HTTPLib2, Urllib2,Beautiful Soup, Pickle, Pandas  Cloud Services Amazon Web services, Google app Engine, Salesforce.  IDE'S Sublime Text 2, Vim, Pycharm, PyDev, Netbeans, Eclipse  Database MySQL, Sqlite3, Sybase, DB2, Postgresql,Cassandra, Redis  Web Servers Apache HTTP webserver, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat  Analytics Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, NodeXL  Deployment tools Heroku, Amazon EC2, Jenkins and Fabric  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, REST  Version Control Systems CVS, SVN, Git and GitHub.  Agile Methodologies TTD, SCRUM  Other Tools Used Eclipse, ANT Build, SQL Developer, Visual Studio, Putty.