Co-Owner / Developer Co-Owner / <span class="hl">Developer</span> Denver, CO Work Experience Co-Owner / Developer Electric Chili Company - Denver, CO May 2017 to Present A startup consultancy that provides a wide range of solutions based on client needs. This is on a per project basis and our team can take on projects without needing my assistance - making this a part-time, optional workload. Most recent work was lead on omnigage.com. Python Developer Data Plate LLC - Denver, CO November 2017 to May 2018 Built a tool for inputting inventory items automatically into a Restaurant Back Office Management Software, pulling data from an easy-to-fill workbook. The client uses the workbook to drag-fill properties for many items at once and my tool pulls the information, interacts with the restaurant software, and inputs all the data into their database. This speeds up the time for inventory input by an estimated 70%. Restaurants with thousands of inventory items can save a lot of time. Python Developer David Garbs - Larimer Associates - Denver, CO March 2016 to May 2018 Automation script that populates Excel spreadsheets with previous-day sales information from POS system of 5 different restaurants and emails the spreadsheets out for investment partners, managers, etc... based on different email groups. Python Developer Selmo Corporation - Orlando, FL March 2013 to February 2016 Automation and sorting of client bills for a property management company owned by family members. This used OCR to read searchable PDFs and sort them by keywords, renaming and archiving in each client's folders for bookkeeping. I also worked for the company for a few years after assisting in other IT issues. Education Bachelor of Science in (B.S.) Biochemistry University of Florida August 2012 Skills Adobe Illustrator (Less than 1 year), CSS (4 years), HTML (4 years), Python (4 years), JavaScript (2 years), Adobe Photoshop (5 years), WordPress (3 years), PHP (1 year) Additional Information Languages: English, Spanish, Portuguese