Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Liberty Mutual Insurance Boston, MA • Around 8+ years of experience as a Software/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Perl, C/C++, Sieve, lua and basics of Java,  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Hands on experience in using Python to implement and maintain various mail receipt and delivery standards to prevent phishing attacks against customers.  • Extensive experience in using Python/Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  • As a part of email routing team at Rackspace, I have had an intermediate experience in writing scripts in Sieve/lua for email scanning and monitoring.  • Developed code in Python/Perl with latest tools like MongoDB, RabbitMQ to handle/manage data.  • Worked on version control tools like GIT to maintain and deploy code and has also been involved in creating modules for company's designed pipeline architecture to make it efficient and precise.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Working knowledge of Deep Learning Python libraries.  • Expert Knowledge and experience in Object Oriented Design and programming concepts.  • Email filtering: Wrote and managed various Sieve scripts for email filtering. This involved scanning the inbound and outbound emails using Cyren.  • Used SQL to store the required data related to the activities of the mailboxes and process them as required.  • Create, manage and update various SQL tables used for storing the activities and actions related to the mailboxes. These tables were then utilized to store history of actions on a mailbox, take specific actions against any abusive activity or similar operations.  • Used Django framework for our project with web developer team.  • Ansible scripts were used to setup deployment on our development and production servers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Boston, MA December 2014 to Present • Involved in understanding and analysing the client's business, requirements for the system.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Improved the application by designing and developing it using HTML and JavaScript.  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery and worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash, I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Experience in agile environment using a CI/CD model methodology.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of data.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Used Jenkins to build and troubleshoot automated testing.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python. Sr. Python Developer Dell Computer Corporation - Boston, MA August 2012 to November 2014 • Implemented Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • Developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python. Designed test cases and authored test plans.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications. Unit testing with JavaScript and node.js.  • Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed and tested HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js that meets accessibility and web browser standards for car dealerships websites.  • Worked on Angular 2 for front-end development and NodeJS for backend development.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed JSPs, Servlets and custom tags for creating user interfaces and worked on Spring JMS, MDB for listeners, Message Broker for routing the messages.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using SVN version control system.  • Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the Node.js environment.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration. Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Wrote JSX code in updating the React DOM and also worked with states and props in initializing the child components using this set method.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, Spring Hybernate, Javascript, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra    • Designed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Developed a high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT), Perl, Python scripting.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript and designed the J2EE components of the RESTful Web Services and scheduled Java batch jobs based application in UML.  • Performed bootstrapping and modularizing of an application with Angular JS injector and gathered all requirements for developing and analysing requirement of projects.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using python scripts and integrated activate catalog to get parts using JMS.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlet under J2EE Environment and implemented security features for the APIs.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for presentation and data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Designed and Developed the parsers for parsing xmls and jsons using jackson, JAXB and developed the controller Servlet to handle the requests and responses.  Environment: Python, Django, NodeJs, AngularJs EmberJS, ReactJs, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra Python Developer AT&T - New York, NY January 2010 to July 2012 • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment. Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Programming in Python as well as Perl  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra Software Developer Aetna - Seattle, WA February 2008 to December 2009 • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Involved in Using AWS Cloud Watch performed Monitoring, customized metrics and file logging.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib and urllib2 for web crawling and Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL and Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Worked with shell scripts to build wrapper around ETL to do one time historic load.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser and Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework and Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux and Created data pipelines using Apache Spark, a big-data processing and computing framework.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX and Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.    Environment:- Python 2.4, Django, CSS, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT. Education Masters of Engineering in Computer Science University of Chicago