Fullstack Developer Fullstack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fullstack Developer - FoodCrave Pleasanton, CA • Around 6+ years of experience as a Software Developer and coding with analytical programming and client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django and flask, MySQL, Unix and Linux, JavaScript, XML.  • Proficient in Object oriented design experience, with extensive experience of Python-C/C++ binding using Boost Python and Python C types.  • Hands on experience in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Worked on File Handling and SSH (Secure Shell).  • Working knowledge of error and exception handling debugging using PDB, Eclipse and Pycharm.  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with Bigdata.  • Experience in planning, designing, developing and implementation in the area of Amazon Web Services(AWS).  • Experienced in Agile and Waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Worked on Python and C++ modules using Pyrex and Cython.  • Developing new functional capabilities within software applications to meet a wide range of customer requirements, operational needs, facilitate testing needs and integration between components. Using Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Object Oriented Design (OOD) methodologies, C++, Java, XML, Python 3.1.2, MS Visual Studio 2008  • Experience with Docker, deployment of application inside software containers.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Excellent Debugging, Problem Solving, Optimization and Testing Skills. Work Experience Fullstack Developer FoodCrave - San Ramon, CA August 2015 to Present DESCRIPTION: FoodCrave is food ordering application which allows user to order food online and to be delivered at residence or business. FoodCrave has an mobile as well as an web application. The custom application has many features like the restaurant login, customer login, Delivery driver modules and the Admin logins.    Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the admin application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for all issues and enhancements of the Admin module.  • Worked on AngularJS for the client facing application.  • Used the Restful API and the Angular frontend.  • Developed Restful microservices using Flask and Python and deployed on Heroku server.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template Language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Develop consumer based features using Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Increased the speed of pre-existing search indexes through DJango ORM optimizations.  • Developed a module to build Django ORM queries that can pre-load data to greatly reduce the number of databases queries needed to retrieve the same amount of data.  • Python app which analyzed activity and response times, code deployment and environment migration done in Amazon AWS. Quick access to Amazon API. Rendered Dashboard which provided important milestone Metrics. Reduced the release cycle overhead by half.  • Deployed and managed a private puppet infrastructure in AWS to deploy application.  • Worked extensively on the Frontend with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Flask, Angular 1.57, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, GitHub, Angular.JS, JIRA. Python Developer General Electric Digital - San Ramon, CA June 2014 to July 2015 DESCRIPTION: GE Digital is one of the largest Electric Company. Now, they started in App and web services designing. The main focus is in Asset performance management, manufacturing, cyber security and many more web services.  Responsibilities:  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Automation of unit testing using Python.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytic which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. CSV, Robot parser, Iter tools, Pickle, Jinja2, Xml for development.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Wrote Python library files to autopopulate optimal zoom, polygon and tile info for the POIs testcase files. This automation process reduces at least 50% of the manual effort.  • Wrote a parser in Python to convert numerous types of tile testcase files to/from csv files, thus enabling QAs to directly modify in csv/excel, saving overall QA time.  • Sole engineer to build an App Engine application in Python / jQuery / CSS / Cloud SQL together improvements ideas on existing workflows from all vendor staffs around the world.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using Python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Experience configuring AWS S3 and their lifecycle policies and to backup files and achieve files in Amazon Glacier.  • Applied ETL for better system behavior and getting Best result with Database..  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla and Selenium IDE.  • Conducted trainings for a group of employees about infrastructure management using AWSservices.  • Developed webservices using Resteasy and Hibernate frameworks.  • Developed inventory management system using SpringMVC frameworks.    Environment: Python, Django, Resteasy, SpringMVC, Hibernate, Linux, HTML, CSS, MongoDB, Web services, SVN, Pandas, Bugzilla Python Developer October 2013 to April 2014 DESCRIPTION: This application was designed to help the sales person take the survey of the Healthmart franchise store. The sales representative used to fill the forms and come back and upload the responses on the sales force system. There was an unnecessary effort put because Salesforce UI was not compatible with tablets they carried, and did not support any offline usage. So a new tablet web application was developed to give a rich interface with offline connectivity fix for each sales representative to handle the application.  Responsibilities:  • Used Python and DJango to develop the Web modules.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MongoDB.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • File handling for the client data in files like .txt file, .xlxs file for data retrieve and storing purpose.  • Graphical data representation using Numpy, SciPy, Pandas, Pygal  • Worked on C++ and Python using Pyrex and Cython programming  • Data Exchanges and sorting as per customer requirement between Database and Files like Text file to Excel file and vice versa  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Bugzilla, C++, Java, Mongodb, SQL server, Linux, Eclipse, Shell, File handling, SSH, UNIX, Pandas Jr. Python Developer LUPIN LTD - GUJARAT, IN June 2010 to July 2013 DESCRIPTION: Lupin Limited is a transnational Pharmaceutical company. And the company was created with a vision to fight life-threatening infectious diseases and to manufacture drugs of the highest social priority. I have worked in the Software development division. Worked on various projects using Php, Djnago, Python softwares.    Responsibilities:  • Used Django database API's to access database objects.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and MatPlotLib.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Wrote programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Create Cassandra database to handle the user's data (server-client).  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developing and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user.  • Utilized various IDEs and internal debug tools during debugging.  • Analyzing the data in design database.  • Maintenance of legacy application that where developed in Php.  • Develop modules based on CodeIginitor, an MVC based PHP framework.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, GIT, CSS, JavaScript and Apache Web Server. Education B.Tech in Computer Science Pune University 2010 Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Language: Python 2.7/3.5, C++, HTML  • Python Framework: Django, Flask, Pandas.  • Database: MySQL,Mongodb, Cassandra  • Version Control: Git, SVN  • Web Technologies: CSS, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, AWS, RESTFul Web Services  • Other Tools: Pycharm, IDE, Putty, SQL developer, JIRA  • Operating System: Windows, Linux, Unix