Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer San Jose, CA Work Experience Python Developer Vern Fonk Insurance - Portland, OR March 2018 to Present Responsibilities: ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Used Python, Django and Pyramid frameworks to develop applications and responsible for both back-end programming and front-end functionality using Ajax, Angular.JS, and other technologies.  ? Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Angular JS.  ? Created User Controls and simple animations using Python.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python to view Circuit parameters and performance.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  ? Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  ? Maintained version control of Python by using GIT. (Merge, Branch, Push, and Commit).  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, XHTML, XML, GitHub, Flash, SQLite, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer Pennymac - Westlake Village, CA April 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities: ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Worked on front end frame works like Bootstrap for responsive webpages and AngularJS for Single page application.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code ? Using GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.  Environment: Python, Django, PYQT, XML, Angular JS, JQuery, DOM, JSON, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, Rest, MY SQL, GIT, Windows and LINUX. Python Developer Cotelligent India Private Limited April 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities: ? Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  ? UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  ? Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Use Git for version control.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Trained users and did production support.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. SQL Developer MAQ software - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities: • Created views to restrict access to data in a table for security.  • Worked as a developer in creating Complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Indexes, Tables and other T-SQL code and SQL joins for applications.  • Designed, reviewed, and created primary objects such as views, indexes based on logical design models, user requirements and physical constraints.  • Designed SQL SSIS Packages to extract data from various data sources and used SSIS transformations.  • Created unit test cases based on Requirement Specifications and Functional design documents.  • Updated Technical Specification document and code review document on daily basis. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science JNTUK 2005 to 2009 Skills Ajax (4 years), Django (4 years), Git. (4 years), Html (4 years), Sql (5 years), MySQL