Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Fremont, CA • 6+ years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, Django, C++, Javascript, Java.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and Django.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML5/CSS3, AngularJS, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience in developing python scripts for automation and performing functional tests and data validation.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and in Python Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Experience in developing the RESTful API'S service using Python Django framework.  • Strong knowledge in MongoDB concepts - CRUD operations and aggregation framework  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Hands on Experience with parallel computing, multithreading, Experience with JSON based REST Web services  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills. Work Experience Python Developer Intuit Inc - San Diego, CA October 2017 to March 2018 Worked on Test Execution Platform provides Selenium Grid as service for WebUI and Mobile UI and tester API for WebServices testing as well as Jenkins infrastructure.  • Developed entire backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Django.  • Developed Python scripts using multithreading module.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Developed responsive UI using HTML5/CSS3 and Javascript  • Responsible for writing test plans and executing tests via automation and manually.  • Developed database layer including Tables and Stored procedures in MYSQL.  • Ported parts of application on cloud using AWS.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project and used JIRA to keep track of the development changes.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Created the Automation scripts using Python for testing applications as well as the integration of these application (API's &UI's) based on REST calls using Python, phrasing the JSON responses.  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, Amazon EC2, Amazon SQS, S3, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS JQuery, JavaScript, Apache. Python Developer AutoNation - Los Angeles, CA December 2015 to October 2017 Worked on development of Buy-Selling of Cars and other items for AutoNation. The buy and sell modules lets the seller's list their items they want to sell and the buyers can directly contact them. The car sales module allows you to build your own car and get the pricing. It also has an option to buy used cars.  • Worked on Test Execution Platform provides Selenium Grid as service for WebUI and Mobile UI and tester API for WebServices testing as well as Jenkins infrastructure  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed and deployed REST web services consumed by multiple applications  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Set up Python REST API Framework using Django.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Git for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, and Linux. Python Developer Shark Technologies - Ahmedabad, Gujarat July 2014 to December 2015 • Implemented an admin tool for report generation and sent to Business users to improve their decision-making.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed and deployed REST web services consumed by multiple applications  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for testing the functionality of the application.  • Set up Python REST API Framework using Django.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Used Git for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache and Linux. Software Developer Intern Shark Technologies - Ahmedabad, Gujarat January 2012 to June 2014 • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Git.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and Apache Web Server Education Technology Ganpat University June 2012 Skills Apache. (6 years), Django (6 years), HTML (6 years), Javascript (6 years), Linux (6 years) Additional Information SKILLS    Languages Python 2.7/2.4, C++, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django 1.3/1.4  Development Tools AWS, Docker, Jenkins, Git, PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime, Android Studio  Python Libraries Pandas, urllib, unittest  Database MySQL, SQL Server 2008, PostgreSQL, Amazon AWS cloud, Amazon Cloud EC2, Amazon SQS, Amazon S3  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS, BootStrap, Javascript, pyQT, pY2EXE, HTML, DHTML, HTML, XML  Versioning Tools Git, Mercurial, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Applications/Web Servers Apache, IIS  Operating systems Linux/Unix, MAC OS