Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Northern Trust Chicago, IL Professional Backend Developer with 6 years of experience. Worked specifically with Python. Developed applications using Django framework and MySQL database design. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Northern Trust - Chicago, Illinois, US June 2017 to Present Project Description:  Northern Trust Corporation is a financial services company that caters to corporations, institutional investors, and high net worth individuals. It has three main areas of business: asset servicing, wealth management and asset management. Worked on a tool based on asset servicing needs for the clients. The tool helps people track, manage and support their fixed assets throughout their life cycle.  Responsibilities: ? Involved in different Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Development and Testing using Agile Methodology.  ? Outlined and created transactions and persistence layers to insert/retrieve/modify information for application functionalities utilizing Django, JSON and PostgreSQL.  ? Parsed JSON data for backend solutions.  ? Worked with various version controls like GIT, SVN.  ? Database manipulation is done by using Django database API along with MySQL.  ? Created tables, stored procedures, triggers and views.  ? UnitTest Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  ? Developed remote integration using with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  ? Used python module named Pandas for data manipulation.  ? Using version control tool - GitHub with Jenkins to accumulate all the work done by team members.  ? Worked on front end technologies like HTML, CSS and Bootstrap. Python Developer Dun & Bradstreet - Los Angeles, CA, US January 2016 to May 2017 Project Description:  The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation is a company that provides commercial data, analytics, and insights for businesses. Worked on a web application for Credit Monitoring Tool using Python and Django. The data representation is displayed through a user friendly UI.    Responsibilities: ? Actively involved in requirement gathering, application development, testing and maintenance phases.  ? Calculating the company's credit and managing the general D&B report by accessing information like late payments to a vendor, creditor or lender.  ? Developed entire backend modules using Python and Django Web Framework.  ? Composed python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  ? Created REST APIs using Django Rest Framework to send data to user interface.  ? Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  ? Developed an algorithm to calculate the business credit based on loans and credit history.  ? Worked with UNIX/LINUX environment and familiar with all its commands.  ? Utilized Agile Methodology and SCRUM process.  ? Used version control tools like GIT.  ? Successfully worked on the python packages like NumPy and Pandas.  ? Configured and deployed project using the Amazon EC2 on AWS.  ? Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for integration and unit testing.  ? Writing modules in Python to connect to MongoDB and doing CRUD operations with MongoDB. Python Developer SpartanNash - Grand Rapids, MI, US July 2014 to December 2015 Project Description:  SpartanNash is the fifth largest food distributor in the United States. They also are a leading distributor of grocery products to U.S military commissaries. Currently working in the Food Distribution department for sales progression tool responsible for keeping in check the progress of retailers by analyzing the sales and profits. The tool offers real-time reports on cash flow, inventory, customer buying behavior and profitability.  Responsibilities: ? Participating in requirement assembling, analyzing project period in recording business requirements by meetings with Internet Marketing Team and utilizing Agile Methodologies and SCRUM.  ? Using Django Class based views, created several views and forms for handling the order management.  ? Integra Django Rest Framework in the project to make data serialized efficiently.  ? Successfully worked on the third party libraries like Pandas and Pickle.  ? Implemented solutions to prevent Cross Site Scripting, CSRF and SQL injection for security and data protection.  ? Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  ? Experienced Django Debugging Toolbar to analyze query timing and make them faster.  ? Closely analyzed the database tables using MySQL database.  ? Used GIT as version control system for the application.  ? Integrated with MongoDB for retrieving the data in the form of JSON using AJAX.  ? Performed unit testing to test functionality, utilizing PyUnit.  ? For creating use cases, bug tracking and project monitoring purposes used JIRA. Backend developer Urjakart - Delhi, DELHI, IN May 2012 to June 2014 Project Description:  Urjakart is a business to business marketplace of it's kind where you can buy directly from India manufactures, suppliers, importers offering a wide range in tools, lights, construction supplies, electrical & industrial supplies. I was part of the backend team that was responsible to maintain the database.  Responsibilities: ? Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python ? Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Handled the security content and issues.  ? Created and modified required views/tables/triggers using MySQL and worked on database bug fixes ? Experience solving the compatibility issues.  ? Developed HTML, CSS and JavaScript to present Client side GUI.  ? Developed Detail Design and Technical Design Document, Designed unit Test Plans. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (5 years), Django (6 years), HTML (5 years), MySQL. (5 years), Python (6 years) Additional Information KEY COMPETENCES  ? Experienced with full software development life cycle of the projects including Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  ? Strong experience using Web Services and REST API's in python.  ? Strong experience in developing web applications using Model View Control (MVC) Django framework and Flask  ? Experience with Django Authentication modules with custom modifications as needed.  ? Proficient in various DBMS like MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB and Oracle.  ? Used python packages like NumPy, Pandas, Pickle etc.  ? Experienced in working with various Python Integrated development Environment like PyCharm, Eclipse and Sublime.  ? Developed and deployed frontend web applications using XML, CSS, HTML/HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process.  ? Experienced with UNIX/Linux environments  ? Experience with unit test and debugging skills.  ? Performed unit testing to test functionality, utilizing PyUnit, the python unit test framework.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  ? Ability to successfully multi-task and prioritize work.  ? Experienced in using Version Control Systems like GIT and SVN.  ? Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages/Frameworks Python, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, C++, Django, Django REST, Flask  Databases/Web Servers SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, AWS, MangoDB  Development Tools PyCharm, Terminal, Sublime, Slack, Tableau  Version Controls SVN, GIT, Bitbucket  Software Methodology Agile, Scrum, Waterfall