Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Clairvoyant Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Clairvoyant - Chandler, AZ July 2014 to Present Project: Suze1on1  Description: Suze1on1 is the web application where it provides online financial lectures for the students who are enrolled in this application, the students or the users who enrolled in this application will be given access to the video lectures and also will get an access to add notes and highlights to the video lectures.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and proxy.  • Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  • Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  • Involved in presenting demos to the clients and also reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager.  • Involved in assigning the tasks to the development team.  • Involved in handling the developing team and mentoring the junior developers.  • Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Involved in deploying the code into Amazon Web Server using BOTO API.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.7, Java Script, Coffee Scripting, LESS, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. Python Developer Clairvoyant - Chandler, AZ September 2013 to June 2014 Project: S-Platform  Description: S-Platform is the platform for online education with in the universities which is going to provide different online video lectures based on the subject requirements and the academic curriculum. The students are advised to use this web link in order to get access for their online video lectures given by their appropriate professor.  Responsibilities:  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Experience in ability to package code as reusable modules by using PERL  • Experience in working with Cisco Technologies UCS, and network management devices.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Experience in working with Drag and Drop Calculation, and Geographic Search by using Tableau  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  • Hands-on experiences in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3, Git, Perl, Tableau Python Developer Perfect Limo Services - Montvale, NJ March 2012 to August 2013 Project: Perfect Chauffeurs  Description: Perfect Limo Service, Inc., has been serving the ground transportation needs of New Jersey/ New York metropolitan area residents for more than three decades. Perfect limo services can handle virtually every type of transportation assignment locally, nationally and around the globe. They have a long list of clients, ranging from top Blue Chip corporations to individual travelers, brides, and people celebrating special events. This project involves the Drivers behavior and the tracking of the fleet just basing on the analytics and advanced technology of tracking the fleet. Perfect Chauffeurs mainly concentrated on the data analytics and the performance of the fleet.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python and Django for XML, JSON processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5. Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Used TKinter to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for webScrapping.ss.    Environment: Python 2.7, Flask, Java Script, Matplotlib, HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, Oracle 10G, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, SVN, Linux, PyCharm. Software Developer Softunique Info Solutions - Bangalore, Karnataka March 2010 to March 2012 Description: SalesLogix is the platform of choice for companies strategically focused on customer engagements. Robust functionality, deep integration, and high flexibility in how the companies use and deploy their solution result in a solution that works the way they need it to. SalesLogix provides Rich customer profiles and sales productivity tools which help users identify opportunities and streamline sales activities. Simultaneously, sales management tools, analytics, and proactive alerts drive accurate forecasting as well as effective team and territory management.  Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML  documents.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Issues pertaining to Real time data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.    Environment: Python 2.x, Django 1.4, Java Script, Matplotlib, Plotly, HTML, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, Oracle, MySQL, Bootstrap, SOAP Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, SVN, Linux, Eclipse. Education Bachelors of Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNTU Skills Languages Python, C, C++, .NET and PL/SQL. Markup Languages HTML, JSON, XML. Scripting JQuery, Java Script, AJAX, Shell scripting, COFFEE, LESS Frameworks Django, Flask, Angular JS. Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, RESTful. Build Tools Ant and Maven. Version Control Tools SVN and GIT. Programming Methodologies Waterfall and Agile. Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu). Databases Oracle, MySQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB. Deployment Tools Amazon EC2, Heroku. Debuggers Pdb and gdb. IDE Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, Net beans, PyStudio. Servers Apache, HTTP Server, WebLogic. Bug Reporting Tools JIRA and Bugzilla MS Office Tools MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages Python, C, C++, .NET and PL/SQL.  Markup Languages HTML, JSON, XML.  Scripting JQuery, Java Script, AJAX, Shell scripting, COFFEE, LESS  Frameworks Django, Flask, Angular JS.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, RESTful.  Build Tools Ant and Maven.  Version Control Tools SVN and GIT.  Programming Methodologies Waterfall and Agile.    Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu).  Databases Oracle, MySQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.  Deployment Tools Amazon EC2, Heroku.  Debuggers Pdb and gdb.  IDE Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, Net beans, PyStudio.  Servers Apache, HTTP Server, WebLogic.  Bug Reporting Tools JIRA and Bugzilla  MS Office Tools MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel