Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Minneapolis, MN • Over 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies. Solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Django, flask  frame works.  • Extensive experience in Requirement Analysis, Application Design & Development and profound knowledge on SDLC using agile and V-model.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experience with containerizing applications using Docker and Vagrant.  • Skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries-Beautiful Soup, Jasy, NumPy, Scipy, MatPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas dataframe, networkX, urllib2, Pychart, Highcharts) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Expertise in developing web-based applications using libraries and frameworks like Angular JS, Bootstrap, jQuery.  • Experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB (2.6, 2.4) by installing and configuring various packages in python (Teradata, MySQL dB, MySQL connector, Pymongo and SQLAlchemy)  • Expertise in using webservices along with Big query.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM. Have good knowledge on Project management tools JIRA, Redmine and Bugzilla.  • Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and SVN.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks-PyJamas, Jytho, guidata, PyGUI, PyQt PyWebkitGtk.  • Experienced in designing high level ETL architecture, creating, configuring and fine tuning ETL workflows designed in DTS for overall data transfer from the OLTP to OLAP with the help of SSIS.  • Excellent in High Level Design of ETL, DTS Packages & SSIS Packages for integrating data using OLE DB connection from heterogeneous sources like (Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat file) by using multiple transformations provided by SSIS such as Derived column, Conditional Split, Bulk Insert, Merge and union all.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3 and trouble shooting.  • Worked extensively on Big Data analytical models developed in Python.  • Sound knowledge in Spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  • Extensive use of Object Oriented design methodology and Agile in software development.  • Extensive experience in Building web applications using Kendo UI widgets, jQuery, Angular JS.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Couch DB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Experience on Web development using HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XMLand JSON by following W3C standards.  • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Loadbalancer ELB, S3.  • Experienced in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Extensive development experience in HTML, JavaScript, SQL, XML and JSON.  • Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, Pycharm, My Eclipse, and Rational Application Developer.  • Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy&bottlePy framework.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Jenkins.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test-driven development methodologies.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer June 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  • Python's Unit Test library was used for testing code.  • Used MsSQL as backend database and MsSQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Implementation of REST web services.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Involved in design, implementation and modifying the Python code and MySQL database schema on-the back end.  • Had regular interactions with customers and gathered requirements in Big Data collation, summation, filtering and normalizing the data.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgresql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Python's Unit Test library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • To build and populate DB and to ensure the standards, the team of QA also collaborated.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used AJAX to update small portions of the web page instead of reloading the entire web page.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Used SVN for the version control.  • This project also used other technologies like jQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  • Used Docker for packaging up applications along with their necessary operating system dependencies for easier deployment across environment.  • Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  • Responsible debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Ensured the best possible performance, quality, and responsiveness of the applications.    Environment: Python 3.6, Django 1.10,1.11, MySQL, Shell Scripting, REST, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Java, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, matPlotLib, pyTest, Sublime, JIRA, SVN. Python Developer Fannie mae, VA September 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes.  • Created Use-Case diagrams and State diagrams using MS Visio.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Utilized Pyunit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Involved in writing SQL queries implementing functions, triggers, cursors, object types, sequences, indexes etc.  • Involved in development of the enterprise social network application using Python, Twisted, and Cassandra.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring frame work using Django  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Worked in Python on a SQL database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Data Pipeline as a web service to automate and transform the data..  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development  • Delivered presentations on Project Status and Current Open Issues Report to Users, Stakeholders and other involved groups.  • Cluster maintenance as well as creation and removal of nodes.  • Monitor Hadoop cluster connectivity and security  • Manage and review Hadoop log files.  • File system management and monitoring.  • Conducted weekly meetings with the development and testing team to relay any changed requirements and updates on the development and testing.  • Monitored and Reviewed Hadoop log files.  • Played a key role in the planning, testing, and implementing system enhancements and conversions.  • Worked closely with project manager in handling the whole project.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyUnit, OOAD, MS Visio, HTTP, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Java, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX Python Developer Toyota September 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Good Knowledge on Hadoop cluster architecture and monitoring the cluster.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in-built methods.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interfacing the XML format.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions  • Documented the technical specification for the reports and tested the generated reports.  • Created and managed Databases.  • Used the technical document to design tables.  • Performed data analysis, data profiling, data scrubbing, data cleansing, generated data frequency reports.  • Created Database triggers to maintain the audit data in the tables.  • Optimized the SQL queries for improved performance.    Environment: Oracle 9i, SQL* Loader, PL/SQL, SQL, Toad, XML, Eclipse, Rational Clear Case, Rational Clear Quest, Python, MySQL Junior Developer Bosch - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2009 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created business Logic using Python/flask.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Setup automated corn jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Perforce for the version control.    Environment: Python, PHP, C++, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Flask. On. Skills JAVASCRIPT (8 years), PYTHON (8 years), CSS (6 years), HTML (6 years), jQuery (6 years) Certifications/Licenses Python Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Frameworks: Django, web2py, Flask, Struts, pylons and CSS Bootstrap.  Operating systems: Windows, Linux, Ubuntu  Languages: Python, R, Perl, Ruby  Scripting languages: CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, Shell Scripting  Analytics Tools: JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, NodeXL, MVC3  Markup languages: HTML, XML, JSON  Servers: Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, open stock, RESTful web services  Databases: Oracle, My SQL, query languages: PL, SQL, PostgreSQL, Teradata  IDEs/ Tools: Eclipse, Toad, Sublime text, Spyder, Pycharm  Revision Controlling Systems/Version control: CVS, SVN, GitHub  Methodologies & tools: Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum