SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER SR. <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER - WALT DISNEY Work Experience SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER WALT DISNEY - Orlando, FL October 2016 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Participated in all the stages of SDLC - design, development, implementation and testing.  • Developed and Architect RESTful API using Flask, SQL Alchemy ORM, and Python 3.4.  • Developed web-based applications using Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.4/1.3, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Utilized data migration for the PostgreSQL database and worked on an upgrade path for applications from South to use the latest version of Django.  • Used Github for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers, and deploying in Mesos.  • Wrote python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • To provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef and Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  • Ran data formatting scripts in python and created terabyte csv files to be consumed by Hadoop MapReduce jobs.  • Worked on AWS(Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EmR for improved efficiency of storage.  • Used JQuery, ASP.NET, AJAX toolkit controls and CSS to enhance the performance and richness to the user interface.  • Implemented HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap to make UI screens easily understandable by the users.  • Also Performed Testing Mobile Application on Android using test automation tool.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Installed Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, AWS and developed multiple MapReduce jobs in PIG and Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, Ansible and AWS Cloud Templates.  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Developed automated process for builds and deployments by using Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Shell Script.  • Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala.  • Configured and automated various AWS services like EC2 and S3 using Boto ( python sdk).  • Develop AWS Cloud Formation templates (in JSON) to automate infrastructure deployments.  • Experience in Building S3 buckets and managed policies for S3 buckets and used S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Worked extensively on fixing bugs and potential errors during Development phase and resolving post Deployment issues.  • Used the Python's modules like numpy, matplotlib, plotly and many more for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Developed Python based scripts using RESTful API techniques to retrieve specific data from database management systems.  • Involved in upgrading the present Oracle data model to Cassandra data model.  • Imported data from SQL Server and Excel to SAS datasets and performed data manipulation by merging several datasets and extracted relevant information.  • Worked PHP as a server side scripting language, for web pages.  • Installed and maintained Tomcat Apache HTTP Web servers in Linux.  • Used agile development tools and methodologies in Python, Git, PyCharm, code review.  • Developed Job dashboard monitor UI using Django/Flask.  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS for better appearance and feel. SENIOR PYTHON DEVELOPER PROFESSIONAL INSURANCE AGENCY - Jersey City, NJ July 2014 to September 2016 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 2.7 and its familiar framework Django.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Javascript, JSON and Jquery. Package.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Implementing and controlling the flow of data to and from AWS.  • Working knowledge on cross platform mobile applications  • Implemented automation script using Crontab in python to run the web crawler.  • Developed and consumed REST APIs and used JSON as payload.  • Was responsible for reviewing and checking in code on github for interns.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Wrote a program running on Apache Spark to profile the unstructured logs into structured JSON format.  • Worked on testing API using selenium package using python  • Worked on testing API using selenium package using python  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content. Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using Python Database Connector.  • Migrate on premise database to AWS Cloud and also designed, built, and deployed a multitude applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, R53, S3, RDS, SNS, and IAM), by focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Involved in developing Restful services using Python Flask framework and Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Used Aptana Studio IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Worked on private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Extracted data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS data sets.  • Programed queries using Python/SQL scripts to get data from different databases such as ERP, OPLA etc and, build REST API and NoSQL queries using Flask web-framework and MongoDB.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database. PYTHON DEVELOPER GENERAL MOTORS - Detroit, MI April 2012 to June 2014 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in developing Rest-API for the web-applications using Python, HTML, XML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery and Flask web framework  • Helped with the creation of a RESTFul API using Python-Flask, integrating with Apache.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django and used migration tools.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Created and Manipulated shell scripts on Production server for backup on AWS.  • Worked on Cloud automation using AWS Cloud Formation templates.  • Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on web pages using the data from postgreSQL.  • Used SSDP discovery and standard XML/SOAP messages.  • Created tables, data manipulation and retrieval using Oracle and DB2.  • Experienced in Agile methodologies and waterfall models in Python based environment.  • Developed REST APIs to communicate information with clients.  • Worked on system integration with third party API and external data sources, developer RESTful services using Visual Studio.  • Very strong experience with command line/Linux.  • Performed parameterization of the automated test scripts in Selenium to check how the application performs against multiple sets of data Contributed in developing Automation Framework that uses Java, Selenium Web Driver and Testing.  • Extracted data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS data sets.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  • Created restful API's for various applications using open source software.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and Jquery. Package.  • Used Flask APIs for database access and use JavaScript, and MYSQL.  • Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries. JAVA DEVELOPER AL-TECH TECHNOLOGIES March 2011 to March 2012 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Developed application using core Java, J2EE and spring framework.  • Involved in requirement Analysis, documentation of high level and low level design.  • Developed SOAP WebServices using Apache CXF and Axis2 framework and deployed on Tomcat.  • Developed JAX-WS WebServices and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Managed Linux systems, both hardware and software from racking servers to OS installation, monitor and maintenance  • Migrated web service applications from Tomcat to WebSphere Application Server.  • Worked on java security like encryption, decryption, and generation of signature.  • Used EJB Query Language for all database interactions.  • Involved in implementing static and dynamic Web mapping of business logic and technical requirements.  • Collaborated with business during requirement analysis and design discussions.  • Worked on migration of light weight web applications from WebLogic to Tomcat.  • Responsible for developing the application level flow by utilizing Java, JSP and Struts.  • Responsible for developing the OS specific scripts (Shell Scripts) for automating the closing doc Process.  • Used JSP for the front-end development and JavaScript for validation.