Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Independent Health. San Jose, CA ? 4+ years of experience as a Python Developer and object-oriented programming (OOP) coding with Python, Flask, SQL.  ? Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)-Waterfall, Agile Process across various workflows (Requirement study, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance) in Web & Client/Server application development.  ? Hands-on experience in SOAP and RESTful web services.  ? Hands-on experience in relational database connections like DB-API connection management and query based access to databases like PostgreSQL and MySQL in Python.  ? Experienced in frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  ? Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  ? Expert knowledge of Object-Oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  ? Extensive experience in developing web applications using Python, Django, Flask frameworks.  ? Experience in working with several python libraries including NumPy, matplotlib, SciPy.  ? Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas data frame, for database connectivity)  ? Hands-on experience with industry-standard IDEs like PyCharm, Sublime, and NetBeans.  ? Expert at version control systems like Git.  ? Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MSSQL Server.  ? Experience in using XML, SOAP, REST web Service for inter operable software applications.  ? Experience in Agile development processes ensuring rapid and high quality software delivery.  ? Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  ? Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Work Experience Python Developer Independent Health - Buffalo, NY March 2016 to Present Description: Headquartered in Buffalo, New York, A not-for-profit health plan that continually aims to provide our community with innovative health-related products and services, which enable affordable access to quality health care. The project aims to provide the company with data to develop evidence-based health policy decisions as well.    Responsibilities:  ? Created python code to process parsed lidar csv points into relevant clearance points  ? Created C++ program to parse lidar binary bin files. Solved bugs, debugging etc.  ? Worked on React front-end to display Lidar points.  ? Wrote algorithms for clearance exceptions data.  ? Wrote Django unit tests for web application, tested if API request met response.  ? Wrote Unit test for RESTAPI using Mocklibrary, unit testing and fixture testing at system level.  ? Developed and designed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to interact with company's website.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Wrote Python code and actively participated in the procedure to automate processes.  ? Implemented Python code to fix bugs and provides upgrades to existing functionality.  ? Provided fault isolation and root cause analysis for technical problems.  ? Highly efficient in handling multi-tasking issues in a fast paced environment.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  ? Used Pandas data mining library for statistics Analysis & NumPy for Numerical analysis.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python view Circuit parameters and performance.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python, C++, Django, REST/AJAX, PostgreSQL, HTML/CSS/JavaScript, JQuery, AWS (S3, EC2, SQS), JIRA, GIT, Libraries: SciPy, NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Scikit-learn. Software Engineer ( Python) Meridian Software Technology - IN December 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solutions.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Using GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, Java, XML, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, Rest, GIT, MY SQL, Windows and LINUX. Education Master's Skills MySQL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems MS Windows, Linux/Unix  Languages Python  IDE's PyCharm  Databases SQL Server  Frameworks Django, Flask  Version Controls SVN, GitHub, Git  Methodologies Agile/Scrum