Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Affinion Group Los Angeles, CA • Over 5+ years of experience as an Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Flask/Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, MVC3, Bootstrap, RESTful, RUBY and AJAX.  • Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS.  • Strong experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla andJIRA.  • Experienced in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Experience in managing datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Experience implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django, MYSQL.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Developmental experience on Windows, UNIX, Linux platforms.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new knowledge. A person with multi-tasking and organizational skills and high ethical standards.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Affinion Group - Dublin, OH September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration services.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Set up rules and policies with a Node.js/ Python back end.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL for Linux and Windows.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python, Java, PyUnit, Pandas, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Django, Jenkins, Amazon Web Services (AWS), JSON, REST, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Git, JIRA, Perl, SQL, Agile, windows and Linux. Python Developer Regions - Birmingham, AL June 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Supported user groups by handling target-related software issues/service requests, identifying/fixing bugs.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.    Environment: Python, Django, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, HTML, DHTML, AJAX,  CSS, Open Stack API, Panda, ANT, Jenkins, Rake, JIRA, Agile, SQL, Windows. Python Developer Northern Trust Bank - Chicago, IL April 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django and SQL.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in MySQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Pandas package to retrieve and analyze data.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Participated in multiple sprint cycles, addressing requirements for UI development.  • Used decorators, list comprehensions, functional programming, unit tests, multiple staging environments, and global team remote collaboration.    Environment: Python, Django, C++, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Github, MySQL, Apache Web Server, Linux. Software Developer Jnext Development - Gujarat, IN August 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Used Git for version control.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Skills AJAX (5 years), CSS (5 years), Django (5 years), HTML (5 years), JavaScript. (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL, PHP  Python Framework Flask/Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  Databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle  Web Technologies XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, MVC3, Bootstrap, RESTful, RUBY, AJAX  Web Services SOAP, REST  Servers Apache server, NGINX    Methodologies Agile, Scrum  No-SQL Databases MongoDB, Cassandra    Operating Systems Window, UNIX, Linux