Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Staples ? 6+ years of experience as a Python Developer with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java, MEAN Stack, and Django projects.  ? Proficient in front-end development experience using Python 3.6, Django, AJAX, HTML, CSS/CSS3, XML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, AngularJS, Node JS.  ? Hands-on Experience in creating Single Page Applications (SPA), Components, Routers, Custom Directives, Pipes, Services through dependency injection using AngularJS and Angular2 + TypeScript.  ? Experience working with various Python libraries in web application development including Numpy, Scipy, PyQt, PyMongo.  ? Hands on experience in using various IDEs for Python Development including PyCharm, Eclipse PyDev, PyScripter, IDLE and experience in using various editors including Notepad++, EMACS, Sublime Text, Atom Text.  ? Experience in developing Responsive Web Application utilizing Bootstrap Grid System.  ? Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux.  ? Experience in using NoSQL databases like DynamoDB and MongoDB and in tinymce plugins for text editing and worked with web services API integration (REST, JSON and XML)  ? Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub  ? Strong familiarity with Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Methodologies in Software Development.  ? Experience with hosting on Amazon web services (AWS) EC2 instance and used Amazon S3 for shared storage.  ? Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Staples - Boston, MA July 2017 to Present Staples sells office products in stores and via the Internet and through its catalog and direct sales operations. The company also provides document management and copying services at its stores. Developed an internal web-based Labor Time Entry & Reporting application. Application is modulated to interface with a backend database; delivery of data stored through the MVC architectural framework. Specifications include implementation of daily summary page providing employee history: date and time, searchable field - filtered by date and time and employees. Functionalities also includes displaying of data log entries, designated policy manager page, authentication page providing credential validation, and employee management with CRUD functionality. I was involved in creating and designing the view pages: Implementing various data control and detail views for creating user controls.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked in comprehending and examining the client's business requirements.  ? Used Django frameworks and Python to build dynamic web pages.  ? Developed tools for monitoring and notification using Python.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MongoDB.  ? Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  ? Improved the Data Security and generated report efficiently by caching and reusing data.  ? Created application using Angular2, NodeJS, ExpressJS and HTML5/CSS3.  ? Hosted the system from AWS EC2 and S3 as a test environment and production.  ? Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  ? Developed the application using the Test Driven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular 2.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system,  ? Maintained and Updated the application in accordance to the clientele's requirement.  Environment: Python 3, Django 1.6, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, NodeJS, ExpressJS, Restful Web services, Apache spark, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Mongo DB, Eclipse. AngularJS, Python Developer Anthem Inc - Richmond, VA January 2016 to June 2017 Anthem Inc., is a health insurance provider company. The company provides wide-range of health care product including dental, vision, disability and medicare. The system is comprised of managing client's application portfolio through centralized database to connect with appropriate healthcare professionals. Further it enabled the patients to choose providers according to their previous medical history, preferences, insurance history or various medical-related details. The system also provided the user to search for various prescription option according to the desired options. The server-side security enabled the information to be protected and delivered securely. Further, the use of web-api and responsive design enabled mobile development process easily.    Responsibilities:  ? As a Developer I was responsible for the technical design, development, unit and integration testing.  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Implemented agile software development with Scrum methodology.  ? Designed and developed GUI pages using CSS, HTML, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS.  ? Implemented django framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  ? Performed form validations on the UI using django framework.  ? Involved in Developing a Restful API'S for the Angular frontend to consume.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MongoDB.  ? Good experience in various source code control tools like Git.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  Environment: Python 3, Django, JQuery, AngularJS, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, NOSQL, MongoDB, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, djangorestframework, GIT. Python Developer Morristown Medical - Center, NJ, US October 2014 to December 2015 Morristown Medical is expertise in care, heart services, orthopedics and women's health. Business goals behind this development was to Develop a new EMR (Electronic Medical Record) management application for the staff and the doctors to maintain patient medical records to make patient experience seamless. Doctors could view the patient visited history and their medications if there are any and provide patient with new prescription based on their performance. Hospital staff could see the prescription and place order for the medicines if not available in hospital inventory and they can manage those orders. Apart from that, they can make next appointments and set up reminders. Patient can also view and keep track his healing rate and medications. My main concentration was on Doctor's interface to enter patient healing details and prescriptions and handling orders module that staff handles.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Created User Interface (UI) using JavaScript, bootstrap, AngularJS and HTML5/CSS.  ? Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  ? Used jQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  ? Build MongoDB queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Bootstrap is used as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  ? Also Created Angular JS controllers, directives, models for different modules of the application.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  ? Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful.  ? Designed RESTful APIs web service for handling AJAX requests.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MongoDB, JavaScript, AngularJS, PyCharm, GIT, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, AWS S3 CLI. Python Developer Citibank - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2012 to October 2014 Citibank targets individual customers in the U.S. markets. Citibank is responsible for developing, marketing and servicing all aspects of charge and lending card products in the United States. The system I worked on is the card approval system used by the Citibank. In this application the services are grouped according to customer status, i.e. existing card members, new card members, or card members eligible for an upgrade. The application provides an easier way to access information including card benefits and product comparisons.  Responsibilities:  ? Developed the application using Agile methodology.  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  ? Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of FlashVars stored in the Django models.  ? Python/Django based web application, MySQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  ? Build development environment with JIRA.  ? Design and architect the Ad Hoc Reporting and Analytics Package Design and Configuration system, using Django.  ? MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  ? Managing the multi-tier and multi-region architecture using AWS Cloud Formation.  ? Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6.1, HTML, CSS, XML, MySQL, JIRA, JavaScript, JQuery, PyQt, CSS Bootstrap, "MS SQL Server 2014, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science IIT Jharkand Skills Django (6 years), JavaScript (6 years), jQuery (6 years), MySQL (4 years), Python (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Python 2.7/3, Java, C, SQL.  Database Mongo DB, SQL Server, MySQL  Web Technologies  Django, Flask, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular Js, Node Js, Angular 2, ExpressJS, PyUnit Web Services (Soap, Restful), Amazon Web Services like EC2, LightSail.    Tools Visual Studio, Command line, JIRA, Fiddler, GitHub, GitLab, NuGet, Photoshop