Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Home Depot Austin, TX • 7 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Maintenance and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django, C/C++, Java.  • Extensive experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) process.  • Excellent exposure to Version Control Systems like Git (DVCS) on Github/Bit Bucket.  • Good exposure in interacting with Restful web services, SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS.  • Good exposure in Test Driven Development (TDD) using Pytest, unittest and Expects.  • Strong concepts and fundamentals in Agile Methodology, Object Oriented Analysis, Design and best practices.  • Extensive experience in creating and maintaining databases which includes configuration, query optimization and implementation of ORM layer.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PostgreSQL and Redis database.  • Experience with object-oriented programming (OOPS) concepts using Python, C++ and Java.  • Expertise in working with different databases like MySQL, MS SQL, Redis and PostgreSQL.  • Excellent working knowledge in Unix and Linux shell environments using command line utilities  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in Python's modules Numpy, matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks, Backup and Recovery.  • Expertise in Production support and Knowledge of deployment using Hudson and Jenkins.  • Good amount of experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: OS, Pickle, NumPy, SciPy) MySQL dB for database connectivity.  • Experience in Python's modules Numpy, matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Home Depot - Austin, TX January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Worked on rebranding the existing web pages to client as per the business requirements.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML and JSON format respectively.  • Setup NewRelic application monitoring tool for web applications on Prod and UAT environments to monitor the web traffic and servers and database uptime and utilization.  • Setup CI/CD pipeline with Jenkins along with pre and post deployment triggers and events.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL DB Package.  • Updated and manipulated content in JSON/XML files by using Python scripts.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of online users.  • Utilized Python and Django technologies in creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Worked with Flask to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed tools using Python, XML to automate some of the manual and mundane tasks.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Worked on development of SQL queries and stored procedures on MySQL Server.  • Used Maven to Validate, compile and deploy the files.  • Responsible for fixing the bugs and hotfixes reported on JIRA.  • Analyzed performance test requirements and developed test plans and have done debugging to understand test objective requirements.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL Server, Linux, JIRA. Python Developer Health Benefit Exchange - Washington, DC September 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of DC Health Insurance application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with RabbitMQ, MySQL, Django, to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and Soap UI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  • Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Created server-monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics, which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, Dev Centre, Data stax Opscenter.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, Node.JS and Oracle dB while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO).  • Worked extensively with Java script and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python mat plot lib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Cassandra, Rabbit MQ, Soap UI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, HTML5, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, SQL server, JavaScript, Eclipse, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting, Visual basic. Python Developer Top Image Systems - Plano, TX November 2014 to July 2015 Global innovator of intelligent document processing solutions that help organizations increase efficiency and realize business agility. TIS solutions capture and organize all business content that enters the organization, making it understandable and actionable.    Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintained the website.  • Worked closely with UX designers. Converted Photoshop images into dynamic HTML web pages with complex Flash integration.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using PHP/ Python.  • Maintenances PHP/MySQL (primarily Joomla), Classic ASP/MSSQL. Communicating and interfacing with previous developers on a regular basis.  • Started developing with Django 0.96 and currently developing with Django 1.0  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL and Postgres SQL with complete data integrity.  • Rewrite existing Python/C++/ Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.7, PHP, C++, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django, jQuery, Json. Software Developer Knoah IT solutions Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2011 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created entire application using Python, Django, Oracle.  • Developed applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Involved in development of Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format. Worked with Linux like OS on regular basis.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working with new code.  • Construct SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the GIT version control tool.  • Maintaining customer database using MS EXCEL.  • Proactively worked with managers and development engineers to meet project goals within expected timelines.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents    Environments: Python, SQL, Oracle, Linux, Agile, SVN, Eclipse. Education Master's in Information Technology Arkansas Tech University - Tech, Arkansas, US Bachelor's in Electrical & Electronics Engineering JNT University Skills DJANGO (6 years), LINUX (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), SQL (6 years), XML (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: Python, Java, C#  Frameworks: Django, Flask  Web Technologies: JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, XML, JSON, HTML, CSS, SCSS  Databases: MySQL, PostgreSQL, Redis, SQL Server  Testing Frameworks: Pytest, Unittest, Expects    Operating Systems: Linux (Ubuntu 12.04 - 16.04) and Windows and MacOS  Version Control Tools: GitHub, Bitbucket (Atlassian)  Application and Web Servers: Unicorn, Tomcat, Apache, HTTP Server  Development Tools: Jenkins, Hudson.  IDE Tools: PyCharm, Eclipse, PyStudio  Bug reporting: JIRA, Bugzilla, Collab Net