Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - ASCENA RETAIL GROUP (OHIO, Columbus) Columbus, OH • 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML5/CSS3, AngularJS, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery. Developing a large Python based back-end processing application.  • Comfortable with the Linux command line with strong environment.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, PERL.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite and MySQL databases.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • experience analysing very large, complex, multi-dimensional data sets and developing analytic solutions, experience in predictive analytics using Python.  • Working on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced with Python programming and Python libraries for data science included in the Anaconda distribution including NumPy, pandas. python packages like, SciPy, tables etc.  • Familiar with REST and AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EMR for improved efficiency of Storage and Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and NoSQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra, Oracle. Expertise in SQL stored queries.  • UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Provided support to Application and database team, troubleshoot issues encountered while providing support, contact AWS Support whenever necessary.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with the Linux command line environment. Proficient knowledge on basic coding principle.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python C, C++.  • Experience with Web Development, AWS, Python and the Django framework.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services and worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS) and have knowledge about object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.    • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer ASCENA RETAIL GROUP (OHIO, Columbus) - Columbus, OH June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed front-end and back-end of the application using python on Django web framework.  • Automating data movements using python scripts, involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  • Used several python libraries like NumPy, Logging, Pandas, Cluster.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services and worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment,  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views using Python, to assemble an intelligent online arrangement.  • Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA.    • Contributing to the refinement and ramp-up of the DDA technology and (Big) Data analytics stack.  • along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Designed and created information administration framework utilizing MySQL.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views using Python, to manufacture an intuitive electronic arrangement.  • Used Django framework to develop the application and used Python modules such as requests and urlib2 for web crawling.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed the ETL mappings in PL/SQL via packages, procedures, functions, views and triggers.  • Used Python based GUI segments for the front-end usefulness, for example, choice criteria, created test outfit to empower exhaustive testing using Python.  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, Cloud Formation.  • Stored the data in the form of JSON structure-based documents, stored in a collection using MongoDB. Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages for moving the data from staging area to data mart. Python Developer GUARDIAN LIFE INSURANCE, PA March 2015 to June 2017 Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX.  CLIENT: GUARDIAN LIFE INSURANCE, PA Mar 2015 to Jun 2017  ROLE: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Provide coordinate data for pipeline tie-in locations at facilities  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Working on DevOps platform and have gained experience in specialized areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used python library Beautiful Soup for Web scraping to extract data for building graphs  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on webpages using the data from MongoDB.  • For the large data management used TFS and delivered reliable end-product.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service etc  Environment:  Python 2.7, Django, Java Script, jQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Linux, Sub Version, Beautiful Soup, NumPy, AJAX. Python Developer/Django Citadel - Greenwich, CT December 2012 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed front-end and back-end of the application using python 3 on Django web framework.  • Automating data movements using python scripts, involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  • Used several python libraries like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas.  • Performed Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, WebStorm, IntelliJ and Visual Studio.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Called the RESTFUL webservices to get the JSON object (response) and manipulated the JSON object to display the response in the webpage.  • Involved in redesigning the process, Analysis, coding, testing and implementing.  • Extensively worked on developing UI components using Angular JS and JSON to interact Restful web services.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis, flexible reshaping and pivoting of data sets.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux. Created Several XML Schemas and Developed Stored PL/SQL Procedures and Packages to automatically create and drop table indexes.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing  • Worked in MySQL database on queries and writing stored procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Managed Ubuntu Linux and windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 using open-source chef server.  • Migrated the applications from internal data centre to AWS.  • Skilled in using collections in python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Delivering deliverables on time by working on agile and waterfall methodologies.  • Used Django for framework for accessing various consumer data from various sources.  Environment:  Python-2.7, MySQL, Python Scripts, Oracle, JavaScript, MongoDB, AWS EC2, Django, NumPy, GIT HUB. Software Developer GENFARE - Elk Grove Village, IL August 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Architect and implement scalable, high-performance Scala services on the AWS platform.  • Involved in development of Front-end Using Angular2.0, JavaScript, HTML5 and Back-end using Enterprise Java Beans.  • Wrote modular, secure, and well-tested front-end code in JS, HTML, and CSS using latest web application frameworks  • Analyse, develop, test, code, implement and maintain software and computer systems to meet  business and project requirements  • Responsible for creating the JavaScript code, for different modules.  • Extensive back-end API testing using POST-MAN.  • Documented software defects using bug tracking tool JIRA  • Automated front-end web pages using Selenium, Robot Framework.  • Used HP-ALM for writing and tracking test cases.  • Refactored a Templating application designed to construct data input sub-modules in HTML.  • Developed Front-End web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap4.  • Working on browsers compatibility issues.  • Supported for the defects on time-based priority in DEV/QA/ UAT and PROD environments.  • Writing service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS.  Environment:  Angular 2.0, Bootstrap3, SQL, PL-SQL, Robot Framework, Selenium, POST-MAN, JIRA, SOAP UI, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap4 Angular, GIT, SQL Server, Restful Web services. Education Bachelor's