Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Paychex Webster, NY ? Around 8 years of experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of web-based applications using the Python Django/Flask technologies.  ? Good knowledge on both Agile development process and SCRUM.  ? Experienced in UI Design and Development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX that follows W3C Web standards successfully managing all facets of application development.  ? Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  ? Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP.  ? Implemented different python libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, scipy, pytables, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, Pyvmomi, Fabric and urllib2 in various tasks.  ? Experience on client-side JavaScript frameworks AngularJS, and Angular 2.  ? Experience in developing server-side JavaScript using NodeJS, and Express JS.  ? Expert in optimizing the performance of SQL, DB2 and PL/SQL queries.  ? Expertise to interact with databases using ORM frameworks like Django, SQLAlchemy frameworks.  ? Had strong experience in developing applications with python frame works such as Django and Flask.  ? Good experience with Oracle 8i/9i/10g, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures.  ? Expert level skills on Python like Parallel processing.  ? Worked on various Message queues like Rabbit-MQ, and Kafka.  ? Experienced in building micro services using flask webservices.  ? Used Maven as a build tool and Jenkins for monitoring the build status of the project.  ? Had experience in developing RESTful Services with data representation in different formats such as JSON.  ? Had good knowledge on different databases like MySQL, Oracle 13c/11g, Microsoft SQL Server, NoSQL (Mongo DB).  ? Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer  ? Extensive experience in developing applications using Java API, Swing, HTML 4/5, Flex, JavaScript, CSS2/3, JQuery, JDBC, JSF, JMS, XML.  ? Experience on configuring Docker using Docker tool box. Environment provisioning solutions using Docker.  ? Experience in developing Python design patterns like MVC, Facade, Singleton.  ? Have good experience on different IDEs such as Pycharm, Eclipse.  ? Experience of using Jenkins and Bamboo tools for continuous integration and continuous deployment.  ? Experience on using Amazon web Services like EC2, S3, SQS, RDS and Lambda. Work Experience Python Developer Paychex - Webster, NY February 2017 to Present Description:  Paychex, Inc. is an American provider of payroll, Finance, human resource, and benefits outsourcing services for small- to medium-sized businesses.    Responsibilities:  ? Working on SCRUM Agile development methodology includes iterative and incremental application development, stand up meetings with clients.  ? Designed and developed efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap 4 and JSON.  ? Designed and integrated the full scale Hibernate / Spring.  ? Used Angular 2 to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application.  ? Used Flask Api MVC for REST APIs for micro-services.  ? Involved in development of commonly used angular components across teams such as directives for grid, pagination, conditional validations.  ? AJAX used extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  ? Created the Node JS - Express JS Server to build MVC framework from front-end side Angular 2 to back-end.  ? Configured Express.js to set up middle-wares to respond to HTTP requests and created RESTful web service with Node.js.  ? Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  ? Worked with mongoose connector for database persistence using Node.js to interact with MongoDB.  ? Worked with No SQL database MongoDB to perform asynchronous operations.  ? Implemented Drools Business Logic Integration Platform which provides a unified and integrated platform for Rules, Workflow and Event Processing.  ? Analyzed the Node.JS server structure in legacy project, then mimicked the REST Web Services by using Flask API and did the corresponding configurations.  ? Karma and Jasmine tool are used to perform unit testing on Angular 2.0.  ? Used Angular 2 to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application.  ? Worked with Requests, Numpy, Scipy, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  ? Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  ? Created the Node JS - Express JS Server to build MVC framework from front-end side Angular 2 to back-end.  ? Worked on ECMA 6 features. Used Babel to transform ES6 code JavaScript which is supported by all browsers.  ? OAUTH 2.0 authorization framework are configuring to provide the security to rest web services.  ? Created RFP micro services to provide RESTful Web Services.  ? Deployed Microservices using Docker container using Amazon EC2 container service and using AWS admin console.  ? Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM).  ? Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, optimized  ? volumes and EC2 instances.  ? Experienced in implementation of Celery to exchange information over reliable channel in an asynchronous way by using Rabbit MQ as a message queue.  ? Writing Python code to use web service API, developing Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures code.  ? Implemented the application using the architectural principles laid down by several design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Data Access Object, Singleton and Abstract Factory.  ? Developed Python objects using Object Oriented Features and implemented Multithreading concepts.  ? MySQL database used to store the data required for the application and created database schema, tables and load the data into the tables.  ? Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using PyUnit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using Selenium.  ? The application configured and deployed on Apache Tomcat server.  ? Jenkin CI/CD tool configured for continuous integrating and deploying application on servers.  ? To host the application on network created new accounts, roles and groups on IAM based on security policies.  ? Worked on writing complex queries and PL/SQL procedures, cursors on different databases.  ? Fixed the bugs while deploying applications in production environment.    Environment: Angular 2.0, Flask, JavaScript, React JS, Node JS, Express JS, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap4, jQuery, Microservices, Restful Web services, Pycharm, Jenkins, MySQL, AWS, Oauth 2.0, Docker, Gunicorn, Jenkins. Role Python Developer Nordstrom - Seattle, WA July 2015 to November 2016 Description  Nordstrom, Inc. is a leading fashion specialty retailer based in the U.S. This project deals with online customer shopping portal. This website taking care of wide range of products for the customers to buy online.    Responsibilities:  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  ? Used Celery with Rabbit MQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  ? Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and Soap UI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  ? Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  ? Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  ? Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, Dev Centre, Data stax Ops center.  ? Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  ? Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  ? Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  ? Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  ? Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, iter tools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  ? Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plotlib library.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  ? Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  ? Trained extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum stand ups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with clients.    Environment: Python, Django, Cassandra, RabbitMQ, Vugen, Soap UI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, Agile. Python Developer Voice gate India PVT LTD - ANDHRA PRADESH, IN July 2012 to March 2015 Description: Voice gate is Hyderabad based telecom company, it has a broad experience from diverse Industry segments driven with high passion and Innovation. Specialists in automation for Software design, Testing, Security Testing, Training and Processes. The system is designed according to Python specifications.  Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  ? Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers and tables.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Java Developer GSS Infotech, HYD July 2010 to June 2012 Description: GSS Infotech is a pioneer in applying innovative, technology-based solutions to common business problems. We Developed a knowledge management framework ensures conversion of complex maintenance issues to a standard operating procedure. Our tool assisted application maintenance ensures standardization, adherence to stringent incident and problem management SLA's.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? The application is designed using J2EE design patterns and technologies based on MVC architecture.  ? Agile methodology is used for development of the application.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like Value Object Pattern, Session Façade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  ? Created Stored Procedures & Functions. Used JDBC to process database calls for Db2 Server database.  ? Involved in writing PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Views for SQL database.  ? Developed back end interfaces using PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, functions, procedures, anonymous PL/SQL programs, Cursor management, Exception Handling in PL/SQL programs.  ? Implemented various features of Spring such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Annotations and Spring Integration with Struts.  ? Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages the classical Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture.  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs.  ? Writing Java code to use Apache Axis web service API, developing Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures code.  ? Used Eclipse for developing JSPs, Servlets, Struts and with IBM WEB SPHERE server in the development phase.  ? Used Spring Security framework to setup authentication and authorization for the application using firm wide single sign on.  ? Developed RESTful/SOAP Web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  ? Used SOAP for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  ? Involved in the development of underwriting process, which involves communications without side systems using IBM MQ & JMS.  ? Wrote Unit test cases using JUnit & Mockito framework.  ? Used ANT for automated build and deployment on IBM WebSphere.  ? Handled Java Multi-threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  ? EJB Session Beans were used to process request from user interface using OSS.  ? Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural pattern using STRUTS framework including JSP, Servlets, and EJB.  ? Used Spring Batch as spring batch jobs can meet the requirements of reliability, robustness and traceability which are essential for automatic processing of large amounts of data.  ? Developed UNIX Shell Scripts for batch jobs to transfer the data on different servers.  ? Used JTA to enable distributed transactions to be done across multiple resources in java environment.  ? ANT build tool for automated build and deployment.  ? Developed Message Driven Beans for receiving and processing data from IBM MQ using JMS.  ? Implemented the application using the architectural principles laid down by several design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service Locator, Data Access Object, Singleton and Abstract Factory.  ? Developed JAVA objects using Object Oriented Features and implemented Multithreading concepts.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Core java, collections, DB2, JDBC, PL/SQL, JPA, EJB, Struts, JSP, Servlets, Spring Batch, Shell Scripts, JTA, ANT, IBM MQ, JMS, J2EE, IBM WebSphere, Junit. Education Master's in computer and information systems California university of management and sciences 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology Maheshwara Engineering College 2010 Skills Python, Django, Java, Flask, Javascript