Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - T-Mobile Bellevue, WA • Having 6+ years of professional experience as a python developer with broad range of expertise in web based applications.  • Expertise in Backend Web Technologies using Python, Django, Flask, Java, spring, Hibernate, C++ and REST API.  • Applied HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JQUERY, JSON, and AJAX to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Experience in building all phases of the software development life cycle including requirement analysis, application design development, maintenance, implementation and testing.  • Excellent hands on experience in developing web based applications using Django and Flask which  involves MVC Architecture.  • Expertise in working with different databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL database MongoDB.  • In depth exposure to creating REST API for internal and external application using Django Rest Framework. In addition, Experience in securing APIs using JWT.  • Wrote and executed test cases based on written design, as well as based on product knowledge that resulted in greatly improving the software.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Worked on several standard python packages like Pandas, Numpy, matPlotLib, Scipy etc.  • Driven to architect Big Data solutions on multiple platforms using data analytics.  • Thorough understanding of providing specifications using Waterfall, Agile Software methodology to modeling systems and business processes.  • Hands on experience in developing business processes and system solutions utilizing prototype development, system development and deployment.  • Familiarity with developing for and deploying to cloud-based environments, specifically AWS.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Expertise in Object Modeling with Use Cases, Sequence, Activity and Class Diagrams using UML 1.4/2.0 with IBM Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Expertise using and deploying enterprise applications on Heroku, Tomcat.  • Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software GIT and SVN.  • Strong background, experience with open-source technologies, cloud platforms and all tiers of distributed-system development.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments.  • Have flexibility and ability to learn and use new technologies and also to work in team environment as wells as independently to get things done. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA January 2016 to Present T-Mobile is one of the major network providers in the US offering a wide variety of plans for wireless consumers. The scope of the project is to enhance and create web services to manipulate various data and give most relevant results to user when they search for particular query. In addition, I worked on one module of T-mobile Tuesday application in which I developed Web services by which user can redeem different rewards using application and user can use rewards within particular expire date.    Responsibility:  • Design and documentation of REST APIs using Django Rest framework for collection and retrieval of high volume data which is results of search query.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and implementation and support.  • Wrote multi-thread scripts to obtain optimal performance.  • Created tables, stored procedures, triggers and views for data access and manipulation.  • Implemented multiple high performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with roboust reliability.  • Developed systems and applications using complex algorithms to deliver business functions or architectural components.  • Write scripts using python modules and its libraries to develop programs that improve processing of access requests  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application  • Test RestAPI response using Postman and customize the generic response as per requirement.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Implement ranking algorithms to rank the documents in search results.  • Developed the project in Linux environment and involved in support for teams for projects across • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like angularJs.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Created Git repository and added to GitHub project.    Environment:  • Python, Django, Mongodb, AngularJS, REST APIs, GIT, AWS, PyUnit, JIRA, Agile, Pandas, Linux, Postman, pycharm Python Developer Dish Digital, Utah September 2014 to December 2015 Digital Dish has been providing the best TV and internet deals and services since last 20 years to commercial  And residential customers.  Involved in developing web application by which admin is allowed to do some analysis on company's sales  Activity and customers.Application include visualization of results and report generation.Develop and Documented RestAPI for this application.    Responsibility:  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Excellent Coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Using django_evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for automated test design, frontend and backend feature implementation, and any other improvements to the test automation framework.  • Responsible for security standard implementation.  • Involved in development of python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and to track sales and perform sales analysis using Django, PostgreSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Used Python Matplotlib, Pandas, numpy library to Manipulate and visualize data point using interactive charts. Designed data visualization to present current impact and growth  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Utilized Active Record eager loading to improve rendering time of index pages, incorporated up/down voting, reviewing, and several custom sorting methods for shows to provide smooth user experience  • Wrote a program to use REST API calls to interface with Veeam backup server, and parse output reports of an excel file in python to monitor user backup usages.    Environment:  • Python, Django, Pandas, PostgreSQL, RestAPI, Matplotlib, numpy, SVN, Json, HTML, CSS,Bootstrap Python Developer Ebay - San Jose, CA March 2013 to August 2014 Ebay is on of the leading E-commerce website where we can buy and sell various products at one place. To  Help customer with their sales we designed Campaign Management feature in their inventory management system. Clients can manage promotions on different products with various filters and increase their sales.  We provide interactive Dashboard for keep track of all promotions and products.    Responsibilty:  • Made a complete web application using Flask framework of Python.  • Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development, and implementation and testing.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Upload and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Involved in Python Objected Oriented Design code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Wrote databases queries in Oracle.  • Proven ability to implement Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment processes.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PyUnit.  • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Flask, and Bootstrap.  • In order to avoid the reloading of the entire web page to update small portions, AJAX in UI was used.  • For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems RESTful Web-Services were implemented.    • Developed views and templates with Python and Flask's view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  • Deployed applications on Web logic Application Server and performed required configuration changes.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau.    Environment:  • Python, Java, Flask, Oracle, HTML, css, Javascript, AngularJS, Jquery, Json, Ajax, Web Logic, Software Developer Cybage Software - Gandhinagar, Gujarat January 2011 to February 2013 India    Cybage Software is an information technology company in india. The company provides Software application development and maintenance in various business sectors.  Worked on Various Web based application and System softwares.    Responsibilty:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed complex software system communicates with Stethoscope and gives various datapoints.  • Developed dynamic dashboard shows live configuration of electric water or gas meters like voltage, current and other datapoints using Java, Spring, Hibernate.  • Designed and developed Multi Threading for different components in the application.  • Involved in designing and developing the front end of the application using Javascript, AJAX, Jquery,HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Attended everyday Enterprise Workflow Stand-Up meeting to provide current status, thus implementing Agile (Scrum) Methodology with Test Driven Development.  • Created unit test cases through use of testing tools of python UnitTest. Coordinated with QA team staff for identification, debugging and fixing of issues.  • Used Git as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that have to communicate with a server.  • Integrated usage of CRUD operations, performed Inner/Outer joins, used store procedures, stored functions and cursors using MySQL.  • Collaborated with other developers to handle complicated issues related with deployment of Web based applications.    Environment:  • Java, C++, Python, Spring, Mysql, HTML, Javascript, Ajax, HQL, Git, Web services Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Gujarat Technological University - Gujarat, IN Skills AJAX (3 years), Bootstrap (5 years), CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years), Python (6 years) Additional Information HIGHLIGHTS OF SKILLS  Programming Languages: Python, Java, JavaScript, C++ and Scala.  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, JSP, Servlet, Json, AngularJS, and REST.  Frameworks: Django, Flask, Springboot, Hibernate, Jersey.  Tools: PyCharm, Atom, Maven, Gradle, Junit, GIT, Docker, Jhipster, Eclipse, IntelliJ.  Database: My SQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Unix and Mac OS.  Python Libraries: Numpy, Pandas, Scipy, Matplotlib, pickle, Beautiful Soup, unittest, Pytables