Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Bank of America TX • Over 7+ years of IT experience in Development of applications using Python, Django, JAVA/J2EE, Flask.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java/F, Servlets, JSP, XML, Python, Django, PHP.  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications.  • Experience in implementation of Python web frameworks like Pylons, Web2py and Python Servlet Engine(PSE).  • Experience in working with python editors like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Wing IDE and Spyder.  • Have a good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum) and experience in using API's REST, CRUD, SOAP.  • Good experience in using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Good Experience in Error and Exceptional handling and Debugging.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux.  • Have exposure in different stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experience with Version Control, ideally SVN, CVS, GIT and Mercurial.  • Experience working with Puppet Enterprise and Puppet Open Source. Installed, configured, upgraded and managed Puppet master, agents & Databases.  • Involved in working with Connection Oriented and Connection Less Protocols (TCP, UDP, DHCP, SMTP, HTTP).  • Good Knowledge on Algorithms, Data Structures, OOPS concepts, Flowcharts.  • Good knowledge on Automation test scripting ( Python Selenium) and Socket programming using Python techniques.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Proficient in using Relational Databases like Oracle, SQL Server and My SQL.  • Experience in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, React.js and Node.js, Flask and Pyramid and Well versed in Django ORM and Extensive use of SSH, Flask/Django  • Experience in analyzing the network traffic by using Wireshark and monitoring the Data Store by using DMZ (Demilitarized Zone). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Bank of America January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Created UI using Java script and HTML5/CSS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle.  • Actively participated in System Testing, production support and maintenance/patch  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Build high-performance streaming REST server in Flask  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, Shell scripting, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, Django, PyQuery , T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, , Bootstrap, PHP/MySQL , CSS, RESTful, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scriptingo, RESTful, MVC3. Software Developer JP Morgan Chase - Columbus, OH July 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Interaction with client to understand expectations and requirements.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Hand full experience on LINUX operating system.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub and deployment using Heroku.  • Used extracted data for analysis and carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python library - numpy, scipy.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library  • Maintained technical documentation for resolved issues for future reference.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Held overall responsibility of coordination of implementations of software builds and releases.  • Provided analytics to help determine optimal way to assemble releases.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Heroku, numpy, scipy, HTML5/CSS, JavaScript, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3. Python Developer Southwest Airlines - Dallas, TX April 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Gathered requirements from stakeholders, worked on design documents.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Migrating the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Design a tool called netconf (Network configuration) which automatically configures network switches by parsing XML files.  • Access the development virtual machines using shell scripting in UNIX and deploy the source code.  • Involve in designing of API's for the networking and cloud services and Design and develop the application using Agile Methodology  • Involve in development of Web Services using SOAP and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Involve in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  • Migrate from Puppet to Ansible for configuration management. Integrated delivery (CI and CD process) Using Jenkins, Nexus, Yum and Chef.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.    Environment: Python 3.4.6/2.7, Java, Django 1.8,1.7, 1.5, HTML5, CSS3, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, CSS Bootstrap, Beautiful soup, Git, GitHub, Linux, VMWare API, UNIX/Linux, Bootstrap, SQL Server, SQL, SAS, Windows. Python Developer Ness Technologies, TS - IN January 2009 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Used JavaScript and UI for parsing XML and XSLT  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object-oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Support the scripts configuration, testing, execution, deployment and run monitoring and metering.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Used Restful API's to gather network traffic data from Servers.  • Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.    Environment: Python 2.4, Django, Java, JDBC, servlets, Restful/SOAP web services, JSon Script, XML, SQLite Skills DJANGO (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), LINUX (8 years), PYTHON (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Python 2.X/3.X, Java, JavaScript, C, C++, MATLAB  Frameworks Django 1.8/1.10, Flask, Pyramid, Spring/Hibernate  Web HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JQuery, Ajax, Node.js, Web Services  Databases MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MS-SQL 2008, Oracle  Libraries NumPy, SciPy, Unit Test, Beautiful Soup  Big Data Platforms Apache Spark, Apache Hadoop, Apache Hive, Pig  Tools & IDE  PyUnit, PyQuery, Pytest, Selenium, SoapUI, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Wing IDE PyCharm, Sublime, Eclipse, NetBeans, Spyder, Dreamweaver , VMWare, Wireshark, MVC, Puppet, Chef    SDLC Waterfall, RAD, Agile, Scrum  Design Patterns Repository Pattern, Singleton, Template Method, Facade, Abstract Factory  Operating Systems Windows, Mac, LINUX  Protocols UDP, TCP, SMTP, DHCP, ICMP, RIP, VLAN, IPV4 and IPV6.  Others Git, GitHub, PIP, RESTful/SOAP Web Services, Heroku, OpenCV, Django-Debug-Toolbar, UML, Shell Scripting, UNIX, Ansible