Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer New Jersey • Around 4 years of experience as a Python Developer with a deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in the core of complex technologies. Solid experience in analysis, design, and development, testing, implementation and maintenance of various web applications using Python and Django  • Experience in application development using PYTHON, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, and PyDev.  • Hands on Experience with the implementation of Python libraries NumPy, SciPy, PyTables, SQL Alchemy, Matplotlib, Pandas, Beautiful Soup and urllib in various tasks.  • Strong knowledge of Object-Oriented Design and Programming concepts and Experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.  • Experience in Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Glacier, SQS, SNS, Cloud Formation, VPC, IAM, Route 53, EBS, DynamoDB, Lambada, Redshift  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark and No-SQL databases like HBase and MongoDB.  • Experience with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes.  • Hands on experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Experience in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO.  • Developed CI/CD system with Jenkins on Google's Kubernetes container environment, utilizing Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build and test and deploy.  • Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  •Have knowledge of statistical programming language (SAS, SPSS, Stata ,R)  • Basic knowledge on Rest API and JSON Parsing, jQuery and Angular JS  • Experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Shell scripting.  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Experience on Hadoop (HDFS), Hive QL, Impala, Apache Drill, Apache Spark, SQOOP, FLUME/Kafka.  • Experience with Version Control with SVN, CVS, and GIT.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB. Designed and Developed automation scripts using Selenium Web Driver.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in developing big data applications using Hadoop framework and its eco systems like MapReduce.  •Worked in environment of Python 3.4, 2.7, Django1.7, Java 1.7, SQL, Java Script, Linux, Shell Scripting, Mongo DB HTML, Angular JS, Eclipse jQuery, Kubernets, Ansible, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Amazon s3, AWS. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python developer Vonage - Edison, NJ May 2017 to March 2019 •Experienced as web/application developer software development and design using python, Django, Java, Webapp2, Angular.js, HTML/CSS, JavaScript and jQuery  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5)  • Created a python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  • Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Working experience in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Created Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom Fortigate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once)  • Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  • Experience in Kubernets which provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Experienced in List Comprehensions and Python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  • Experienced in using CI tools Hudson, Build Forge, and Jenkins for automated builds. Python developer T Mobile - Bothell, WA March 2015 to December 2016 • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day-to-day tasks.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, AWS Glue Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Tested and debugged the product in controlled and real situations.  • Deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins. Python Developer Infosys January 2014 to November 2014 C, C++, Linux Developer Wipro June 2013 to December 2013 Project: Flexi Transport Module for Base Transceiver Station ( Telecommunication and Networking Domain )    •Done Requirement gathering, Analysis, Coding, deploying and testing of C, C++ application  • Enhanced and maintained the code coverage using Pure Coverage monitoring tool  • Detected memory leaks, Run time errors using purify tools.  • Analyzed and fixed performance issues, critical bugs and application crashes.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, and Functional testing along with debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Performed positive and Negative testing by inputting valid and invalid data.  • Developed and execute test plans, test cases, bug reports and scenarios for functional and regression testing.  • Involved in entire SDLC process.  • Worked on Client-Server programming using TCP and UDP Sockets.  • Developed C code for instantiating multi-threaded application and running with other applications.  • Deployed the project using SVN version control system.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting issues.  • Performed extensive unit testing (end-to-end) and prepared detailed test scripts as part of it.  •Technology/Tools Used: C, C++ Programming, Unix, Linux programming, Shell scripting, SVN, ClearCase, Wireshark, UMTS, WCDMA, LTE Education MS Northwestern Polytechnic University December 2016 BE in E&TC Pune University May 2013 Skills MySQL, PHP, Javascript, Python 3.4, 2.7, Django1.7, Java 1.7, SQL, Java Script, Linux, Shell Scripting, Mongo DB HTML, Angular JS, Eclipse jQuery, Kubernets, Ansible, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Amazon s3, AWS. (4 years), SVN, CVS, and GIT., Hadoop (HDFS), Hive QL, Impala, Apache Drill, Apache Spark, SQOOP, FLUME/Kafka., Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PostgreSQL, Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Glacier, SQS, SNS, Cloud Formation, VPC, IAM, Route 53, EBS, DynamoDB, Lambada, Redshift, Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, and PyDev., NumPy, SciPy, PyTables, SQL Alchemy, Matplotlib, Pandas, Beautiful Soup and urllib in various tasks., PYTHON, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite. (4 years), statistical programming language (SAS, SPSS, Stata ,R) (4 years), - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5) (4 years), Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT. (4 years), Map, Filter and Lambda. (4 years), Bash, Perl, Python (4 years)