Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Tampa, FL • Experienced Senior Python Developer with more than 7 years of hands on approach in development and testing using different technologies like Python, RESTApi, AWS, C, C++, and SQL.  • Expert knowledge in many python packages including Numpy, matPlotLib, Pandas, scikit-learn, PySide, Django, Flask etc.  • Very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python.  • Strong Experience in working with Python Latest version 3.x  • Responsible for ORM transitioning from PostgreSQL to MongoDB using Mongo Engine library.  • Complex systems with batch and real-time workloads, monitoring and instrumenting production systems.  • Develop Extract-Transform-Load (ETL) packages using SSIS to insert datasets to SQL server and generate project reports using SSRS and SQL.  • Strong Experience with Windows GUI Automation such as Pywinauto.  • Hands on Experience in building scalable data and advance analytics solutions on AWS.  • SQL Reference Mapper, using Regular Expressions Successfully mapped over a hundred thousand SQL references inside of SQL Object source code, VB code, SSRS reports, and DTS packages.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDE Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans, Geany.  • Experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Strong Experience in working with code version tools such as CVS, GIT, SVN.  • Expertise in working with different databases like Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, Cassandra, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB.  • Worked with PHP, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant networking website.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Application Stress tester, created and stress tested stand-alone, web-applications and generated graph reports.  • Experience working in both water fall and Agile software methodologies.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing(UAT).  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Tampa, FL January 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Create Python application to process very large Amazon AWS billing datasets in memory using Pandas, Numpy, Generators, Lambdas, etc.  • Creation of RESTful API in conjunction with AngularJS frontend for unified administration of server operations in object-oriented Python using Flask and Flask-Restful  • Worked with a team of developers to create a domain-knowledge representation system that inspects large amounts (> 10 TB) of web and proprietary data and aggregates information with intelligent meta-tagging.  • Developed statistical natural language processing techniques and user feedback metrics to discover semantic and cross-domain relationships within data.  • SQL Naming Conventions Enforcement, Using Python; Stored Procedures created a server job that enforces naming conventions for all SQL objects.  • Worked with Lucene, EC2, Apache, Python, Scala, Perl, AWS and T-SQL to keep data current and keep knowledge representation models relevant to user experience.  • Worked to improve scalability of data aggregation by automating smart scheduling of aggregation tasks and clustering techniques across EC2 instances.  • Developed robust and scalable Information Retrieval techniques to improve accuracy of meta-tagging and generate a controlled vocabulary for knowledge representation.  • Built Analytics KPI engine using Python and PIG, running on 5 TB of data  • Developed custom built query script to store, index and read large sets of Object data.  • Senior developer for a highly scalable and reliable service-tier application which integrates with core e-commerce platform for digital media across entire fulfillment cycle.  • Developed web platform to be scalable, secure, rich-featured site and CMS. Platform also incorporated ad serving and predictive / reactive scaling. Python Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC October 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Convert Microsoft SSIS budget application to object-oriented python application using SQLAlchemy (Database ORM), MySQL, Pandas which interfaces with PHP front-end.  • Creation of web solutions for very large datasets using Python (Flask), SQLAlchemy  • Data mining large (100,000-50,000,000 records) Amazon Redshift and MySQL databases  • Creation of RESTful APIs, JSON for data management and analysis  • Unify large datasets across multiple departments (creation of unification algorithms), API and web front-end.  • Development of responsive interfaces for master data project using JQuery and Twitter Bootstrap  • Use Amazon Redshift, Python and Matplotlib to do data mining on census information.  • Backend Python (Flask) development in the area of massive data de-duplication  • Javascript applications to interface with Oracle CRM on Demand Python Developer Ericsson - Piscataway, NJ November 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Prototyped Web - based data reporting in VB .NET. Rapid Prototyping with Python for Document Classification.  • Provided advanced software research and development for high performance, low-latency platform.  • Created time sensitive scripts to parse to large sets of serialized, unstructured data objects (30 Million +), filtering and reducing data into functional reports.  • Developed algorithms to quantitatively analyze financial data quality.  • Built a metadata API that incorporated product information from a feed of digital and physical assets.  • Performed cryptanalysis to create strategy for generating unforgeable codes.  • Constructed API so that multiple sites can access platform for sales and marketing for analytics.  • Design of programming of frontend responsive web interfaces  • Design and build interfaces to display data in intuitive ways Software Developer Samhitha Technologies May 2010 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Document classification software evaluation with Concept Classifier.  • Developed several custom scripts to aid in document classification.  • Developed methodology for file classification using various software tools and scripts.  • Backend development of using Python / Django of product implementation  • Frontend development of product mockups using JavaScript and JQuery and responsive web techniques  • Design mockups using Adobe products  • Use Python to convert Xilinx FPGA board farm management (Bash) scripts to more manageable application with web frontend.  • Compile Linux kernels for embedded systems  • Help automate design, test and build processes  • Develop scripts for regression tests Skills Bootstrap (2 years), Database (2 years), Javascript (3 years), JQuery (3 years), Python (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python, C, C++, JavaScript and Core Java.    Operating Systems Windows 10/XP/2000/Vista/7, RedHatlinux, Windows server 2008, 2012, IBM AIX, Ubuntu.  Python Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Numpy, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables, Pandas, DataFrames    Development tools Sublime Text, Eclipse, emacs, gvim, Notepad++, OpenGrok, Jenkins, Coverity, pylint, pdb, gdb, Tableau  Databases Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, MS Access, PostgreSQL and NoSQL database MongoDB  Version Controls cvs, svn, Git, GitHub    Methodologies Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall.