Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - PNC Bank Pittsburgh, PA • Professional 6 + years of experience as Sr. Python Developer with specilization in analytical programming using Python 3.4.6/2.7, Django 1.9/1.8, Flask and C++, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery & Angular Js.  • Strong experience in various Python libraries (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries) to speed up the development.  • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework and Extensive experiene in Open-source ESB, REST, APIs and cloud integrations in Python.  • Expereince with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript,Bootstrap.  • Expertise in JSON, IBM FileNet P8,Even Stream Processing(ESP) ,Scala, Linux, GoLang, Adobe Flex, AngularJS, Python, JIRA, AWS (Amazon Web Services) and proficient in cloud application development tools and deployment methods.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST and Experience in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Expertise in developing the queries in Hive with Experience in Version Control, ideally SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database and Experinece in Implementaion of machine learning algorithms in Spark and Python for segmentation of data.  • Extensive experience in writing UNIX shell scripts and automation of the ETL processes using UNIX shell scripting.  • Object oriented programming (OOP) programming experience using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Excellent understanding and knowledge of Hadoop Distributed file system data modelling, architecture and design principles and Developed Python Mapper and Reducer scripts and implemented them using Hadoop streaming.  • Experience in developing service oriented architecture (SOA) and web Services using SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL and UDDI.  • Good understanding of Geospatial fundamentals and geoprocessing workflows.  • Expertise in creating Restful API in NodeJS and communicate with Clojure server via protocol and use Backbone to generate template.  • Extensive use of SAS, SQL, Teradata by handling complex joins and conditions.  • Experienece in designing multiple Python packages that were used within a large ETL process used to load 2TB of data from an existing Oracle database into a new PostgreSQL cluster.  • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront.  • Experience in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, Jquery, React.js and Node.js, Flask and Pyramid and Well versed in Django ORM and SqlAlchamy and Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark and Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Openstack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront and Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins.  • Built an Data integration mart for enterprise-wide ETL to Apptio data staging and integration and Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database9i, 10g, 11g. Architecture and worked on Javascript implementation of tetris game, using ES6 and HTML5 Canvas.  • Experience with data analysis using Python, data wrangling and extracting data using Pandas, NumPy and SciPy.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  • Experience in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers and Expertise in R Language among statisticians and data miners for developing statistical software and data analysis.  • Experience in Setup hosting on AWS EC2 instance and used Amazon SES for email delivery.  • Hands-on experience on SCM tools like GIT, containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins, CHEF.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, Oracle and No-SQL databases- MongoDB, Cassandra as well as have hands on experience on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Strong Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies and Familiar with concepts and devices such routers, switches and TCP/IP protocols and OSI layer. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA April 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implementing Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • My responsibilities include developing and designing front end with ReactJs and also debugging backend code in Golang.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment and Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in jQuery and also provided dynamic functionality using AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Designing and implementing remote upgrade system mostly in Clojure and Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Developing Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  • Developing a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Develop single page application by using Angular JS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS.  • Built Single Page Applications (SPA), Responsive Web Design (RWD) UI, Rich Restful Service Applications, and HTML Wireframes using HTML5 Grid Structures/Layouts, CSS3 Media Queries, Ajax, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Using IBM DB2 SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  • Using Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Automating the creation of Excel pivot tables from SAS data sets using SAS/Macro and VBA  • Develop remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Write Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs, and created User Model for application.  • Migrating the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity and Designed, developed and deployed CSV Parsing using the big data approach on AWS EC2.  • Using Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access and Working on Development & testing of many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS3, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Design a tool called netconf (Network configuration) which automatically configures network switches by parsing XML files.  • Designing, implementing, and maintaining solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  • Working on ClojureScript with the help of Google Closure Compiler, which uses to generate JavaScript and provide us a cljc where we can write code that targets both Clojure and ClojureScript in one project.  • Configuring various big data workflows to run on top of Hadoop and these workflows comprise of heterogeneous jobs like MapReduce and Involve in evaluating existing server and virtualization environments for needed and useful upgrade opportunities.  • Working on project scaffolding using yomen, grunt, bower, nodejs and Develop dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML5 and CSS3.  • Extracting data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS data sets.  • Developing ETL (Extraction, Transformation and Loading) procedures and Data Conversion Scripts using Pre-Stage, Stage, Pre-Target and Target tables.  • Using Pandas library for statistics Analysis and Using Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium and Managing large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.    • Working on Certain schedule process such as notifications and certain data validations PERL scripts with GoLang programs for better performance and handling of requests.  • Administer and monitor multi Data center Cassandra cluster based on the understanding of the Cassandra Architecture.  • Access the development virtual machines using shell scripting in UNIX and deploy the source code.  • Develop Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application and Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS).  • Involve in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design and Using the advanced python packages like numpy, Scipy for various sophisticated numerical and scientific calculations.  • Work on Angular 2 for front-end development and NodeJS for backend development.  • Installing and automation of application using configuration management tools Puppet and Chef and Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • Utilize continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Involve in designing of API's for the networking and cloud services and Design and develop the application using Agile Methodology and followed TDD and Scrum.  • Involve in preparation of SAS datasets, Tables, Listings, Reports, Output Delivery System (ODS) and Summaries according to requirements, Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP).  • Involve in development of Web Services using SOAP and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Using several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib and Automating the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • Implementing a continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub, whenever a new GitHub branches are created Jenkins automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  • Involve in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Develop Spark code and Spark-SQL/Streaming for faster testing and processing of data.  • Develop Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore and Develop and implement core API services using Python with spark.  • Worked in the DevOps team, delivered new agile environments & build/release/configuration and deployment automation/monitoring using Jenkins, ant, maven, artifactory, chef, custom scripting and Jira for ticketing.  • Using Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Modify existing ETL scripts to fix defects at the root cause as enhancement part of project.  • Designing, developing, coding and working in penetration testing in customized DOL-AWS GovCloud Node.js Security Monitoring of VPC Zones using AWS - Lambda to load customized Spark-Scala GraphX Application.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  • Develope the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used different python libraries like Pandas and Numpy for various analysis.  • Knowledge of Configuration Management tools (Puppet) in developing and Experience with Performance Analysis and Troubleshooting in developing.  • Implementing Backbone JS for creation of networking applications using JavaScript and Involve in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.    Environment: Python 3.4.6/2.7, Java, Django 1.8,1.7, 1.5, HTML5, CSS3, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet MS SQL Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Beautiful soup, OOP, TFS, nose, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, VMWare API, Spark, GOLANG, SciPy, Numpy, Chef, Puppet, Docker, MongoDB, UNIX/Linux, Bootstrap, SQL Server, SQL, SAS, Eclipse, Windows, Python Developer Capital One Bank - Glen Allen, VA November 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming and Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup, matplotlib, Scipy, NumPy and Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Managed MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives and Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development and Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed several front-end application modules using HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and Worked on MYSQL data lineage process to map source to target DB, table and column mappings using OO Python.  • Using jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring frame work using DJANGO.  • Designed, developed, tested, deployed and maintained the website by coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix.  • Was Responsible for writing OOP code in Python for server side scripting.  • Involved in testing process for every release and make the QA process robust through lesson learn.  • Involved in building the ETL architecture and Source to Target mapping to load data into Data warehouse.  • Worked on version control with the help of Github version control for GOLang source code.  • Involved in building Cassandra data store integrating data in real time from Oracle to Cassandra using Cassandra, Spark streaming.  • Developed and maintained puppet modules required for deploying different applications on EC2 instances.  • Worked on REPL (read-eval-print loop) which is a tool for experimenting with Clojure code.  • Implemented business logic, data exchange, XML processing and created graphics using Python and Django its familiar framework Django.  • Worked on Unix Socket is used in a client-server application framework and worked on Linux server virtualization by creating Linux VM's for server consolidations.  • Developed and unit tested a redesigned system which served user data to internal analytics teams using Golang.  • Worked on multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Managing datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Used Pandas, Numpy for statistical Analysis and Numerical analysis of Insurance premium.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and Worked on configuring TCP/IP, network interface, assigning static routes and hostnames.  • Developed application which accessed the Cloud foundry API to monitor trends in development environments using other CF tools: Jenkins, Chef, Puppet.  • Utilized Agile software development methodologies including pair programming, continuous integration, and scrum events.  • Worked on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) and Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring frame work using DJANGO.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring MVC and SOAP web service and SOAPUI and Creating data pipelines using Apache Spark, a big-data processing and computing framework.  • Successfully migrated the database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Examined XML documents and loaded the data in database using Python scripts.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns and Worked on Node.js for developing server side web applications and Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Worked on Clojure Programming environment on-line, which compiled and executed all the available examples on line  • Designed and developed the User Interface of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript and Jquery.  • Modified data using SAS/BASE, SAS/ MACROS.  • Imported data from SQL Server and Excel to SAS datasets. Performed data manipulation by merging several datasets and extracted relevant information.  • Worked with shell scripts to build wrapper around ETL to do one time historic load.  • Developed the project in Linux environment and Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process and Wrote PL/SQL Packages, Stored procedures, Views and Functions at the Oracle database.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript and Strong Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Worked on XML documents based on XML Schema definition (XSD) with python scripts to load the data to database.  • Build back-end application with Python / Django, work with docker, RabbitMQ, Celery, Jenkins.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Worked on creating documents in Mongo database and Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.    Environment:- Python 2.7, Django 1.8, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, webbapp2, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Rest, Heroku, GIT, urllib, urllib2, OracleDB, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API, OOP, XML, Bootstrap Python Developer BB&T - Huntington Beach, CA December 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing web applications using Django Framework to implement the model view control architecture.  • Involved on the Exposure of Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Designed and coded Hibernate Plug-In for Spring ORM mapping and implemented HQLs by creating DAO, which connects to Oracle DB, to persist and retrieve data.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Analyzed larger datasets using Pandas and visualized data using matplotlib python library.  • Integrated front-end elements using JSP, Html5, Bootstrap, jQuery.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework and Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux and Created data pipelines using Apache Spark, a big-data processing and computing framework.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX and Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Developed and performed unit testing using JUnit framework in a Test Driven environment (TDD).  • Developed ETL (Extract Transform Load) software for DB2 columnar database fact and dimension tables.  • Developed web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Created PDF reports using Golang and XML documents to send it to all customers at the end of month.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Involved in Using AWS Cloud Watch performed Monitoring, customized metrics and file logging.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL and Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser and Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Used python packages like Pandas and numpy for different statistical and numerical analysis.  • Involved in Penetration testing with business to ensure security of the application.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community and Develop a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.    Environment:- Python 2.4, Django, CSS, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT. Software Developer Amdocs Inc - St. Louis, MO November 2010 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  • Gathered requirements from business analyst, analyzed and converted the requirement into technical design and Gathered the data Developed Java components for the core business logic.  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Created UI using HTML CSS and Javascript and Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic.  • Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database and Designed and Developed DAOs, DTOs to interact with the Oracle Database.  • Developed view components with JSP2.0 and Developed various layers of the application like presentation layer, delegation layer, and business layer.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented DAOs with JDBC and Developed EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment.  • Worked in the performance tuning of programs, ETL procedures and processes.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle along Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Checked erroe & tested the ETL procedures & programs using Informatica session log.  • Developed Servlets to process the requests, transfer the control according to the request to Corresponding Session Beans, JSP pages.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Eclipse, Struts, EJB, Web Logic Server, DB2, XML, Oracle8i, HTML, JavaScript, Ant, PL/SQL, JSF, C, C++, HTML, CSS, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, JDBC, PVCS, Oracle, Linux and Windows.h Skills AJAX (6 years), CSS (6 years), DATABASE (6 years), HTML (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:-    • Programming Languages: Python 3.6/3.4.6, Django 1.8/1.7, Flask, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL, Java/J2EE, PyJamas, Jython, IronPython, Cpython BIG DATA , Hadoop, PL/SQL, GoLang  • Python Framework: Django 1.8/1.7, Celery, MongoDB, AngularJS, Django Rest Framework, Flask, Hibernate, Spring MVC, ASP.NET MVC, Git.  • Web Technologies: AJAX, Node.js, ,JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, React, JSON, Jquery, Angular Js,CSS, Bootstrap, WebServices, REST API's.  • Database: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11g, NoSQL, PostgreSQL.  • Operating systems: Windows XP, Win 7, 8.1, 10, Linux, OS X.  • Methodologie: Agile, V Model, Waterfall, Hybrid.  • Code Versioning: Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  • JavaScript Frameworks: Node.js, jQuery, Backbone.js, ExtJS, Ember.js, AngularJS.  • Platforms: Linux, Unix, Windows.  • Tools & IDE: Selenium, Eclipse, NetBeans, Visual Studio, Netezza.  • Web Servers: IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat.  • Python Libraries: Pandas, NumPy, Shell, Unit Test, JSON, CSV, XLS, Perl, Bash  • Linux Versions: Hypervisors: Ubuntu, Red Hat, VM Ware, KVM, Hyper-V, Centos.  • Key Areas: PIP, Ansible, Puppet, Chef.