Python Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Full Stack Developer - Macy's Cincinnati, OH Over 7+ years of professional Software Development work Experience with efficient application development and designing knowledge of Python and Django ability in development of web-based applications using Python., proficient coder and experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, Flask, Pyramid and client-server technologies-based applications, RESTful services, AWS, SQL, SQLite etc.  • Experienced in working with various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experience in working with web services (SOAP & REST) with SOAP/XML and JSON format messages. Experience in building web services through SOAP and REST API.  • Experience in MVC (Model View Controller) architecture using Hibernate, Spring and Struts framework and various J2EE design patterns and UML methodologies.  • Experienced in installation, usage and management on AWS (Amazon Web Services), Jenkins and GIT for application.  • Experience in working with Relational DB (RDBMD) like SQLite 3, MYSQL Workbench, PostgreSQL and No-SQL database MongoDB for database connectivity.  • Experience in using Beautiful Soup python package for parsing HTML and XML documents.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python). Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Full Stack Developer Macy's - Cincinnati, OH November 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Built application logic using Python 3.4. Used Django APIs for database access. Used the Model View Controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Developed AWS Lambda python functions using S3 triggers to automate the workflows and developed Python scripts to upload and download objects to and from AWS S3 buckets.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring framework using Django and Integrated the pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked in React.js framework to develop the SPA and working with React Flux and Redux architecture.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it and Developed, Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server.  • Integrated Jenkins with various DevOps tools such as Ansible and used CI/CD system of Jenkins on Kubernetes container environment, utilizing Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build and test and deploy.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development and implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as Chef and Puppet also implemented and designed AWS virtual servers by Ansible roles to ensure deployment of web applications also designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Worked with CI/CD to deploy web application and run test build using Jenkins, Bamboo and Docker.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Developed scripts using pandas to easily perform read/write operations to CSV files, manipulate and compare data by columns.  • Created a Handler function in Python using AWS Lambda that can invoke when the service is executed.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Developed Restful API's using Python and SQLAlchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  • Worked on AWS services (S3, EC2) and deployment services (Lambda) and RDS, DynamoDB (NoSQL), Beanstalk, SQS and Jenkins CI/CD and worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database. Developed Scala programs with Spark for data in Hadoop ecosystem.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Written Python scripts in order to scrape the data from the websites using Beautiful Soup Module and did ETL operations on it to load into the postgres DBMS • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Used python Data structures like sqlite3, dictionaries, and tuples.  • Developed Restful Microservices using Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options also used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, Ansible and AWS Cloud Templates.  • Created Python scripts to totally automate AWS services which includes web servers, ELB, Cloud Front distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration, this script creates stacks, single servers, or joins web servers to stacks.  • Developed applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages and Used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs and built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Implementing REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Django with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which Open Stack would be deployed.  • Managed and reviewed Hadoop log file and worked in analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using PySpark.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery. Created a Python based GUI application • Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file. Python Developer Kroger - Blue Ash, OH July 2016 to October 2017 Responsibilities: • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used Query and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and used python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (Restful Web Service) using SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access and added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static or media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design and created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis and developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all the AWS services Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  • Automated Regular AWS tasks like snapshots creation using Python scripts.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters and responsible for configuring NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB to for increasing compatibility with Django.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  • Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit, Selenium and Rational Function Tester.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL and wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system and developed methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Worked on Angular JS to augment browser applications with MVC capability. Python Developer T-Mobile - Dallas, TX October 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities: • Developed Python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created interactive forms that saved data into database using Django Framework.  • Worked in Test driven development with Behave in Python and created Behave scripts using Gherkin syntax.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different your defined objects.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Implemented a login module for user, registration of the products, placing the order and tracking the order.  • Improving the performance while processing data by modifying functions, queries, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database and designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Worked on Unit testing, Integration testing and Web application testing.  • Code review using GitHub, testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyYAML libraries.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Developed views and templates with python 3.6.1 and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Software Developer SunTrust Bank - Atlanta, GA August 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities: • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Responsible for creating well-designed UI screens with Django templates using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Experience working with Issue tracking tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Created tables, complex join queries, stored procedures, views, Types, triggers and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL developer.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework and Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Project was based on agile (Iterations and standup meetings etc) thus used practices of test-driven development, SCRUM, continuous integration, refactoring and code standards.  • Wrote custom queries through database connectors and worked with excel sheets and csv files.  • Performed Test Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior Driven Development (BDD) for enterprise projects. Education Bachelor's Skills python, react, angular, javascript, redux, AWS, S3, EC2, Devops, (7 years), Angular, React, Node, Javascript