Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CVS Health Arizona City, AZ, AZ Creative and innovative IT professional working as a Python Developer having 7 years of experience with proficiency using cutting-edge technologies. Work Experience Python Developer CVS Health - Phoenix, AZ January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Successful migration of the default Django's database (SQLite) to PostgreSQL to improve efficiency, integrity and security of data.  • Involved in designing, developing and managing REST APIs utilizing Django's Rest framework and overlooking the API system.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  • Responsible for developing data pipeline using Hadoop ecosystem to extract the data from weblogs and store in HDFS.  • Experience working with complex datasets including Python's native lists, dictionaries and tuples.  • Wrote REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for customer feedback and complaints calculations, using Django's REST framework.  • Develop the existing application to enhance the features using the Django Framework and improve the performance using SOAP Webservices.  • Designed and developed templates using Django's template library and utilized them using Django's forms library.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed single page web application using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery for interactive cross-browser functionality.    • Used AngularJS framework for single page applications and validating the client-side user information based on their business rules.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python and was responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Experience working with version control systems such as Git and Apache SVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  • Followed Scrum along with Test-Driven Development to develop applications, services and software solutions.  • Developed, tested, and deployed proprietary data analytics and visualization Python Django application in an agile team, used packages like Pandas, NumPy and tool including Git.  • Responsible for constantly communicating the progress and issues to the higher management and making necessary changes to the application based on flexibility, scalability and security issues.  • Environment: Linux, Angular JS, Python 3.5, Django 1.5, JSON, Hadoop, Mongo DB, RISK management, SOAP, REST, GitHub. Python Developer Starbucks - Seattle, WA December 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • Designed Automation script in Python 2.7 using Android APIs and Motorola library to generate automatic report logs, crashes in the reporting server.  • Developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications. Unit testing with JavaScript and node.js.  • Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed and tested HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js that meets accessibility and web browser standards for car dealerships websites.  • Worked on Angular 2 for front-end development and NodeJS for backend development.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed JSPs, Servlets and custom tags for creating user interfaces and worked on Spring JMS, MDB for listeners, Message Broker for routing the messages.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using SVN version control system.  • Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the Node.js environment.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Wrote JSX code in updating the React DOM and also worked with states and props in initializing the child components using this set method.  • Designed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.    • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Developed a high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT), Perl, Python scripting.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript and designed the J2EE components of the RESTful Web Services and scheduled Java batch jobs based application in UML.  • Performed bootstrapping and modularizing of an application with Angular JS injector and gathered all requirements for developing and analysing requirement of projects.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using python scripts and integrated activate catalog to get parts using JMS.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlet under J2EE Environment and implemented security features for the APIs.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for presentation and data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Designed and Developed the parsers for parsing xmls and jsons using jackson, JAXB and developed the controller Servlet to handle the requests and responses.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL and performed dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP- serializable JSON strings.  • Developed asynchronous messaging systems using JMS, MDB, and MQ series.  • Managed virtual servers and accessed various features in Open stack infrastructure using Rest API calls, developed in Python.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations and developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Built AWS and REDIS server for storing the data and performed defect analysis and Interaction with Business Users during UAT/SIT.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  • Environment: Python 3.5, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer BNY Mellon - New York, NY May 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting and MySQL Workbench for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages  • Successfully migrated the Django database from MySQL Workbench to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.    • Designed and developed ETL processes that were used to integrate data between various sources using Informatica.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing Oracle SQL developer clusters.  • Created Automated Test Scripts in Python for Reports and Data extraction jobs.  • Developed scripts in python for Financial Data coming from SQL Developer based on the requirements specified.  • Refactored existing batch jobs and migrated existing legacy extracts from Informatica to Python based micro services and deployed in AWS with minimal downtime.  • Worked on Python Open stack API, used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  • Created MAVEN archetypes for generating fully functional REST web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation. Archetypes built on Spring technology.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Oracle database with Python.  • Worked with python Unit test library which was used for testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Checked error & tested the ETL procedures & programs using Informatica session log.  • Involved in the complete software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the web application.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Coding application using Python, Django in End-to- End Web application development using MVC architecture while front-end is built on CSS3 and HTML5.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PyUnit.  • Created Database Schema for MySQL Database and involved in designing ER-Diagrams using  Microsoft Visio.  • Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens and the user entry validations. Java Developer Synchrony Financial - Alpharetta, GA March 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities  • Design of application components using Java Collections and providing concurrent database access using multithreading.  • Implemented the logic layer using Java features like Collections, Interfaces, Polymorphism and Exception Handling.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection (DI) and integrated and used DAO design pattern to retrieve the data from database.  • Java Servlets and JSP pages were deployed on the Web Logic Application Server for retrieving user information and posting related data.  • Developing new endpoints to fetch data from different sources like SQL Server, Netezza / AWS and designing its output response in JSON.  • Re-engineered designed and migrated SCORE applications from Websphere to JBOSS application Server.  • Worked with Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean.    • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Designed and created PL/SQL sub programs like Stored Procedures, Triggers and Sequences to access Oracle.  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML, jQuery, Bootstrap, CSS and Eclipse.  • Handling form requests using Servlets and JSP responses for interacting with the formal Business Logic Layer that contained the Back-End business rules for handling the data in and out of the system.  • Generated UML artifacts such as use cases, sequence diagrams, class diagrams using Rational Application Developer.  • Created UNIX shell scripts to automate the build process, to perform regular jobs like file transfers between different hosts.  • Written SQL queries in PL/SQL wrote new stored procedures and modified existing ones depending on requirements in Oracle database.  • Developed iterations, including planning, requirements analysis, design, writing unit tests throughout the life-cycle of the project using Agile (Scrum) Methodology. Skills Django (5 years), front end (5 years), JavaScript (5 years), JQuery (7 years), Python (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL  • Languages: Python (2.7, 3.4), Perl, Java/J2EE, C, C++, Unix Shell Scripts, SQL.  • Frameworks: Flask, Django, Laravel, Spring, Hibernate, Apache Hadoop, Spark.  • Front-end Technologies: HTML, CSS, javascript, Jquery, BootStrap, jQuery, AJAX, Kendo UI, AngularJS, ReactJS, Node.JS, BackboneJS.  • Cloud Technologies: Amazon Web Services (AWS), OpenStack, MicroSoft Azure, Rackspace, SaaS, IaaS, PaaS  • Security: Spring Security, OAuth, Active Directory, LDAP, SSL, SAML.  • Databases: RDBMS (MySQL and Oracle), NoSQL (MongoDB and Cassandra), CouchDB, DynamoDB, Teradata and PostgreSQL.  • Version Control / Management Tools: GIT, JUnit, Log4j, JIRA, Jenkins.  • SDLC Methodologies: Agile/Scrum, Waterfall, Hybrid.  • Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, Jboss, WebLogic, Servlets.  • IDE Tools: Spider, PyCharm, Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, Sublime, VS Code, PyStudio, Matlab.  • Design Methodologies: OOP, Agile, Water Fall, SCRUM.  • Operating systems: Linux (Ubuntu, Fedora), UNIX, Windows (XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10)