Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Woonsocket, RI • Over 8 Years of experience in Analyzing, Developing, Managing and implementing various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, DJango, Java and mapping the requirements to the systems  • Experience in developing web applications by using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Well versed with Agile, SCRUM methodologies.  • Experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Django, Flask and Pyramid Python web application frameworks.  • Experience in implementing with server-side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node.js and Django framework.  • Experience in working with number of public and private cloud platforms like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure and RackSpace.  • Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Elastic Search, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon CloudFront).  • Proficient in SQLite, MySQL and Postgre SQL databases with Python.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev, IDLE, NetBeans and Sublime Text  • Pleasant experience in using WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architectures.  • Experience with Requests, Numpy, Scipy, Pytables, Beautiful Soup, DataFrame, Pysftp, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Hands-on experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis, CouchDB, DynamoDB by installing and configuring various packages in python.  • Experience in using Pytest, unittest, framework for testing small codes  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks- PyGUI, PyQt, PyWebkitGtk, PyJamas, Jython, Guidata.  • Experienced in developing Multi-threaded web services using CherryPy & BottlePy framework.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Expertise in Build Automation and Continuous Integration tools such as Apache ANT, Jenkins/Hudson, Anthill Pro, Bamboo, Cruise Control.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, Ansible and AWS Cloud Templates.  • Good Knowledge in writing various kinds of tests like Unit test/Pytest and build them.  • Strong experience in developing Web Services like SOAP, REST, Restful with Python programming language.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational database like Oracle, DB2, MySQL, Sybase, PostgreSQL and MS SQL server.  • Expert in UNIX and LINUX commands using command line utilities. Developed various Perl, Shell (bash, ksh) scripts to handle miscellaneous tasks.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP-8 Guidelines in Python.  • Experience in building applications in different operating systems like Linux (Ubuntu, CentOS, Debian), Mac OS.  • Strong working experience with the Testing tools such as Nose, Selenium (IDE, WebDriver, and RC), Cucumber, JUnit, QUnit, Karma, Jasmine, SoapUI etc.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Work Experience Python Developer CVS Health - Woonsocket, RI December 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Rewritten existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Using Chef, deployed and configured Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana (ELK) for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and CloudWatch.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Automated Nagios alerts and email notifications using Python Script and executed them through Chef.  • Developed Chef Cookbooks to install and configure Apache Tomcat, Jenkins and Rundeck and deployment automation.  • Kubernetes is being used to orchestrate the deployment, scaling and management of Docker Containers.  • Used Jenkins pipelines to drive all micro services builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes  • Experience with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka  • Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications.  • Deployed the project into Rackspace using GIT version control system.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing, and web application testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environments: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL, T-SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, Chef, Apache Tomcat, Docker, Kafka, Jenkins, Kubernetes.    Python Developer Principal Financial Group - Des Moines, IA October 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python.  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked with optimization of server resources, Amazon Elastic Cloud instances and website security, Web services /REST, Amazon AWS, Chef and Puppet.  • Developed Kafka consumers to consume data from Kafka topics  • Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance and monitoring  • Deployed the application on cloud using AWS.  • Used Chef for server provisioning and automating infrastructure.  • Development and version control of Chef Cookbooks, testing of Cookbooks using Food critic and Test Kitchen and running recipes on nodes managed by on premise Chef Server.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Created instances in AWS as well as worked on migration to AWS from data Center. Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  • Developed the front-end featuring web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and used JQuery framework for UI centric AJAX behaviour.  • Developed server side application and server side validations using Django framework.  • Performed validations for input fields making use of mainly Active Records.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Developed micro service on boarding tools leveraging Python and Jenkins allowing for easy creation and maintenance of build jobs and Kubernetes deploy and services.  • Implemented a production ready, load balanced, highly available, fault tolerant, auto scaling Kubernetes infrastructure and micro service container orchestration.  • Used Docker with functional Database data and running Dev server from scratch  • Used Docker commands to remove all unused images  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like Open stack.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.4, MySQL, Linux, Docker HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Perl, Apache Web Server, Kubernetes , Git , Linux, Chef, Kafka. Python Developer MetLife - Raleigh, NC September 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Involved in designing application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python.  • Knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF.  • Participated in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Managed code versioning with BitBucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Worked under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Used regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and store them in database on a chronological basis.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base.  • Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  • Was involved in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and de-normalization.  • Deployment of the web application using the Ubuntu server.    Environment: Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, RESTful, MS SQL Server, Ubuntu server, Windows 12 Server, Amazon S3, Jenkins, My SQL, Mongo DB, GitHub, Bit Bucket, Linux, and Windows. Python Developer MatterPort - Mountain View, CA August 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked with offshore teams and internal clients to Design and analyze the req of in-house applications.  • Thorough use of third-party packages, such as Fabric, Django based CMS - Mezzanine and Django-widgy  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Django.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Used SOAP and RESTful API for information extraction  • Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  • Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization/debug at the deployment site.  • Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two  main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Mezzanine, MySQL, JIRA, Amazon EC2, Amazon SQS, S3, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Software Developer SITEL India Pvt LTD - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2010 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Git for the version control.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django , MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Education Bachelor's at Koneru Lakshmaiah College of Engineering Skills CSS (7 years), HTML (7 years), jQuery (7 years), LINUX (7 years), MYSQL (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems Windows, MacOS, Linux CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu  Programming Languages Python, SQL, C, C++, JAVA  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, DOM, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, Angular JS, angular2, Angular4, Node, React JS  Python Libraries/Packages  Numpy, Scipy, openpyxl, Pickle, PyQT, PySide, PyTables, DataFrames, Pandas, Matplotlib, SQLAlchemy, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, PyQuery    Python Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, PyJamas, Jython, Web2py  Development IDE PyCharm, Anaconda, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev, IDLE, NetBeans, Sublime Text, Brackets, Webstorm  Cloud Computing AWS, Azure, RackSpace  Databases/Servers MySQL, SQLite3, Cassandra, Redis, PostgreSQL, CouchDB, MongoDB, Apache Web Server 2.0, Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic  Testing/Bug Tracking Tools Robot, Selenium, Junit, Nose, Karma, Bugzilla, Jasmine, Pynit, JIRA and Junit, zope, PyTest, TestNG  Build and CI tools Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, Hudson, Bamboo  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Scrum,  Version Control Git-Hub, Sub Version, CVS