Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Black Knight Financial Services Houston, TX • 7 years of experience in the field of software development. Proficient in developing applications using Python, R and C++.  • Experience in IT industry with proficiency in Analysis, Design & Development Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development using, Python, Django, Flask and SQL projects.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  • Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and C++.  • Experienced in using Python, Django, PHP, C++, CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, AJAX and JSON for developing web applications.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Experience Amazon SQS, and Amazon Web Services like EC2, Redshift and S3.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell scripting.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  • Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Work Experience Python Developer Black Knight Financial Services - Houston, TX May 2017 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Responsible for training ETL developers to utilize existing python framework.  • Developed RESTful web-services, for upstream and downstream web-applications using Django Rest framework.  • Developed Job dashboard monitor UI using Django/Flask.  • Developed Table Management System replacement, dine time written in Django Flask and deployed to production.  • Supported Table Management System web apps written in Django/Flask.  • Involved in working with large teams to support existing ETL framework written in python.  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Worked on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS for better appearance.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Worked with Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Implement security features for the APIs and Used AJAX to reduce page reloads.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, various Python libraries such as Scrapy, Pandas, Beautiful Soup to collect and extract data.  • Generated graphical reports using python package PYcharts.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django, jQuery and Angular.js while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.    Environment: Python 3.6.4, Django 2.0, MySQL 5.7.2, Linux 4.14, HTML5.2, GIT 2.16, CSS 3, Angular 5, JavaScript 1.8.5, Apache Web Server, AJAX 17.1, XML. Python Developer FedEx - Trenton, NJ March 2016 to April 2017 • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs (RESTful Web services) by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Designed test cases and test plans, and developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python.  • Developed an autonomous continuous integration system by using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed web components by using JSP, Servlet under J2EE Environment and implemented security features for the APIs.  • Worked with various python libraries such as Pandas and matPlotLib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Wrote Python scripts in order to parse and load the data into the database, from the XML and JSON files, and wrote programs for performance calculations by using NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  • Designed and developed asynchronous messaging systems using JMS, MDB, and MQ series.  • Used REST based microservices with REST template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed the UI for the client websites by using HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP- serializable JSON strings.  • Migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Dealt with large datasets by using Pandas data frames and MySQL, and performed dynamic implementation of SQL server work on the website using SQL developer tool.  • Deployed the project onto the Jenkins server, and organized the configurations and versions of the code using SVN version control system.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration. Responsible for setting up REST APIs using Django.  • Built an AWS and REDIS server for storing the data and performed defect analysis and interaction with Business Users during UAT/SIT.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python in order to extract and load data into MySQL database and used Test driven approach for developing applications.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  • Implemented the unit testing by using Python Unit test framework.    Environment: Python 3.6.1, Django 1.8, HTML5, CSS 3, XML, JavaScript 1.8.5, jQuery 3.1, Bootstrap 3, MongoDB 3.0, MS SQL Server 5.7.1, Eclipse 4.5, Git 2.13, GitHub 2.9, AWS, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Zolon Tech Ltd August 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design phase and the development phase. Utilized Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Participated in Daily Stand-up meetings and provided status on work progress.  • Wrote Backend python code to interact with Active directory using LDAP Module for the Authentication.  • Implemented code to create dynamic Excel reports for thousands of metadata using xlswriter.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in MongoDB.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented and executed code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using Pymongo module.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML5, CSS3, Java Script and Bootstrap.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • End to end testing of the applications.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications that were a main source of data for the customers.  • Build development environment with Rally.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Used Bitbucket for version control.    Environment: Python 3.5.0, Django 1.10, Xlswriter 1.0.1, MongoDB 2.4, Elastic search, Linux 4.1, HTML5, CSS 3, Bootstrap 3, JQuery 2.1, AJAX 15.1.2, Rally, Bitbucket 0.1. Web Developer Cognizant - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Developed Application using PHP, SQL and UNIX.  • Responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running quickly with online features.  • Engineered stable, isolated environments per game team.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi-threading functionality.  • Used Python, Php, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.    Environment: PHP 5.5, HTML 4.01, UML, Rational Rose, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL 10.0, ODBC 3.8, Pro*C, PVCS, Oracle 9i, Linux 4.0 and Windows NT. Education Master's Skills CSS (6 years), DJANGO (6 years), jQuery (6 years), LINUX (6 years), TESTING (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks: Django 2.0, Zope 4.0, PyJamas 0.8.1, Jython 2.7.1, CSS 3, Bootstrap 3  Web Technologies: HTML5.2, CSS 3, DOM 3, SAX 2.0.1, Java Script 1.8.5, JQuery 3.1, AJAX 17.1, XML, AngularJS 5.  Programming Languages: Python3.6.4, C11, PERL 5.12, SQL 14.0 and PL/SQL 10.0.  J2EE Technologies: JSP 2.3, Java Servlets (SERVLET 4.0), JNDI, JDBC 4.3 and JMS 2.0.  Version Control: SVN 1.8, CVS 1.11, Git 2.16, GitHub 2.9.  Analytic Tools: JMP PRO 13.0, SAS 9.4, Tableau 10.0, UCI NET, Node XL  Application servers: Apache Tomcat, JBoss  Databases: Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), My SQL 5.7.2, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB 3.4  IDE's/ Development Tools: NetBeans v8.2, Eclipse 4.7, PyCharm 3.3.2017, PyScripter 2.5, PyStudio 0.7 and Sublime Text.    Operating Systems: Windows, Red hat Linux 4.14, Ubuntu 17.10.  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP 1.2, SMTP  Deployment Tools: Heroku, Amazon EC2  Testing Tools: Bugzilla 4.4 and JIRA 7.0