Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Beacon Hill Technologies Pittsburgh, PA • 11+years of experience in developing web-based applications and design using Python,Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JAVA, AngularJS, jQuery and C++.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Good Experience in programming and object oriented programming using Python and C++.  • Experience in using Beautiful Soup python package for parsing HTML and XML documents.  • Worked on the front end applications experience using HTML and CSS.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python).  • Expertise in designing and developing Web applications using HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular.js, Backbone.js, TypeScript, ES6, Redux, React, Bootstrap.  • Experience working on scalable environment using Agile/SCRUM methodologies.  • Designed and developed application using Core Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets), spring and Oracle.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, S3 buckets, Virtual Private Clouds (VPC), Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Experience in creating JSON scripts for Cloud Formation based on requirements and launch stacks.  • Created AWS Security Groups for deploying and configuring AWS EC2 instances.  • Creating snapshots and Amazon machine images (AMIs) of the instances for backup and creating clone instances.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services.  • Strong knowledge of OOP (Object Oriented Programming) and applying OO principles in full Software Development Life Cycle  • Experience in cross browser and cross-device compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing using Jasmine, Mocha, JUnit and Karma.  • Expertise in Java, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Struts 2.0, Spring, Spring MVC Hibernate, RESTAPI, Enterprise java Beans, JDBC Hands on experience in DBMS like Oracle, Node.js, MySql, MS-Sql, Toad, Crud, Postrage Sql.  • Experienced in web/application servers like Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss and Weblogic  • Set up, configured, and maintained multiple web/application servers like IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat and BEA Weblogic. Experienced in Managing build files using ANT and logging using Log4j.  • Experienced in writing test-cases in Java environment using JUnit.  • Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows, Linux, UNIX, AIX and UNIX Shell Script.  • Sequence, class and database diagrams are made using the UML design tool and RAD.  • Experienced of Databases that involve writing SQL queries, Views, Triggers and Stored Procedures.  • Experience on RUP, Agile/Scrum and Extreme Programming (Test Driven development, Pair Programming, Code Reviews).  • Proficiency with the application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBOSS and Tomcat.  • Proficient in Object oriented design experience, with extensive experience of Python-C/C++ binding using Boost Python and Python C types.  • Experiences with File Handling and SSH (Secure Shell).  • Working knowledge of errors and exceptions handling debugging using PDB, Eclipse and Pycharm.  • Experience with Docker, deployment of application inside software containers.  • Excellent Debugging, Problem Solving, Optimization and Testing Skills using GitLab  • Experience in Python Development and Scientific Programing, and using Numpy and Pandas in Python for Data Manipulation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer Beacon Hill Technologies - Wayne, PA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed tools for monitoring and notification using Python.  • Enhanced the application by using HTML and Java script for design and development.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash and worked in tandem with the Flash developer to obtain the correct data through query string  • Wrote advanced HTML 5, JavaScript and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Involved in designing database Model, Views using python to build an interactive web based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Implemented Data tables to add, delete, update and display patient records and policy information using PyQt.  • Implemented a module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance using python.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  • Improved the Data Security and generated report efficiently by caching and reusing data.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Working on AT&T plugin components like Authentication and Authorization, Cookie based Authentication and login, developed logging mechanism to dashboard to keep all logs for application.  • Integration with CICD (Continuous integration and continuous Deployment) Process for all microservices and serve them to external innovations.  • Support Client side liberaries like angular and database connection like mysql, Casandra, mongoDB and postgres through the Node base microservice and have them connected with Api calls.  • We setup the development environment using Node.js, Npm, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, git.  • Essentially worked on Message Routing and Kafka Broker implementation in node.js.  • Utilized Python libraries NumPy and matplotlib.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development with MySQL database, Node.js as the backend.  • Developing custom HTML elements using angular. js 2.0 directives.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Worked with React JS to build bootstrap components for UI web objects. Linked with API data to view render virtual DOM dynamically.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and matplotlib.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front end development frameworks including Bootstrap, flexbox algorithm to make consistent page layout.  • Extensively used Selectors in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  • HTML5 and CSS3 latest tags are used to design the webpages and HTML local storage web applications are used to store data. Styling pages with CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Extensive experience of Object Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular JS and React JS.    Environment: Python, Django, Go language, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, JavaScript, DOJO, HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, AJAX, JSP, JSON, Jquery, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, React.js, ES6, TypeScript, Polymer.js, Docker, kubernates, Npm, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, Core Java, UNIX, Linux, Sybase, JDBC, Oracle, SQL, MySql, MsSql, Toad, CRUD, Eclipse, REST, Apache CXF, Clear Case, Tomcat, JUnit, JIRA, Maven, iText, Weblogic, SVN, UML, Agile. Senior Python Developer Infinity Consulting Solutions - Houston, TX March 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Use Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Develop Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  • Manage datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angularjs, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Involved in the Web/Application development using Python 3.5, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Develop and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Clean data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific format with Excel macros and python libraries such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy and matplotlib.  • Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript's.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance  • Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Worked on Node.js Middleware framework like Express.js and Hapi.js and Yoemon, essentially developed microservices and serve them through middleware. Served any Client side libraries through microservice.  • Worked on NPM packages and published them to nexus repositories, Developed Gulp, grunt task runner or application and involved in to write Unit test cases.  • Essentially working to develop restful Apis and invoke Soap Apis in Express.js and Hapijs, validating Apis with swagger.  • Made strategies for Authentication, Authorization and log formats for AT&T standard internal components with OAuth and passport.js using secure gateway.  • Make pluggable UI microservice for each platform which should solve the monolithic problem of seed generation and create Docker image and deploy them into kubernates using Angular.js 2.0.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template Language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.    Environment: Python, Django Framework, Azure APIs, Shell Scripting, Spark, ReactJS, Google APIs,SOAP, REST, Hadoop, RBAC,ACL, Pandas, NVMe,Docker,Postman, node.js, MySQL, Selenium ,Scala, Flash, AWS, Windows, unix Senior Python Developer TransTech LLC - Chicago, IL July 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Created User Interface Design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, REST and AngularJS, Bootstrap. Implemented useful and elegant features and visualizations.  • Closely worked with the customer scrum to build the internal web application which will be Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Created a custom, single-page Applications, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application, developed using client side MVC Design using AngularJS front end framework.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, AJAX, CSS3, CQ5 and AngularJS in ongoing projects.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using jQuery, AJAX.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using AngularJS.  • Worked on ReactJs Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Built the Responsive UI screen for create new customer process, create bill to and ship to screens, customer search results page, customer dashboard page using Bootstrap.  • Worked with Docker for containing microservices and write docker file, Jenkins for Automated Integration and deployment process and kubernates for deploying pods. And maintaining each pod on kubernates dashboard and load balancing.  • Working on single client platform supported by around 9 other services, an internal API to connect them, and an external API for partners. It allows us to keep codebases smaller, optimize more specifically, and explore new technologies with isolation.  • Scraping website using Python Beautiful Soup, and then parsed it with XML.  • Outputting the parsed data as JSON/BSON and stored into MongoDB  • Used NLTK and StanfordNLP to process text data and created offline intelligence.  • Querying data from MongoDB and use them as input for the machine learning models  • Using AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Wrote UNIX shell scripting for automation.    Environment: JAVA, JSP, Servlet, Spring, JavaScript, Hibernate, JQuery, Struts, Design Patterns, Agile, HTML, CSS, DOJO, XML, JMS, XML, Eclipse, Itext, Apache, Oracle ECM, Struts, Web service, SOAP, ILOG, Web2.0, Oracle BPM, JSF, WSDL, Apache Axis2, Apache Tomcat Server, SOA, PL/SQL, Oracle10g, UML, Weblogic, Rational Rose, Junit. Python Developer iStaff - Atlanta, GA April 2012 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Performed Java web application development using J2EE and Netbeans.  • Created Various UML Diagrams e.g. Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams.  • Developed user interface using JSP JQuery, and AJAX to speed the application.  • Writing the java script and designing the JSP GUI frame work.  • Involved in developing EJB's for the business logic and deploying them in Apache tomcat.  • Responsible for creating of Action classes, JSPs, Model classes.  • Used business delegate to call EJB from struts action class.  • Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate  • Used Java Messaging Services for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  • Deployed Application to BEA weblogic server.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSP  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Extensively worked on spring's framework.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  • Implement the presentation layer (GUI), based on open source framework, involving Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Beans.  • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  • Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on Sql.  • Worked with MySQL for MySQL, SQLYog and Workbench.  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using Selenium.  • Created war files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool.  • Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development  • Maintenance of data in different Oracle Databases and environments using TOAD.  • Built CVS and XML file loaders and splitters for financial data  • Used Clear Case for source Version Control.  • Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  • Tested with the Junit Test Cases for both Professional and Institutional Claims.  • Coordinated with QA team to ensure the quality of application.    Environment: Java, Servlet, EJB, Struts. JMS, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, Java Script, AJAX, UML, Eclipse, Weblogic, SOAP, Selenium, JBoss, ANT, JQuery, NetBeans, JSP, EJB, WSDL, Toad, Water Fall Model, iBatis, EMC Documentum, web services, HTML, XML, MS SQL server2005, My SQL, CVS, JIRA, ClearQuest, Swing, Clearcase, Junit. Python Developer Open Systems Technologies - New York, NY June 2009 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and added new functionality extended existing application using J2EE,XML,Ajax, Servlets, JSP.  • Studied the impact of the requirement and prepared the Requirement functional and technical documents.  • Created different batch programs to clean up tables in DB2 database.  • Extensively used Collections and Exceptions in batch program for database clean up.  • Worked on UNIX shell scripting to run the JAR file created for batch program.  • Used Struts framework in UI designing and validations.  • Responsible for requirements gathering, designing, coding web applications using Ruby on Rails, JavaScripts, HTML, CSS and jQuery.  • Backend development with PHP, MYSQL, BASH, LINUX, UNIX  • Support Agile upgrade and participate in test cases.  • Developed Action Classes, which acts as the controller in Struts framework.  • Client side validations are done using JavaScript and server side validations are done using Struts validator framework.  • Participated in the development of a global customer system by using C++, Oracle, and Rogue Wave C++ Libraries  • Maintaining the C++ knowledge modules product information.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and proxy.  • Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  • AJAX forms are created for update operations.  • Data was converted into JSON using JSP tags.  • Enhanced the existing application to meet the business requirement.  • Establishing JDBC connection using database connection pool.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Ruby on Rails, Bootstrap, CSS JavaScript, and Rspec.  • Developed rich UI web application using javascript libraries like jQueryUI, datagrid, jscolor, highcharts.  • Involved in representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.    Environments: Python, Django, CSV, XML, JSON, AWS, RDBMS, PyCharm, JIRA, Git, GitLab, SVN, REST, SIT. Python Developer Nuspire Networks - Walled Lake, MI March 2008 to May 2009 Responsibilities:  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database tables. These POJOs are serialized Java Classes that would not have the business processes.  • J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  • Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  • Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance  • Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java  • Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  • Worked on bug fixing  • Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  • backend. Extensively used Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers in Microsoft SQL Server.  • Worked on various client websites that used Struts 2 framework, Hibernate and OGNL  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQL Server database for Reports module.  • Implemented real-time patient prescription history verification system using C, Oracle PL/SQL on VMS platform.  • Planning and applying latest Service Packs to different versions of SQL Server  • Involved in Creation, Manipulation and Supporting the SQL Server Database.  • Work with clients on their day to day interactions with CVS Caremark.  • Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  • Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  • Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  • Extracted and modified data from VSAM files for PDF reports.  • Automate nightly batch processing and job alerts using REXX.  • Responsible for migrating Websphere server from v6.1 to v8.0 and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  • Use FileAid datasets to validate backend results of test events.  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  • Actively involved in contributing to RFP and POC activities in IMS.  • Used standard data access technologies like JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate  • Designed, implemented new website features and provided support, maintenance    Environment: HTML, AJDX, Django, datagrid, jscolor, highcharts, JDBC, Python, J2EE, SDLC Education Bachelor's