Sr. Python developer Sr.<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Python developer - Common Cents Fairfield, NJ • Around 9+years of experience as Python developer in using new tools and technical developments to drive improvements throughout entire Software Development Lifecycle.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON and AngularJS and Node.js.  • Experienced with full software development lifecycle, architecting scalable platforms, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL DB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, emacs.  • Hands on experience working with quant/data Python libraries (pandas/NumPy).  • Experienced in Managing, developing and designing a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, and REST API calls.  • Experienced in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using JavaScript frameworks like ReactJS and Angular2.  • Experience in working with various Python Integrated Development, PyCharm, Atom, Spyder, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++, and Sublime Text.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections using Python.  • Build back-end application with Python/ Django, Worked on Dockers and Jenkins.  • Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  • Expertise with cloud platforms like Amazon Web Services (AWS), S3, EC2.  • Good experience in SQL Server, Linux, Open Stack and Shell Scripting.  • Experienced in design patterns such as MVC using Django, Flask and deploying application on Apache tomcat server, containerizing applications using Docker.  • Configured and automated various AWS services like EC2 and S3 using Boto ( Python sdk).  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, Functional testing and User acceptance testing.  • Extensive knowledge on automated batch programs by Linux/UNIX shell Scripts (such as file download, file Validation, assign permissions and workflow executions).  • Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions. Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels and can work as a part of team as well as independently. Work Experience Sr. Python developer Common Cents - Fairfield, NJ May 2018 to Present Description: The convenience you expect, and the service you deserve. Common Cents Store's mission is to exceed our Customers' expectations through Total Customer Commitment. We guarantee Exceptional Friendliness, Clean Stores and Fast Service. It's critical that we listen to our customers any chance we get. Please stop by to tell us about your latest experience.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with server-side production code for application those are robust and high volume.  • Developed applications using mix of technologies ( Python, Django, Flask, Pandas, REST and SOLR).  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked on several standard Python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Scipy, Pandas and PyTables etc.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django Frameworks.  • Created a Python based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS.  • Troubleshoot ETL failures and performed manual loads using SQL stored procedures.  • Implemented new metrics on the MedeAnalytics' Software as a Service (SaaS) Patient Access Analytics platform.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and Flask.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.JS, JQuery and JSON.  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Angular's.  • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Involved in various projects related to Data Modeling, System/Data Analysis, Design and Development for both OLTP and Data warehousing environments.    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, Flask, REST, DevOps, Data E, SOLR, Jira, Bugzilla, Pytest, PyChecker, PyLint, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, HTML, CSS, PostGreSQL, Agile, LINUX and Windows. Python Developer CBRE - Richardson, TX November 2016 to April 2018 Description: CBRE Group, Inc., is an American commercial real estate services and investment firm. It is the largest commercial real estate services company in the world.    Responsibilities:  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Build all database mapping classes using FLASK models.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Created Test plans. Worked on SQL scripts to load data in the tables.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Coding groovy, domain class to handle the business logic.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on FLASK Framework.  • Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Jinja and Angular.js.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Expert knowledge of mobile application development along with various patterns native, web and hybrid concept.  • Involved in business logic discussions and use case design.  • Reviewed product requirement documents, functional specifications, and involved in developing test strategy, test plan and test case documents.  • Created Selenium web-driver automation scripts using Python to validate functionality on various browsers.  • Very good understanding of Microsoft Azure cloud platform. Experience with managing cloud delivery platforms, Azure/Aws.  • Established framework to setup Continuous Integration environment using Jenkins, Nexus.  • Extensive experience in implementing Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (using Jenkins) in an AWS Environment.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Involved in developing selenium automation framework using TestNG. Developed Maven targets to execute automation suites from command line.  • Worked on AWS Cloud and Created instances in EC2.  • Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated with the releases.  • Experienced in designing Test Plans and Test Cases, Verifying and Validating Web based application.  • Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Subversion (SVN).    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, Flask, REST, DevOps, Data E, SOLR, Jira, Bugzilla, Pytest, PyChecker, PyLint, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, HTML, CSS, PostGreSQL, Agile, LINUX and Windows. Python Developer NextGear Capital - Indianapolis, IN November 2015 to October 2016 Description: A NextGear Capital floor plan is distinguished by our cutting-edge technology and innovative dealer Account Portal. Our Account Portal offers dealer clients 24/7 account access from virtually anywhere. Floor and unfloor a vehicle, request or view titles and check a unit's MMR - all in real-time from the convenience of your smart phone.    Responsibilities:  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, NodeJS, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  • Used Django APIs for database access  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic-2014, using SQL developer tools.    Environment: PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Flask, MYSQL, Django, AJAX, NodeJS and UI. Python Developer Austin, TX May 2013 to October 2015 Description: Q2 provides the most comprehensive and adaptable digital banking platform and innovative solutions designed to help banks and credit unions compete to win.    Responsibilities:  • Created a portable fully automated test tool, allowing 24/7 integration support for two development sites around the world and decreasing code turnaround time from 4 hours to 1 hour.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and ReactJS. Implemented a review process in integration automation using Review Board and Gerrit that eliminated the need for a 5 hour per week daily approval meeting.  • Resolved QA bugs for front end and back end.  • Developed a mail script that extracts code defects data per component for a daily report to drive reducing defects in the code base.  • Created modern, REST APIs from existing information assets.  • Designed the UI using HTML5, Angular JS, J-Query and CSS.  • Manage a technician that oversees automation and carries out daily tasks.  • Deploying, managing, and operating scale, highly available, and fault tolerant systems to AWS.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.    Environment: Python, JSON, GitHub, LINUX, HTML, CSS, Java Script, ReactJS, MySQL. Python Developer Datacubes - Schaumburg, IL February 2011 to April 2013 Description: Learn about working at Datacubes Inc.. Join LinkedIn today for free. See who you know at Datacubes Inc., leverage your professional network, and get hired    Responsibilities:  • Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Django database API's to access database objects  • Handled the security contents and issues.  • Experience solving the compatibility issues  • Developed HTML, CSS and JavaScript to present GUI  • Worked in UNIX/LINUX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Gathered and analyzed user or business requirements as well as provided support in programming, developing, and maintaining web-based applications, websites as well as cross platform desktop GUI based applications using Python, PostgreSQL, JavaScript, and HTML languages, including Django and Flask frameworks.  • Worked with version control GIT for the application to accumulate all the work done by team members.  • Created and modified required views/tables/triggers using MySQL and worked on database bug fixes    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, UNIX/LINUX, Python, MySQL, Django and Flask frameworks. Python Developer Akuna Capital - Chicago, IL July 2009 to January 2011 Description: Akuna Capital is a young and booming trading firm with a strong focus on collaboration, cutting-edge technology, data driven solutions and automation.    Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Rewrite existing Python modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML  • documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX Skills Javascript, Php, Python, Pyspark, Scripting, Ajax, Css, Tomcat, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Apache, Jira, Selenium, Eclipse, Java, jquery, Ec2, Amazon emr, Ms office Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Python, java, R, C  Database MySQL, Oracle  Automation Testing Selenium  Scripting Languages CSS, AJAX, Shell, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery.  Servers Apache Tomcat, open stock, IBM web sphere  IDEs/Tools PyCharm, Jupyter, Pyspark, Eclipse, Spyder  Project Management Tools Jira, GitHub, Slack  MS office MS Excel, Word, Power point, etc.  Cloud services AWS S3, EC2, Athena, Amazon EMR