Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Cloudistics, Inc Roswell, GA • Over 9+ years of IT experience in design, development, testing and implementation of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software using various technologies, analyzing complex business requirements & mapping them to system specifications.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.4/2.7, Django 2.0/1.3, Java, Webapp2, Angular.js, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.9/1.7  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django.  • Excellent experience with OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts in Python.  • Working experience in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Experience in developing theRESTful API'S service using Python Django framework.  • Expertise in working with different databases like Oracle, MySQL, and PostgreSQL.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio  • Implemented different python libraries BeautifulSoup, numpy, scipy, pytables, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, Pyvmomi, Fabric and urllib2 in various tasks.  • Experienced in using Message Brokers like RabbitMQ, Kafka and Messaging libraries Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Cloudistics, Inc - Reston, VA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on Self-service development of system For Glogou. This included web crawler, data analysis and management. Worked on San Francisco Food Trucks Project, Application Search Engine Project, Process Amazon Transaction Project  • San Francisco Food Trucks Project ( Python, HTML, Javascript, CSS, GIT)  • Provide Food Trucks web service. It utilizes a minimal amount of source files to support all the functionalities, including a front page (index.html), a style sheet (home.css), a javaScript API code file (map.js) and a folder containing all the supportive images  • Worked on LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Django.  • Developed responsive UI using HTML5/CSS3, AngularJS and Javascript.  • Developed database layer including Tables and Stored procedures in MYSQL.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction  • Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.    Environment: Python, Django, Oracle, Jinja, Flask framework, HTML, JavaScript, Jenkins, Numpy, Jenkins and Jupyter Notebook. Python Developer Corporate Biz Solutions Inc - Titusville, NJ February 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as CSV, itertools and pickle for development.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Used the Python's modules numpy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Associated with debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using Agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the application. Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Developed Spark Code using python for faster processing of data.  • Responsible for managing large databases using MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Experience in using containers like Docker.    Environment: Python 2.7,3.3, Django 1.4, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, MYSQL, Cassandra, JIRA. Python Developer Slait Consulting - Norfolk, VA August 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Scrapy data using Python 2.7.  • Used Django framework for application development. Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Built the Web API on top of Flask framework to perform REST methods.Developed database migrations using SQLAlchemy Migration.  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySql database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting - web and web services.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations,data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Created database-using MySQL, Wrote queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Git for the version control.    Environment: Python 2.7, 2.5, Django 1.7, 1.5, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet MS SQL Server, Nginix server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, postgreSQL Elastic search, T-SQL, Beautiful soup, Teradata, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, and MAC OSX. Python Developer Mitchell Martin, Inc - Charlotte, NC September 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Build all database mapping classes using FLASK models.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web based solution.  • Extensive experience in implementing Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (using Jenkins) in an AWS Environment.  • Created Test plans. Worked on SQL scripts to load data in the tables.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Coding groovy, domain class to handle the business logic.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on FLASK Framework.  • Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Jinja and Angular.js.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Expert knowledge of mobile application development along with various patterns native, web and hybrid concept.  • Involved in business logic discussions and use case design.  • Reviewed product requirement documents, functional specifications, and involved in developing test strategy, test plan and test case documents.  • Experience in Selenium Automation using Selenium Web Driver, Java and Unit Test Framework.  • Created Selenium web-driver automation scripts using Python to validate functionality on various browsers.  • Very good understanding of Microsoft Azure cloud platform. Experience with managing cloud delivery platforms, Azure/Aws.  • Established framework to setup Continuous Integration environment using Jenkins, Nexus.  • Extensive experience in implementing Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (using Jenkins) in an AWS Environment.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Involved in developing selenium automation framework using TestNG. Developed Maven targets to execute automation suites from command line.  • Worked on AWS Cloud and Created instances in EC2.  • Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated with the releases.  • Experienced in designing Test Plans and Test Cases, Verifying and Validating Web based application.  • Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Subversion (SVN). Python Developer Eliassen Group - Austin, TX March 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • The project is developed through Waterfall method of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Involved in Planning, Design, Construction and Operation phases of the project.  • Developed scalable applications using Python Django framework.  • Used AJAX to reduce page reloads.  • Used MVW framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Performed Flow Control, response to Front-End Request using Python, JQuery and AJAX.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web Services and AWS.  • Developed multipage application from beginning to end.  • Maintained user manuals and technical documentation.  • Implemented code to perform CURD operations on Mongo DB using Py Mongo module.  • Implemented Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layouts.  • Created Views and developed Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers.  • Assisted automated test design and various automation framework improvements.  • Used SVN for code maintenance.  • Participated in Daily stand-up meetings and provided status on work progress.    Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, HTML5, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GitHub. Python Developer SummitWorks Technologies Inc - South Plainfield, NJ December 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in prototyping, design, Interface Implementation, testing and maintenance.  • Created use case diagrams, sequence diagrams, and preliminary class diagrams for the system using UML/Rational Rose. Developed GUI using flask for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Involved in the development of front end of the application Python, HTML,CSS,AJAX,JSON and JQuery.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Jinja, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Developed and designed SQL procedures and Linux shell scripts for data export/import and for converting data.  • Performed efficient delivery of code and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile principles.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using custom tools developed inPython and Bash.  • Designed and developed front view components using JSP and HTML.  • Implemented Servlets to handle HTTP requests for oniline requests, payments and registration.  • Developed re-usable utility classes in core java for validation which are used across all modules.  • Developed UI navigation using Struts MVC architecture.  • Used JNDI to support transparent access to distributed components, directories and services.  • Deployed and tested the application with web server Tomcat, WebSphere.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AJAX and JavaScript.  • Worked on Report Module, generating PDF/ CSV according to template.  • Configured and tested the application with database server Oracle 10g and MySQL 5.0  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.    Environment: Python, JSP, Servlets, XML, HTML, Java Script, AJAX, SOAP, WSDL, UML, JDBC, JUnit, Oracle 10g Database. Python Developer ADP - Salem, NH October 2009 to November 2010 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Responsible for using the best technologies to add features to the existing system and services.  • Involved in all aspects of the development process from product inception to scaling in production.  • Accountable for driving software development best practices for the team and also mentoring and developing junior engineers.  • Working in collaboration with project managers and higher management in cross-functional teams within Sales and Account Management, to understand business requirements and develop efficient, elegant approaches to their implementation.  • Writing REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django'sREST framework.  • Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, Tableau 8.2, Beautiful soup, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Restful Web services, Apache, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse. Sr. Python Developer MatchPoint Solutions - San Francisco, CA July 2009 to September 2009 Responsibilities:  • Worked on server-side applications using Python programming.  • Worked in comprehending and examining the client's business requirements.  • Used Django frameworks and Python to build dynamic webpages.  • Developed tools for monitoring and notification using Python.  • Enhanced the application by using HTML and Java script for design and development.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash and worked in tandem with the Flash developer to obtain the correct data through query string.  • Involved in designing database Model, API's, Views using python to build an interactive web based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Implemented Data tables to add, delete, update and display patient records and policy information using PyQt.  • Implemented a module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance using python.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  • Improved the Data Security and generated report efficiently by caching and reusing data.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python.  • MySQL connector and retrieved information using MySQL db.  • Recorded the online users' data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using Pytest.  • Developed the application using the Test-Driven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular JS.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Maintained and Updated the application in accordance to the clientele's requirement    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2008, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (7 years), HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), PYTHON (9 years), DATABASE (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: Python 2.7/3.0, Java, Shell Script, C++, SQL  Framework: Django 1.3/1.4  Database: MySQL, SQL Server, MongoDB, PostgreSQL  Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS, Javascript, pyQT, pY2EXE, HTML,  Versioning Tools: Git, CVS  Appl/Web servers: Apache, NGIX  Operating systems: Linux/Unix, MAC OS