Sr. Python Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Berkshire Hathaway Dallas, TX ? Around 10+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask.  ? Experience in developing a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash. Experience in python, Django, Redis, Zope, Redux, Pyramid Framework.  ? Experience in Configured continuous integration with Jenkins on Amazon EC2.  ? Experience in developing and implementing REST and SOAP Web Services.  ? Strong experience setting up and working with CRUD operations inside Oracle SQL, Microsoft SQL, PostgreSQL, mySQL and MongoDB.  ? Experience in developing Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML, Android, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications including using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  ? Expertise in Devops, Release engineering, Configuration Management, Cloud Infrastructure and Automation with Jenkins, Chef, Puppet. Extensively worked on writing UNIX shell scripts for scheduling the sessions for my testing process of ETL.  ? Exposure to CI/CD (Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment) tools - Jenkins for Continuous Integration, Ansible for continuous deployment. Experience on ETL and ELT Tools like SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) also have knowledge in Data Migrator (IBI).  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, Object Oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  ? Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Flask.  ? Experience in using object-relational mapper (ORM) library to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  ? Experienced in Python modules such as numpy, matplotlib etc for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  ? Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  ? Experience Object Oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Experience in creating/maintaining automation framework and making necessary improvements as needed.  ? Experience in writing scripts for data modelling.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS Cloudwatch, AWS Config, Auto-scaling, IAM user management, and AWS S3.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, Javascript and JQuery.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Developed data format file that is required by the Model to perform analytics using Spark SQL and Hive query language.  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Experienced in writing PERL script to extract data from text files, web automation and converting the file formats.  ? Analyzed the sql scripts and designed it by using Spark SQL for faster performance.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  ? Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  ? Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  ? Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  ? Used Python library Beautifulsoup for web scraping.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  ? Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Berkshire Hathaway - Dallas, TX September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the User Interface for the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and JSON.  ? Successfully migrated the database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data Integrity.  ? Developed merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Used Django Database APIs to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  ? Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined Function.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  ? Implemented data analysis with various analytical tools such as Python/SQL, Pandas, NumPy,  Matplotlib, Statsmodels, Gensim, Jupyter Notebook, and Anaconda.  ? Used jQuery for all client-side data manipulation.  ? Worked on data queries to obtain lists of references from online databases for analysis.  ? Used Perl in web automation and in developing web chat box for the customers.  ? Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Maintenance and continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  ? Implemented of Automation framework, database testing using AutoEasy.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? We have implemented pyspark for Transformation and Actions in Spark.  ? Implemented various Spark Actions and Transformations by creating RDD's in HDFS.  ? Developed Spark scripts by using Scala IDE's as per the business requirement.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  ? Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  ? Supporting the data warehousing application to make sure the jobs are run as scheduled and the SLAs are met.  ? Maintaining the application for daily operations and scaling according to Business requirements.  ? Involved in the Complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  ? Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQt, PyQuery, Agile, SDLC, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angularjs, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, Windows, PostgreSQL, Numpy, SQLAlchemy. Sr. Python Developer Atlanta, GA November 2015 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Develop the existing application to enhance the features using Django Framework and improve the performance using SOAP Web Services.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, Bootstrap, and REST API calls using the JSON.  ? Used GitHub for version control.  ? Integrating the application with Django REST framework for building the API's.  ? Worked with on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Selecting features, building and optimizing classifiers using machine learning techniques  ? Data mining using state-of-the-art methods  ? Extending company's data with third party sources of information when needed  ? Enhancing data collection procedures to include information that is relevant for building analytic systems  ? Processing, cleansing, and verifying the integrity of data used for analysis  ? Doing ad-hoc analysis and presenting results in a clear manner  ? Creating automated anomaly detection systems and constant tracking of its performance  ? Extensively used XLSX reader and writer modules to read, write and analyze data and project the results as per the client request.  ? Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  ? Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO)  ? Creating Restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL and Oracle.  ? Using SQLAlchemy with Flask and PostgreSQL as database for developing the web application.  ? Used REST and SOAP API for testing web service for server-side changes.  ? Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintain and related task using Jenkins, Maven, Python, Bash.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgresql with complete data integrity.  ? Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bitbucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Continuous improvement in integration workflow, project testing, and implementation of continuous integration pipeline with Jenkins.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.10, MySQL, Python Scripting, MongoDB, AJAX, SOAP, REST, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS). Python Developer Well Care - Reston, VA January 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angularjs, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  ? Designed/wrote the tech specs (Source-Target mappings) for the ETL mappings along with the Unit Test scripts.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  ? Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  ? Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  ? Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  ? Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  ? Version control using GITHub.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Go language, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer BCBS, MI March 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  ? Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  ? Using ANT, Puppet/ Chef Scripts with Ivy to build the application and deploy.  ? Using Chef and AWS allowed me to reduce costs for the department and eliminate unwarranted resources. Automated provisioning of cloud infrastructure with Chef.  ? Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  ? Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  ? Experienced in hand-coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  ? Experience with JavaScript Frameworks Ext JS, AngularJS, jQuery  ? Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, .NET/C#, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  ? Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Experience in report writing using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and in creating various types of reports like table, matrix, and chart report, web reporting by customizing URL Access.  ? Provide high-level technical support and administration for GIS-based routing software.  ? Ensure data integrity, performing extensive quality control checks of GIS data and non-spatial databases  ? Front-end web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using Golang and SQL.  ? Designing and tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of FlashVars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  ? Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Responsible for all Public (AWS) and Private (OpenStack/VMWare/DCOS/Mesos/Marathon) cloud infrastructure.  ? Supported development team with deployment workflow and continuous integration using Gitlab, GitLab CI, Rundeck, Docker and SaltStack provisioning.  ? Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence.  ? Reviewed and implemented instrument pricing and modelling methodologies in collaboration with technical engineers. Analyzed and documented how instrument prices move as underlying market data sources change.  ? Actively participated in requirement gathering sessions and capability planning for multi data center Cassandra cluster.  ? Installed, Configured, administered and monitored multi Data center Cassandra clusters.  ? Involved in upgrading the present Oracle data model to Cassandra data model.  ? Evaluated and tuned data model by running endurance tests using JMeter, Cassandra Stress Tool and OpsCenter.  ? Writing bash shell scripts on local setups to automate jobs  ? Designed front end using UI, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  ? Full Stack Developer for custom Drupal 7 build. Responsibilities included site maintenance, new feature development and user support.    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQt, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, Celery, Flash, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, SQLAlchemy, Android OS Android 1.5 to Android 6.0 etc. Python Developer Open Systems Technologies - New York, NY May 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for using the best technologies to add features to the existing system and services.  ? Involved in all aspects of the development process from product inception to scaling in production.  ? Responsible for driving software development best practices for the team and also, mentoring and developing junior engineers.  ? Working in collaboration with project managers and higher management in cross-functional teams within Sales and Account Management, to understand business requirements and develop efficient, elegant approaches to their implementation.  ? Writing REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django REST framework.  ? Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  ? Also involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  ? Assisted the development team in sending the correct data via query strings using PostgreSQL as the back-end for storing data.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Responsible for configuring NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongodb to for increasing compatibility with Django.  ? Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Good experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many bug fixes for applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  ? Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors).  ? Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  ? Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  ? Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  ? Generated Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  ? Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  ? Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, CSS, HTML, Angularjs, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, GIT, urllib, urllib2. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (10+ years), Css (10+ years), Django (10+ years), Html (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    Languages Python 3.5/2.7, Python with django, Java, C, SQL, Shell Scripting  Frameworks Django, Flask  Databases Oracle, SQL, SQL Server, Teradata, MongoDB,  Web Technologies AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, PERL, jQuery, HTML, XML, CSS, XSLT, Bootstrap  Web Services SOAP, RESTful  IDES/Tools PyCharm, Sublime Text, Spyder, Emacs, NetBeans, Eclipse  Cloud Platforms Azure, Amazon web services  Operating Systems Linux, Unix, Windows 10, 08, 07, XP  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas dataframe  Version Control Systems Git, GitHub  SDLC Agile methodologies, scrum framework