Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - DXC Technologies Atlanta, GA • Overall 4 years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, CSS, HTML.  • Expert knowledge and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience using various version control systems like GitHub, SVN.  • Hands on experience with installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat server.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server-side applications Django and Flask.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans.  • Strong experience with frontend technologies like HTML5, CSS3.  • Experience in writing numerous test cases using JUnit.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with AWS.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest and UnitTest.  • Hands on Experience with parallel computing, multithreading. Experience with JSON based REST Web services. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer DXC Technologies - Dallas, TX April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application. Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Build numerous Lambda functions using python and automated the process using the event created.  • Hands on experience in migrating Business from a physical data centre environment to AWS.  • Experienced in setting up EC2 instances, security groups and Setting up databases in AWS using S3bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Performed S3 buckets creation, policies on IAM role based polices, MFA and customizing the JSON template  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT.  • Understanding of secure-cloud configuration, CloudTrail, cloud-security technologies (VPC, Security Groups, etc.) and cloud-permission systems (IAM).  • Extensive use of version controlling system GIT.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  Environment: Django, AWS, HTML, Python 3.7, Rest API, Eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins. Python Developer Coca-Cola - Atlanta, GA May 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, Flask, HTML.  • Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  • Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • With using of Python OS module on Linux environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day to day tasks.  • Extensive usage of SQL Profiler and Analytics for query optimization and maintenance.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Used web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Integration of data storage solutions using Django ORM system for MongoDB.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, Django and Bootstrap.  • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Collaborated with team of QA to build and populate DB and to ensure the standards.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Developed and Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.  Environment: Python 3.4;2.7, Django 1.9;1.7, SQL, Linux, Mongo DB, HTML, Eclipse, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, AWS. Web Application developer The Blog Smart Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on large-scale, high-traffic Python web applications to define and implement new features, enhance core functionality, and integrate with other platforms and services.  • Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  • Installation, configuring, upgrading, migrating, and patching of DB2, Oracle, and SQL Server.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web-based applications.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, CSS, Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, Eclipse, GitHub. Education Master's Skills Django, Html, Bootstrap, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Sql, Soap, Css, Jira, Couchdb, Mongodb, Java, Rest, Http