Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Westwood mortgage Sunnyvale, CA • 4 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, Django, Java, C++, HTML, Oracle.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and Java.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude.  • Substantial and Excellent working knowledge of Odoo ERP versions  • Strong knowledge in Python, Postgresql  • Strong working knowledge on Linode Servers  • Worked as Off-shore team coordinator ensuring the quality and completeness of deliverables on time based on client requirements and expectations  • Excellent trouble-shooter, strong communication & interpersonal skills and a committed team player, resulting in excellent rapport with employees and team members and problem solver with solid negotiating skills to help bring team members together  • Seeking a challenging software development opportunity in a dynamic environment where innovation and sense of ownership are valued and encouraged Work Experience Python Developer Westwood mortgage - Seattle, WA June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Involved in multiple phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design,  • development, implementation and testing.  • Creating Python API's  • Analyze the software requirements to determine feasibility of design within time and cost constrains.  • Working with Dataiku for creating forecasting models required for Data Analysis.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Manipulated data using CRUD operations of MongoDB and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Twitter Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Stored the data in the form of JSON structure based documents, stored in a collection using MongoDB.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Created entity models for data consuming and manage communications between DAL and database.  • Actively involved in designing the database and tables including stored procedures and triggers in SQL Server following the Database first approach.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Django, PYQt, Bootstrap, XML, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, Rest, Git Hub, MySQL, Dataiku, Python, SQL Server, HTML5, JavaScript, MongoDB. Web Developer / Python Developer Cybrosys Technologies Pvt.Ltd - Calicut, Kerala May 2014 to January 2017 Project #1:  FPX-PaymentgatewayIntegration, Construction Management, Odoo Migration V8-V9, Pet  Management, Hospital Management  Location: Middle East Clients  • Developed UI, layout and front-end programming for Python-based web application that matches requirements of multiple clients.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of Python project.  • Created multiple Odoo applications for Accounting, Sales, CRM, HR, Inventory, Report templates, Odoo Website Functionalities.  • Created PDF and XLS reports in Odoo application  • Extensively used PostgreSQL through PGAdmin for reporting, debugging and administrative tasks.  • Single headedly dealt the Odoo version upgrade from 7 to 8 for a retail client.  • Co-ordinated and executed Server Installation and configuration for python/Odoo.  • Created Web pages for multiple clients based on Django framework and MVT architectural patterns.  • Worked on FPX and RSA cryptographic algorithm for the payment gateways from application to the banks.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mockups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  • Led the front-end testing for applications across phases including unit, Performance and User acceptance testing.  • Excellent Coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX.  • Handled all aspects of the application development including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying.  • Interacted with clients to understand their existing applications and design the site per their system requirements.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end-user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Explored various emerging JavaScript technologies such as Node.js and Backbone.js for future product and feature development  Key skills: Python, Postgresql, Django, CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript    Project #2:  Client: Alsabla, Oman  Realestate Management: Developed an independent module that included property management, rent agreements, Auto instalment Submission, Tracking and effective management of assets, Alerts on document expiry, Cost enter and PDC management. It also includes DMS implementation.  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering from the client team  • Analysis of the client business system  • Design development  • Adapted Odoo Mentor role for the client team  • Testing and debugging  Key skills: Python, Postgresql, xml, Odoo V9, CSS, HTML    Project #3:  Client: Bloomax, Saudi Arabia  ERP: Trading ERP for Bloomax  Description: A complete ERP for managing the business functionalities for trading. This includes the accounting, sales, CRM, HR, Inventory, POS, Report templates, Odoo Website Functionalities, cost centre management, PDC management, Visa expiree handling for the accounting and HR. Developed a new email template for auto alerting of document expiration. It also included integration of biometric machine with HR.  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering from the client team  • Analysis of the client business system  • Design development  • Adapted Odoo Mentor role for the client team  Key skills: Python, Postgresql, Javascript, xml, Odoo V8, CSS, HTML Education BS in Computer Science & Engineering Government Engineering College Thrissur - Thrissur, IN Skills CSS (3 years), DJANGO (3 years), HTML (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), PYTHON (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Languages C, java, HTML, XML, CSS  Scripting Python, Java Scripts  Python Framework Django 1.3/1.4  ERP Odoo V7,8, 9, 10  Databases MySQL 5.1, SQL Server, Oracle, MongoDB  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Tools Eclipse, Pycharm, PG Admin, Django Web Framework, Putty, MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows-98/NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista, Mac OSX