Sr. Python Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Sony Corp Miami, FL Brief: - I am working in IT industry for more than 11 years and have been into lead role for two of my recent project. I am good with backend and worked with Numpy, Scipy for numerical analysis and for MVCs I have worked on django 1.6/2.0 version. I do have hands on experience in working on map reduce algorithm, Tensor flow and NN building. I have good command in the python scripting and python programming from scratch to go live I have worked on each segment of project development.    Technical Summary:-   • Good experience in Python in creating scalable and robust applications along with other technologies.  • Experienced in Python based MVC frameworks - Django, Flask.  • Good knowledge in Python coding and JSON.  • Skillful experience in Python by developing software's using new tools, libraries used: libraries Numpy, Scipy, PySide, twitter, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas data-frame, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to improvise software development process.  • Mastering in implementing MVC architecture using Django for web based applications in OOP concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Solid understanding in Design Patterns, MVC, Python Algorithms, Python Data Structures.  • Good knowledge in NoSQL platform, such as MongoDB, and Couch base.  • Experienced in WAMP and LAMP Architecture.  • Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django.  • Good understanding on Bit Bucket and GIT version control system.  • Strong knowledge with REST API development.  • Experience with Agile and SDLC methodologies.   • Highly proficient in analytical problem solving skills.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, designing and architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django.   • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.   • Experienced in Python's modules like Numpy, regular expressions, collections, dates & times and OS modules.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Services) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Supported/maintained client website within the DJANGO CMS system for various website needs  • Created Python and Bash scripts to monitor & increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations.  • Developed a Django CMS based promotion management system offering the ability to created arbitrary forms through an admin interface.  • Part of team implementing REST API's in Python using python based micro-framework called Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Sony Corp - New York, NY December 2016 to Present Responsibilities:-    • Generously practiced on data cleaning and ensured data quality, consistency, integrity using Pandas, NumPy.  • Generalized linear models, Poisson regression, and single and multiple linear regressions.  • Principal components analysis, common factor analysis, and linear discriminate analysis.  • Other machine learning models, including support vector machine.  • Developing test automation framework using python and SeeTest APIs  • Genetic algorithms and heuristic modeling for non-differentiable problems,  • Cluster analysis and unsupervised learning.  • Used pandas, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Scikit-learn in Python for developing various machine learning algorithms.  • Development of automation of Kubernetes clusters..  • Used Python Libraries to write fully functioning test automation process.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplot library  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MySQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector MySQL package to retrieve information.  • Used Hive to store the data and perform data cleaning steps for huge datasets.  • Scraped and retrieved web data as JSON using Scrapy, presented with Pandas library.  • Automating Jenkins to create Docker Images and push to container repository.  • Scheduled, deployed and managed container replicas onto a node cluster using Kubernetes.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy.  • Used Python (Numpy, Scipy, Pandas) to develop variety of models and algorithms for analytic purpose  • Processing, cleansing, and verifying the integrity of data used for analysis before ingestion.  • Data mining, optimization algorithms to analyze data on top of Hadoop/Hive.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.    Environment: Python, React, Automation, Python 3.x, Scipy, Neural network, Kubernetes ,Flask, Lambda ,Django 1.4, Angular, ORM , Elastic Search, GitHub, Linux, Pandas, Shell Scripting. Lead Python Developer Nvidia INC - Santa Clara, CA October 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:-    • Developed views and templates with Python and FLASK view controller & Templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Prediction of Time Series Financial Data using LSTM for Algorithmic Trading by Tensorflow.  • Object Detection for Full Motion Video with TensorFlow.  • Object Detection with Nvidia DIGITS.  • Implemented a CNN (neural network) for detecting invasive animal species using thermal images (Tensorflow)  • Image creation using Generative Adversarial Networks in Tensorflow and Nvidia DIGITS  • Established DevOps protocols, integrated collaborative Git, and deploying fully tested production features  • Worked on rebranding the existing web pages to clients according to the type of deployment.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Configuring and managing Openstack components such as keystone, nova, neutron, glance, swift, Heat.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Developed views and templates with DVC and template language to create a user-friendly web interface.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python and Bootstrap.  • Used Python (Numpy, Scipy, Pandas, Scikit-Learn, Seaborn), and Spark 2.0 (PySpark, MLlib) to develop variety of models and algorithms for analytic purposes  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance, backup and recovery.  • Worked on Migrating data from Django ORM to MySQL database with complete data integrity.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from. Python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Implemented Mock REST API using express framework in Node JS  • Experience in using Scikit-Learn and Stats models in Python for Machine Learning and Data Mining.  • Development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python 3, Django 1.6, React, Angular, Docker, Ansible, , XML, MySQL, microservices, Pandas, Scipy, AJAX, Flask, Oracle SQL Server, SQL, JavaScript GITHub. Python Developer Inpensa INC - Edison, NJ September 2011 to July 2014 Responsibilities:-    • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed local deployments in Kubernetes, creating local cluster and deploying application containers.  • Used REST based microservices with REST template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed the UI for the client.  • Experience in streaming the data between Kafka and other databases  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, PostgresSQL, MongoDB.  • Working with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Developing server based web application to determine patient journey using Flask.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, matplotlib.  • Scheduled, deployed and managed container replicas onto a node cluster using Kubernetes.  • Worked in design and developing Application leveraging MongoDB.  • Experience working with real-time streaming solutions using Kafka.  • Developed internal API's using node.js, and used MongoDB for fetching the schema.  • Worked on Node.js for developing server-side web applications.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development with MySQL.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, Postgre SQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  • Image manipulation backend services for real time use as RESTful API  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL alchemy.  • Performed debugging and troubleshooting the web applications using Git as a version-controlling tool to collaborate and coordinate with the team members  • Development of Python APIs to dump the structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Created a Single Page Application module using Angular JS to manage payee list for customers. Developed AngularJs controller's services, factories, and custom directives.  Environment:- Python, Django, XML,chef, Java, AWS, Kafka, Angularjs, CSS,PostgreSQL, MySQL, JSON, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, agile, Microservices, Restfull , UNIX and Windows. Python Developer Cephalon - Frazer, PA March 2008 to August 2011 Responsibilities:-    • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Experience in creating JavaScript for using DML operation with MongoDB.  • Usage of advance features like in python for sharing the information across the applications.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Created tables utilizing PyQtto display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Done Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling and process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the jobs using shell scripting.  • Developed Lambda scripts to automate ETL Jobs  • Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Handled all the client side validation using maven and Jenkins with python.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    Environment:- Python, Django, XML, chef, Java, Angularjs, MySQL, JSON, DHTML, Shell Scripts, lambda, agile, Restfull, UNIX and Windows. Java Developer Equifax - Atlanta, GA May 2006 to February 2008 Responsibilities:-    • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed local deployments in Kubernetes, creating local cluster and deploying application containers.  • Used REST based microservices with REST template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed the UI for the client.  • Scheduled, deployed and managed container replicas onto a node cluster using Kubernetes.  • Worked in design and developing Application leveraging MongoDB.  • Developed internal API's using node.js, and used MongoDB for fetching the schema.  • Worked on Node.js for developing server-side web applications.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development with MySQL database, Node.js as the backend.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.    Environment: C, C++, HTML, ORM, CSS, PL/SQL, Linux and Windows, Python, Linux, HTML, CSS, Django, Infomatica, OOA/OOD. Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (10+ years), PYTHON (10+ years), XML (8 years), MYSQL (10+ years), MONGODB (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Summary:-  • Good experience in Python in creating scalable and robust applications along with other technologies.  • Experienced in Python based MVC frameworks - Django, Flask.  • Good knowledge in Python coding and JSON.  • Skillful experience in Python by developing software's using new tools, libraries used: libraries Numpy, Scipy, PySide, twitter, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas data-frame, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to improvise software development process.  • Mastering in implementing MVC architecture using Django for web based applications in OOP concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Solid understanding in Design Patterns, MVC, Python Algorithms, Python Data Structures.  • Good knowledge in NoSQL platform, such as MongoDB, and Couch base.  • Experienced in WAMP and LAMP Architecture.  • Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django.  • Good understanding on Bit Bucket and GIT version control system.  • Strong knowledge with REST API development.  • Experience with Agile and SDLC methodologies.  • Highly proficient in analytical problem solving skills.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, designing and architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in Python's modules like Numpy, regular expressions, collections, dates & times and OS modules.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Services) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Supported/maintained client website within the DJANGO CMS system for various website needs  • Created Python and Bash scripts to monitor & increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations.  • Developed a Django CMS based promotion management system offering the ability to created arbitrary forms through an admin interface.  • Part of team implementing REST API's in Python using python based micro-framework called Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.