Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Prime Inc Columbus, OH • Over 8+ Years of experience in Analyzing, Developing, Managing and implementing various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django, Java and mapping the requirements to thef systems.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, NodeJS, AngularJS, Wire-Framing and HTML5.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS, Adobe flash.  • Created new JSP views to incorporate backend functionality to display on the UI screens using client rich technologies like JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS files..  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQLDB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Development of web applications using Python frameworks as Django.  • Successful migration of the default Django's database (SQLite) to PostgreSQL to improve efficiency, integrity and security of data.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  • Hands on experience in using Hadoop ecosystem components like Hadoop, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, HBase, Cassandra, Spark, Spark Streaming, Spark SQL, Oozie, ZooKeeper, Kafka, Flume, MapReduce and Yarn.  • Worked on PostgreSQL development (tables, views, joins) and migrations from SQLite databases preserving the integrity.  • Experience in implementing with server-side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node JS and Django framework.  • Experience in working with number of public and private cloud platforms like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Rackspace Cloud and Open stack.  • Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Elastic Search, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon CloudFront).  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Prime Inc - Springfield, MO August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Worked on different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Used ES6 features libraries to handle Web socket events.  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Implemented the various requirements using the jS, HTML5 and cordova best practices and standards.  • Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • As Enterprise Architect and senior OOD/OOP developer, created complex web and mobile business system applications using many specialized software tools also was trained in: C++, Java, Java Beans.  • applications programmed in Python, Django, Flask, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Apache, Nginx, Gunicorn  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Created single-page applications using React and ES6, including a flashcard application and an Evernote clone.  • Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Experience in Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installing and configuring Kubernetes.  • Designed the API structures with Node.js running on Nginx.  • Extensively used Grunt and Gulp as an associate to Node JS to establish the connectivity between database and client.  • Capable of using AWS utilities such as EMR, S3 and cloud watch to run and monitor Hadoop and spark jobs on AWS.  • Expertise in React.js framework to develop the SPA and working with React Flux and Redux architecture.  • Created marketing collateral to get partners onboard OpenShift Marketplace.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, LESS, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Developed server by using Flask framework, writing routes and queries to build Restful API.  • Worked in designing tables in Hive, MYSQL using SQOOP and processing data like importing and exporting of databases to the HDFS, involved in processing large datasets of different forms including structured, semi-structured and unstructured data.  • Developed rest API's using python with flask and Django framework and done the integration of various data sources including Java, JDBC, RDBMS, Shell Scripting, Spreadsheets, and Text files.  • Worked with Hadoop architecture and the daemons of Hadoop including Name-Node, Data Node, Job Tracker, Task Tracker, and Resource Manager.  • Created and populated digital brochures using PageTurnPro and built photo galleries on website in the Django CMS and also using Django CMS plugin.  • Configuring SSO for different applications in different domains with Cookie Provider and troubleshooting issues related to them.  • Maintenance and development of a high-traffic and -demand site and platform running on a custom-rolled Django CMS.  • Experienced in developing service oriented architecture (SOA) and web Services using SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL and UDDI.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB and Knowledgeable with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Expertise in writing cloud computing applications using ruby.  • Managing content population and deployments through Django CMS.  • Experience in designing and developing interactive User Interfaces, usability, web and client/server applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with Protractor to create end to end framework using Angular JS.  • Mentoring of junior members for agile (Scrum) process & Junit testing.  • Created webservices using WTP tool plugin to the eclipse 3.2 IDE which is deployed as a separate application using Maven scripts.  Environment: Python, Django, Django-cms, SSO, database access, Django-cms plugins, CircleCI, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Agile, MAVEN, Hadoop, Bigdata,ES6, Redux, Object Oriented programming, Flask, Twisted, Jenkins, Webpack, Grunt, and Less, HTTP, web servers, NGINX, Kubernetes, OpenShift. Sr. Python Developer Freedom Mortgage Corp - Columbia, MD February 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS and good experience with AWS storage services (S3)  • Wrote and tested Python scripts to create new data files for Linux server configuration using a Python template tool.  • Developed RESTful API micro-web services in controller and service layer to handle http requests.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  • Developed cross browser compatible RWD with use of HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and jQuery Mobile.  • Created new JSP views to incorporate backend functionality to display on the UI screens using client rich technologies like JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS files.  • Worked on migrating MapReduce programs into Spark transformations using Scala. Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Created a Handler function in Python using AWS Lambda that can invoke when the service is executed.  • Assist with SSL installations, on Apache-Nginx server  • Developed the User Interactive web application in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Less, Javascript and Angular.JS , as per company's standards.  • Developed the OpenShift Test-Drive for Admins (Installation of OCP 3.5, Cluster management and Project  • OAUTH and SSO are used for authentication and Login services.  • Used Elastic search as the data indexer and query parser  • All the Python code is formatted in PEP8 Coding standard.  • Worked on analyzing Hadoop stack and different big data analytic tools including Pig, Hive, HBase database and Sqoop.  • Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  • Used Jenkins for automating Builds and Automating Deployments.  • Used Jenkins for the continuous integration process, automation and assisted in the code coverage and analysis by generating reports  • Loaded and transformed large sets of structured, semi-structured and unstructured data using Hadoop/Big Data concepts.  • Designed and implemented 100+ Swagger-based RESTful-APIs and unit test cases with Flask and Python,  • Responsible design and development of user portal using Ruby on Rails framework.  • Developed backend web services using Node.js and stored dependencies using Node Package Manager (NPM).  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS and good experience with AWS storage services (S3)  • Engaged in understanding PHP Code and re-build the code in Python.  • Worked on serializing data using Serializes in DjangoRest Framework.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Experienced in implementing Service oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Worked on various industry standard tools and APIs like Eclipse, SQL Developer, SOAP UI, StarUml,Ant Script, Log4J,JAX RPC/JAX WS, XSLT, XPath, HTML, JDBC, JMS, Weblogic 11g etc.  • Configured SSO between WebSphere Portal and Lotus Domino Server using LTPA.  • Unit testing was performed using JUnit and Version control through Git.    Environment:: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, Restful web service, MySQL, SQLite, AWS (EC2, S3), , Karma, Jenkins, Twisted, Selenium., MongoDB, soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, , Subversion (SVN), ES6, Redux, Object Oriented programming, Flask, Twisted, Jenkins, Grunt, and Less, HTTP, web servers, NGINX, OpenShift. Sr. Python Developer United health Group - Columbus, OH February 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible in upgrading their operating system from OpenVMS to Linux and converting all DCL programs to Python.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, NodeJS, AngularJS, Wire-Framing and HTML5.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS, Adobe flash.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQLDB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • Worked on PythonOpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWareAPI calls.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jenkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MySQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pairbasedprogramming.  • Designed and developed integration methodologies between client web portals and existing software infrastructure using SOAP API's and vendor specific frameworks.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Netbeans, Jboss, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water fall model, UML, JSP & SERVLET, ANT, Xml. Python Developer Comcast Corporation - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options and used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats and Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Assisted with the addition of Hadoop processing to the IT infrastructure.  • Implementing customer data collection with PySpark/Hadoop analytics.  • Developed Hadoop integrations for data ingestion, data mapping and data processing.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection Angular.JS 2.  • Involved in developing the Angular.JS Meteor framework for the Single Page Application development.  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development. Framework based on CherryPy with GnuPg encryption (reGnuPg module) on the top.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports and involved in modifying data using SAS/BASE, SAS/ MACROS.  • Worked on JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Design and Setting up of environment of Mongo dB with shards and replica sets. (Dev/Test and Production).  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, jQuery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, and Nose.  • Extracting data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS data sets.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline and NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team and developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing and used Django framework for application development.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries and used Perforce for the version control.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, GIT, MySQL, SAS, NLP. Python Developer SA Technologies Inc - Santa Clara, CA October 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Worked on CSS Bootstrap to develop web applications.  • Used AJAX to modify small portions of the web pages by sending a request to the server avoiding the need of reloading the entire web page.  • Designed and developed Web services using XML and jQuery.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • esponsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used NumPy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Implement code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using Python Database Connector.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, NO SQL, jQuery. Web developer CITI Bank - New York, NY October 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed project using MongoDB, ExpressJS, Angular 2, NodeJS, Typescript and Bootstrap  • Developed various Angular 2 Components, Modules, Services (observable/promises) and Pipes using TypeScript.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as user performs application tasks.  • Used angular validation controls so it can help managers to fill forms easier.  • Used Twitter bootstrap concepts to make the web application responsive to mobile and tablet screens.  • Creating Procedures and functions.  • Design and development of various reports.  • Windows service Development and deployment  • Design and Coding, Moving Load Analysis (MLA), Moving Load Analysis is windows-based application for analyzing the effect of moving load on bridge. Application is developed using three-tier architecture.  • Visual Studio, SQL Server, Involved in Forms design and development.  • Creating objects like tables, indexes & views.  • Actively involved in code review and code quality check process.  • Implemented optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites.  • Worked with backend developer to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unnecessary API calls.  • Evaluated JSON from the server and making Ajax requests using XHR object and handling JSON objects.  • Involved in Restful web services to call for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Worked closely with testing team and performed unit testing using JASMINE test cases.  Environment:, Angular 2, Typescript, Angular CLI, ExpressJS, NodeJS, MongoDB, Mongoose, AJAX, Lodash, JSON, NPM, Bootstrap, XML, Jasmine and GIT. Software Developer Novartis - Seattle, WA February 2006 to September 2009 Responsibilities:  • Implement pages based on mockups from designers/style guides  • Develop enterprise applications using JS MVC frameworks (React.js and Redux)  • Build Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and React.JS, Redux.  • Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • DOM manipulations using JavaScript  • Write Unit Test suites using Jest.  • Used Webpack to minify and bundle the code along with gulp.  • Worked on JOI Validations both on client side and server side.  • Developing CSS Style for web page using SASS Structure.  • Handling cross browser compatibility issues  • Implementing Web Accessibility and SEO techniquesTransformation and integration of API's  • Used SQL and C++, created and maintained a nightly process that loaded, parsed, validated and imported data from different sources and platforms into SQL servers.  • Providing analysis and recommendations based on current reporting technology trends. Completed classes in SSRS and Oracle Bi  • Managing 1+ TB production databases which handle all incoming direct-business mutual funds trades, include monitoring of internal and external jobs, designing production scripts, working with lines of business through various issues that may arise  • Working on a team to design and upgrade of databases to SQL Server 2008  • Headed a team which processed, and remediated 5 years of mutual fund data to clients in an industry wide effort to correct mutual funds breakpoint issues using Microsoft SQL databases.  • Work with Product Owners, UX Designers build conceptual demos and POCs  • Make REST API calls to fetch data  • Use Radar/Agile tool to track tasks assigned  Follow Agile methodology and Test-Driven Development    Environment: JavaScript, React.JS, Redux, Jest, GIT, NPM, Webpack  Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring MVC, Spring Integration, Ibatis, Oracle, JQuery, XML, WAS , Accurev, IBM DataPower, XSLT, CSS, AJAX, HP Fortify, SSO, Siteminder, REST Webservices, JMS, Webspher MQ. Education Master of Science Science and Engineering Florida State University Skills AJAX (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), JQuery. (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), XML (10+ years)