Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Kansas City, MO • around 2 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask.  • Experience in Configured continuous integration with Jenkins on Amazon EC2.  • Strong experience setting up and working with CRUD operations inside Oracle SQL, Microsoft SQL, PostgreSQL, MySQL and MongoDB.  • Experience in developing and implementing REST and SOAP Web Services.  • Strong developing knowledge Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  • Actively involved full software development lifecycle, architecting scalable platforms, Object Oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Expertise in MVC frameworks like Django, Flask.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience in using object-relational mapper (ORM) library to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Good knowledge of AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS Cloudwatch, AWS Config, Auto-scaling, IAM user management, and AWS S3.  • Proficient knowledge on python Data manipulation for loading and extraction as well as with python libraries such as NumPy, SciPy and Pandas and Spark 2.0 (PySpark, MLlib) to develop variety of models and algorithms for analytic purposes. Work Experience Python Developer YRHP - Surat, Gujarat December 2016 to November 2017 Role:  • YRHP is the community for software solutions and business expansion, it mainly works for making India digital. My Role was to gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development and deployment. Designed and developed the User Interface for the website using HTML, Django, CSS, JavaScript and JSON.  Responsibilities:  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Develop the existing application to enhance the features using Django Framework and improve the performance using SOAP Web Services.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Designed/wrote the tech specs (Source-Target mappings) for the ETL mappings along with the Unit Test scripts.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, charts and graphs.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django, JavaScript, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flask, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, MYSQL, AWS EC2, AWS RDS. Intern Python Developer YRHP - Surat, Gujarat May 2016 to November 2016 • Front-end web development using HTML/CSS, Django, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using Golang and SQL.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  • Designed Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  • Experienced in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Experienced in hand-coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Good experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  • configured NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongodb to for increasing compatibility with Django.  Environment: Python, SQL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, PL/SQL, MySQL, Django, Bootstrap, Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO January 2018 to June 2019 BE in Computer Science Gujarat Technological University August 2013 to July 2017 Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, DJANGO, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, PHP, PYTHON, FLASK, MYSQL, SQL, JAVA, HTML5, MONGODB, WEB SERVICES, EC2, CSS, Jquery