Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Capital One Atlanta, GA ? I have 9+Years of experience as a Python Developer with Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python)  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming (OOPs) database design.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.5/3.6, Django 1.7  ? Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm.  ? Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, JDBC, XML, Python, Django.  ? Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django  ? Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Java Script, jQuery.  ? Worked on Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Glacier, SQS, SNS, Cloud Formation, VPC, IAM, Route 53, EBS, DynamoDB, Lambada, Redshift.  ? Worked closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash  ? Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  ? Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  ? Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  ? Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  ? Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB, and Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors  ? Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity  ? Configure backup, alerts, repairs and monitoring of Cassandra clusters, in conjunction with Nagios/OpsCenter and custom scripts.  ? Good Knowledge of web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  ? Used Django as a proxy to interact with Rest services and also interacting with Database.  ? Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP web Service for inter operable software applications.  ? Good knowledge of version control software - CVS, GitHub  ? Efficient in demonstrating all phases of software development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  ? Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod python.  ? Experienced in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla.  ? Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits.  ? Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  ? Experience in Database Administration, development, design, maintenance and production support of relational databases, business applications, new server setup, MySQL Server installation, upgrade, migration.  ? Reviewed requirement documents with the business and development team to understand the architecture and functionality of the application and consolidated these requirements in appropriate modules in Test strategy.  ? Experienced in Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  ? Experienced in Requirement gathering, use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Capital One - Atlanta, GA November 2017 to Present Responsibilities    ? Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users  ? Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management  ? Developed Python application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting  ? Worked on Python Open stack API's, used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  ? Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries sickest-learn and spicy.  ? Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web based application in OOP concepts.  ? Worked on several python packages like Matpoltlib, cx_Freeze, Pillow, Numpy, sockets.  ? Worked on Processing which consists of data transformation, data sourcing and also mapping, Conversion and loading.  ? Worked on design and development of Unix Shell Scripting as a part of the ETL Process to automate the process of loading.  ? Worked on ETL tasks like pulling, pushing data from and too various servers.  ? Tested and evaluated results for inclusion into software product.  ? Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis using R Studio  ? Automating Email Process, Downloading and uploading the files through Perl Scripting.  ? Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met  ? Used Machine learning techniques like unsupervised Classification, optimization and prediction.  ? Worked on Python open stack API's  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package  ? Associated with working cloud computing platforms like open stack.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL  ? Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  Environment: Python 2.7,.NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX, Windows, and Python libraries Python Developer Trimble, Inc - Westminster, CO November 2014 to October 2017 Responsibilities    ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations, data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  ? Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes.  ? Developed Python based API (Restful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  ? Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands.  ? Created a Python /Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  ? Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Built client pages using HTML, JSP, XML to interact with users, and the business logic is implemented using Servlets and Java Beans.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Publish and Consume Contract First SOAP web services using spring & Restful Web services using Jersey.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Worked on JMS components for asynchronous messaging.  ? Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading.  ? Implemented code MVC2 framework using JSP's JavaBeans & Servlets.  ? Utilized Python libraries Numpy, Twisted and Matpoltlib.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Worked on various environment Python, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, git, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts.  ? Installed Workstation, Bootstrapped Nodes, Wrote Recipes and Cookbooks and uploaded them to Chef-server, Managed On-site OS/Applications/Services/ Packages using Chef as well as AWS for EC2/S3&ELB with Chef Cookbooks.  ? Creating Cloud Formation templates in JSON format and deploy stack of AWS resources like EC2 instances, get code from S3 and deploy it, creation of security group and so on, as defined in the template.  ? Developing and testing cookbooks, keeping the chef repository synchronized with the version control system.  ? Implemented Chef Recipes for Deployment on build on internal Data Centre Servers. Also, re-used and modified same Chef Recipes to create a Deployment directly into Amazon EC2 instances.  ? Configuring organizational policy including defining the roles and environments and ensuring that the critical data is stored in the data bags.  ? Used Python Boto3 to write scripts to automate launch, starting and stopping of EC2 instances and taking snapshots of the servers.  ? Also used python scripts for security purposes, AWS IAM, AWS lambda functions and deploying the applications through elastic beanstalk.  ? Used GO scripts for uploading a file to S3 and deploying them and creating GO serverless application and deploying it to AWS lambda.  ? Work with development leadership to create project roadmaps  ? Develop estimates for your own assigned work and complete assigned software development, testing and/or maintenance tasks  ? Establish network management information systems including monitoring, alerting, and visual dashboards  ? Work with other software designers to develop a "plug and play" framework for hardware compatibility  ? Participate with the IBM Technical account manager in performing joint account planning  ? Take a hands-on approach while participating in all phases of the development process (Agile) with a constant focus on improving process and the overall quality  ? Develop, coordinate and execute product lifecycles  ? Used Apache Tomcat web server to handle HTTP request and deploy Java Servlets and JSP's.  Environment: Python, Django, RESTful, Linux, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MySQL, Shell, JIRA, CVS. Python Developer Nuspire Networks - Walled Lake, MI May 2011 to October 2014 Responsibilities  ? Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  ? Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling and Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python and Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework and Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  ? Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in Postgre SQL.  Environment: Python 2.7, RabbitMQ, FORTAN, XML, WSDL, Flask, Django, Pandas, MySQL, CSS, HTML, Jenkins, Google App Engine. Python Developer Whole Foods - Austin, TX June 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities  ? Developing, modifying, fixing, reviewing, testing and migrating theJava, JSP, XML, Servlet, SQLs, JSF, Spring and hibernate programs.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like Singleton, command, Factory, Business Delegate, Session façade, Service locator, Transfer object and view object for developing enterprise application.  ? Used multithreading concepts while creating DAO classes. Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  ? Worked on creating various documents that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  ? Developing Responsive Design UI Rich Rest Service Applications, Single Page Applications and HTML Wireframes using HTML4 Grid Structures/Layouts, CSS3 Media Queries, Ajax, Angular JS and Bootstrap.  ? Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  ? Used SOAP UI to test the web services, created cases SOAP UI test and worked on SOAP composite projects.  ? Involved in the development of business module applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, Struts, JDBC and ODBC.  ? Involved in web designing using HTML 4, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JQuery, JavaScript extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  ? Involved in the development using Spring Model View Controller (MVC) with Data access/integration layer consists ORM module.  ? Designing classes using design pattern methodologies such as Singleton, Service Locator, and DAO factory and session façade patterns. Involved in Performance tuning  ? Created tables, complex join queries, stored procedures, views, Types, triggers and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL developer.  ? Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Oracle 11g, Unified Modeling Language(UML), XML, Web services, SOAP, Angular JS, JUnit, RAD, CSS, HTML, DHTML, XSL, XSLT and MySQL. Sr. Python  Developer Atlanta, GA Education Bachelor's Atlanta, GA