Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Wells Fargo Philadelphia, PA • Over 8 years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery & Angular Js.  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework. Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Well aware of SDLC, Waterfall, Test-driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum Methodologies.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modelling Language (UML).  • Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML and strong knowledge in frameworks Iron Python, Cpython.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Good knowledge of .NET Framework features including Namespace, Inheritance, and Delegates.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used Python, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Openstack.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding.  • Experience in analysing and handling large database using Oracle Relational data Architecture.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum), involved in daily stand-up meetings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Wells Fargo - Minneapolis, MN January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Build React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Working on AWS services (S3, EC2) and deployment services (Lambda) and RDS, DynamoDB(NoSQL), Beanstalk, SQSand Jenkins CICD.  • Refactored messaging and storage implementation in loan originator service to use AWS SQS and S3  • Developed corresponding ETL jobs, batches and automated real-time data load.  • Created a backend server with Python Flask that implemented routing for indexing & showing page, and receiving the video & info data sent from the user  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller, which Isolate scopes perform operations.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Created JIRA Work flows for multiple projects as per business needs.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Bulk data/issues import into JIRA using CSV file templates.  • Was involved in REST client testing as part of this project  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, Flask, Couchbase, Lambda, Python SDK, PyQt, Java, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, React, Jira, Apache Web Server, Linux. Sr. Python Developer U.S Bridge - Cambridge, OH June 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Experienced Python on LINUX for execution.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Web pages on the internet are generated by servers running LINUX.  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects/POJO to hold values between java classes and database fields.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked PHP as a server side scripting language, for web pages.  • Worked on scripts (granite reference data scripts) for setting up adapter attributes in granite system.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Coded Java Script for page functionality and Lightbox plugins using JQUERY.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML Web Services.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Designed and implemented Sandra NoSQL database read/write/search function.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Prepare Scripts in Python and Shell for Automation of administration tasks.  • Maintain PL/SQL objects like packages, triggers, procedures etc.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, MySQL, JavaScript, Git, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, JAVA, PHP. Python Developer MatterPort - Mountain View, CA September 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with offshore teams and internal clients to Design and analyze the req of in-house applications.  • Thorough use of third-party packages, such as Fabric, Django based CMS - Mezzanine and Django-widgy  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Django.  • Deployed the application on cloud using AWS.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Used SOAP and RESTful API for information extraction  • Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  • Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization/debug at the depl site.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Mezzanine, MySQL, Amazon EC2, Amazon SQS, S3, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Application Developer Marshall University - Huntington, WV February 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities: Application Development, Data Analysis  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.  • Developed user interface solutions using a Django web framework. Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs, and Views utilizing Python technologies to build web based applications.  • Developed interfaces using JavaScript, HTML technologies for several web applications to fetch and graphically present required data from database.  • Involved in the complete Software Development life cycle (SDLC) to develop application.  • Developed user interface of the web application using HTML, CSS3, and Bootstrap. Wrote custom user defined functions in JavaScript to validate application functionalities/features.  • Responsible for writing OOP code in Python for server side scripting.  • Wrote code to support model-view-controller (MVC) pattern of Python Django framework in developing several modules for the application.    Environments: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL, Agile methodology, SQL programming, Tableau, Python programming, and R Programming. Data Stage ETL Analyst Motorola - Schaumburg, IL October 2010 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed/wrote the tech specs (Source-Target mappings) for the ETL mappings along with the Unit Test scripts.  • Involved in migration of DataStage projects and jobs from earlier versions to IBM InfoSphere 8.0.1 version.  • Used AutoSys to schedule jobs and e-mailed the status of ETL jobs to operations team daily.  • Used IBM InfoSphere Federation Server to incorporate data from multiple data sources into reports and analytics with a single query.  • Used Director Client to validate, run, schedule and monitor the jobs that are run by IBM InfoSphere DataStage server.  • Used DataStage Designer to develop parallel jobs to extract, cleanse, transform, integrate and load data into Data Warehouse.  • Used DataStage Director to schedule, monitor and analyze DataStage jobs.  • Developed jobs in Ascential Parallel Extender PX using different Stages like Transformer, Aggregator, Lookup, Join, Merge, Modify, Remove Duplicate, Oracle Stage, Sort, Peek, Row Generator, Column Generator, Sequential File and Data Set.  • Designed DataStage sequences to specify Job execution order. Loaded data into staging area and then into Data Marts.  • Worked as a DataStage administrator to perform routine administrative roles.  • Imported and exported Repositories across DataStage projects using DataStage Manager  • Unit tested DataStage Jobs in development including creating the appropriate test data.    Environment: IBM InfoSphere 8.0.1(Latest version of DataStage), Ascential DataStage7.5.2, Erwin, Oracle11g, DB2, PL/SQL, Toad, Solaris and Windows XP, AutoSys Data Warehouse Consultant Bharat Petroleum Corporate - IN June 2009 to September 2010 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, conceptualized/designed the database that serves the purpose of providing critical business metrics.  • Developed ETL procedures to ensure conformity, compliance with standards and lack of redundancy, translates business rules and functionality requirements into ETL procedures using Informatica -PowerMart.  • Worked with ERwin tool in Data Modeling (both Physical and Logical Design).  • Developed and documented data Mappings/Transformations, Audit procedures andInformatica sessions.  • Assisted in the design and Maintenance of the Metadata environment.  • Developed and tested all the backend programs, Informatica mappings and update processes.  • Effectively managed the migration of the transformations/mappings from development to Production.  • Developed various bulkload and update procedures and processes using SQL * Loader and PL/SQL.  • Involved in the error checking and testing of the ETL procedures and programs of Informatica session log.    Environment: IBM Info Sphere 8.0.1(Latest version of Data Stage), Ascential DataStage7.5.2, Erwin, Oracle11g, DB2, PL/SQL, Toad, Solaris and Windows XP, AutoSys Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (5 years), Django (5 years), JQUERY. (4 years), Python (5 years), SQL (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Frameworks Django, Zope, PyJamas, Jython, CSS Bootstrap  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS.  Programming Languages Python, C, PERL, SQL and PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JNDI, JDBC and JMS.  Version Control SVN, CVS, Git, GitHub.  Analytic Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL  Application servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss  Databases Oracle (9i,10g, 11g), My SQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB  IDE's/ Development Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio and Sublime Text.  Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2  Testing Tools Bugzilla and JIRA.