Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Cox Automotive North Hillsdale, NY • Extensive 9+ years of experiencein design, development, testing and implementation of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software using various technologies, analysing complex business requirements and mapping them to system specifications.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Controller architecture using Django web application framework  • Design and implement large scale business critical systems.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.6/3.4, Django 1.11/1.9  • Develop web applications,RESTful web services andAPIs using Django.  • Experience in implementing server side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns inDjango framework.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, Spyder.  • Implement different python libraries Beautiful Soup, matplotlib, numpy, scipy, pytables, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, Pyvmomi, Fabric and urllib2 in various tasks.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Experience on Web development using HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON by following W3C standards.  • Most of the applications were developed with Python, Django, and PostgreSQL using AgileMethodology.  • Good Experience in debugging the issues using pdb.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java API, Swing, HTML 4/5, Flex, JavaScript, CSS2/3, JQuery, JDBC, JSF, JMS, XML.  • Leveraging queueing architectures with Rabbit MQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Worked on Python Testing frameworks like zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test driven development methodologies.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views and triggers.    TECHNICAL CREDENTIALS    Primary Languages Python, Java, C.  Frameworks Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, Angular.Js.  Database Sqlite3, MSSQL, MySQL, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g  IDE's PyCharm, NetBeans, Eclipse, MS Visual Studio  Servers & Webserver Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic, XAMPP, Apache HTTP webserver, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and ApacheTomcat  Deployment tools MS Azure, Heroku, Chef, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES) , Jenkins  Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, CSS, DHTML, XML, JSON, Java Script, Ajax , JQuery Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer Cox Automotive - North Hills, NY September 2018 to Present Description: Cox Automotive have their hands firmly on the pulse of the automotive industry, with unmatched expertise in vehicle remarketing services, and digital and software solutions for automotivee dealers. Company delivered inspired results to bridge the gap between consumers, manufacturers, dealers and lenders at every stage of the automotive experience.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Analysed and gathered business requirements specifications by interacting with product owner and understanding business requirement specification documents.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Material CSS and Bootstrap.  • Developed Views using Django's view for the Web application.  • Developed the keyboard signature by using HTML Canvas element and JavaScript.  • Developed RESTful services using DRF.  • Worked with WEB API's to make calls to the web services using URLs, which would perform GET,PUT, POST and DELETE operations on the server.  • Implemented mashup layer in the Django application for the orchestration of restful service calls and core logic for consuming the services.  • Exposed and consumed restful API's through API connect.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Used Charles tool to rewrite the API response, which helps for the parallel development and testing process.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of the project.  • Written alembic scripts to make changes to the database  • Worked with mongo dB to create documents or packages for various context.  • Worked with docker to setup the environment for the development.    Environment: Python 2.7,3.6Django 1.9, Oracle, MySQL,Git, Linux, Macos, JSON, JQuery, HTML, XML, CSS, AJAX, REST, Rally, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJs, Material CSS,API connect,Charles, Docker, Agile, GitHub, PyUnit, PyCharm, SQL Developer, Robo3T, Jenkins,MOCK, Mongo DB, Docker, Redis, PyTest. Senior Python Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA October 2017 to August 2018 Description: Cisco is an American multinational technology that develops, manufactures, and sells networking hardware, telecommunications equipment, and other high-technology services and products. The main goal of the project is to report IT, security, mobility problems faced by the customers and suggest solutions to them. We developed a website for reporting issues and finding solutions to that problems easily.    Responsibilities:  • Analysed the requirements and designed the flow of task using flow charts and designed flow between pages of the UI.  • Documented the design solutions and created stories for client requirements.  • Written REST services using python and Apollo (internal to Cisco).  • Written Python Scripts to establish continuous workflows from different teams providing data.  • Written unit and integration tests in python to test the code.  • Implemented LDAP authentication to authenticate and authorize the Customers using python Rest Services.  • Generated client certificates in both pem and pfx formats using M2Crypto python module.  • Used SQLite3 database for caching the client requests.  • Written LDAP search filters for both single level and multilevel.  • Completed UI development using AngularJS, CSS and HTML5.  • Dashboards with quick filters, parameters and sets to handle views more efficiently.  • Performed user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Efficient delivered code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Participated with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  • Used Rally for Agile software management.  • Primary contact for all issues in both development and production environments.  • Implemented the Long term fix for incidents that are happened in production environment by finding the root cause.  • Completed the cisco white belt in security, which helps to develop the applications in a secured manner to protect from the threats.    Environment: Python 2.7, Cassandra, MySQL, LDAP, Git, Linux, Windows, JSON, JQuery, HTML, XML,CSS, REST, Rally, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJs, Agile, Bitbucket, PyUnit,PyCharm, Microsoft SQL server management studio, DataStaxDevCenter, Apache Directory Studio, Redis ,Ansible, Jenkins, MatPlotLib, MOCK, Beautiful Soup, PyTest. Senior Python Developer Walmart - Arkansas, AR, US June 2015 to August 2017 US    Description: Wal-Mart Stores, Inc, is engaged in the operation of retail, wholesale and other units in various formats around the world. The Company offers an assortment of merchandise and services at everyday low prices (EDLP). The Company operates through three segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club. The Walmart U.S. segment includes the Company's mass merchant concept in the United States operating under the Walmart or Wal-Mart brands, as well as digital retail. The Walmart International segment consists of the Company's operations outside of the United States, including various retail Websites. The Sam's Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States, as well as samsclub.com.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Developed Views and Templates using Django's view controller and template language for the Web application.  • Developed custom directives (elements, Attributes and classes) using Javascript and angular.js.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Developed a web application for developers to generate their own REST API calls in, JAVA, and Python.  • Developed Application to access JSON from Restful Web Service from consumer side using JavaScript.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Worked with WEB API's to make calls to the web services using URLs, which would perform GET, PUT, POST and DELETE operations on the server.  • Created stored procedure, trigger on the database to provide/insert specific data from multiple tables for Web API services.  • Written code to support model-view-controller (MVC) pattern of Python Django framework in developing several modules for the application.  • Set up Unix server to support a TCP/IP local net of windows XP clients.  • Written microservice to turn our main app into a SAML Service Provider so authentication could be handled by our clients systems.    Environment: Python 3.6, Django 1.11, MySQL, PyCharm, Git, ElasticSearch, Flask,Web2Py, Linux, Windows, JSON, JQuery, HTML, XML,CSS, REST, JIRA, Bootstrap, AJAX, AWS, JavaScript, MOCK, Beautiful Soup, Wireshark, Flash, URLlib2, Agile, GitHub, PyUnit, SQLAlchemy, Ansible, Tableau, SQL Developer, Robot, Jenkins, Chef, MatPlotLib, PyTest, PyChecker, Selenium. Senior Python Developer Leap Frog - Dallas, TX March 2014 to May 2015 Description: Leap Frog is an educational entertainment company. Leapfrog designs, develops, and markets technology-based learning products and related content for the education of children from infancy through grade school.    Responsibilities:  • Full Stack developer, created a custom CMS built using Django, AWS (Amazon web service), REST, Json with JavaScript++, JQuery, AJAX components, worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS.  • Maintained using PHP/MySQL.  • Used AWstat and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  • Started developing with Python sdk, Django, C++and currently developing with Django.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used django_evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Worked using AJAX with jQuery  • Worked closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from.  • Imported SSL certs from other hosts to new host and properly configured Apache to use certs.  Used Apache .htaccess to provide authentication system for PHP/MySQL sites.  • Used mod_rewrite to create SEO friendly links.  • Created complex dynamic HTML UI using jQuery.  • Deployed internal wiki (PHP dokowiki) and ticketing system (Zope - Python, IssueTrackerProduct) to help document and manage tasks.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.9, PyCharm, JAVA, Beautiful Soup, PyTest, PyQt, Apache Cassandra, HTML5, DOM, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, SQLite, PyQuery, JavaScript, MySQL, FTPlib, Mongo DB, PostgreSQL, Puppet, Jenkins, Panda, XML, SQLAlchemy, T-SQL,REST, Linux, GIT, GitHub. Senior Python Developer Tivo - San Jose, CA 2012 to February 2014 Description: TiVo Inc. is a global leader in next-generation television services. With global headquarters in San Jose, CA and offices in New York, NY, Durham, NC, and Warsaw, Poland, TiVo's innovative cloud-based Software-as-a-Service solutions enable viewers to consume content across multiple screens in and out-of-the home. The TiVo solution provides an all-in-one approach for navigating the 'content chaos' by seamlessly combining live, recorded, on-demand and over-the-top television into one intuitive user interface with simple universal search, discovery, viewing and recording from a variety of devices, creatingthe ultimate viewing experience.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Written backend programming in Python and used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed RESTful services using Django.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Created invitation flow for customers to use the client portal for monitoring applications.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • For the large data management used TFS and delivered reliable end product.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and beautiful soup (b4) to perform unit testing.  • Worked on translation of web pages to different languages as per client requirements.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service etc.  • Collaborated with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Deployed using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.    Environment: Python 3.4, 2.7, Java 1.7, Django 1.9/1.7, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet, Postgre SQL, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Elastic search, T-SQL, Beautiful soup, TFS, nose, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux. Python Developer Currylicious - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2011 to May 2012 Description: CRMS(Currylicious restaurant management system) is a Chain of Restaurants Management System. This system is designed to manage multiple outlets at multiple locations. It is divided into several Modules which enable the user to maintain their business efficiently.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and gathered business requirements specifications by interacting with client and understanding business requirement specification documents.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.  • Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Skilled in collections and used for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Installed, configured, and managed the AWS server.  • Developed API using node.js, express JS and Mongoose.  • Built prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification services using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.  • Worked on generating various dashboard in Tableau Server using different data source systems like flat files, Excel, Oracle and SQL server.  • Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing JQuery, Node.js.  • Modularized front end CSS and JS code with Sass. Built areal time mouse/click user analytics web service with Node.js.  • Revived the brand by incorporating identity to all digital marketing platforms.  • Integrated traditional marketing and digital marketing initiatives.  • Instrumental in opening new global markets and dealers with global marketing initiatives.  • Increased customer post purchase interaction with the creation of a digital post purchase program complete with analytics and measurable.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT. Python Developer Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd,Haryana, IND April 2009 to May 2011 Description: AR Wonders provides trusted, reliable and cost-effective outsourced software development and support services to small and mid-size companies. Clients ranges from well-known companies to early-stage ventures developing citting-edge technology products.    Responsibilities:  • Designed the HTML bsed web pages for displaying the reports.  • Development in Python, SQL in Linux OS/Windows OS.  • Statistics, algorithms, datastructures, relationaldatabases, SQLprogramming (MySQL, MYSQLDB).  • Managed Big Data.  • Developed the dynamic content of presentation layer using JSP.  • Developed the JSP as the view, Servlets as Controller and EJB as model in the Struts Frameworks.  • Worked closely with marketing team to create respective test cases and algorithms for efficient work flow.  • Tested HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP to present client side GUI.  • Involved in testing of Javaascript code for Client Side Validation.  • Worked on web logic application server to display JSP and EJB applications.    Environment: Python 2.7, Linux/Windows OS, MYSQL, pymysqldb, HTML, CSS, Javascript. Education Bachelor's Skills Apache (4 years), frame works (2 years), Jira (2 years), Linux (10+ years), testing (5 years) Additional Information Operating Systems Windows, Mac, Red hat Linux  Servers & Webserver Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss, WebLogic, XAMPP, Apache HTTP webserver, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and ApacheTomcat  SDLC Methods Waterfall, SCRUM, Agile  Testing Frameworks Junit, TestNG, ROBOT, JXL, Jtest, Jasmine  Bug Tracking Tools Rally, JIRA  Version Controls BitBucket, SVN, Github