Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Dow Jones Market Columbus, OH • Over 9+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Java.  • Expert knowledge and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, Eclipse, Emacs.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Strong knowledge in Distributed Systems and Client/ Server Architecture.  • Hands on Experience in working with the Cassandra Query Language (CQL) for querying the data present in the Cassandra.  • Created video publishing toolkit using WordPress (PHP/MySQL) and JavaScript to allow easy uploading of video by non-technical content mangers.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Dow Jones Market - New York, NY May 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes.  • Supported/maintained client website within the DJANGO CMS system for various website needs.  • Performed dynamic UI designing with HTML5, CSS3, less, BootstrapJs, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON and AJAX.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Implementation of fully API based SSO architecture using CA SiteMinder, CA IDM, PingFederate, and Radiant Logic Virtual Directory Server which accomplishes end applications integration with SSO easier.  • Led the development of parsers for handling JSON, XML responses and JAXB binding and worked with JMS (java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed a Django CMS based promotion management system offering the ability to created arbitrary forms through an admin interface.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript and Bootstrap, connecting to a RESTful server on a different domain.  • Developed numerous websites ranging from large university sites to small marketing microsites with django CMS. Some being both multi-site and multi-lingual.  • Administered existing Single Sign On(SSO) and SAML applications implemented through SiteMinder.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making use of Python matplotlib library.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-ful server on a different domain.  • Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands and used Custom Node.JS proxy to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete and to proxy.    Environment: Python, Django, Django-cms, SSO, database access, Django-cms plugins, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Agile. Sr. Python Developer Sovereign Bancorp Mortgage - Boston, MA September 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Mainly used Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network.  • Developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python. Designed test cases and authored test plans.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Python with OpenStack, OpenERP (now ODOO), SQL Alchemy, DJango CMS etc.  • Provide team guidance from agile experience/learning and day-to-day support to the scrum team.  • Configured SiteMinder web agents, Affiliate agents and RADIUS agents to provide federation of web services in the SSO environment.  • Developed website based on Django CMS.  • Developing dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery & D3JS.  • Created and populated digital brochures using PageTurnPro and built photo galleries on website in the Django CMS and also using Django CMS plugin.  • Configuring SSO for different applications in different domains with Cookie Provider and troubleshooting issues related to them.  • Maintenance and development of a high-traffic and -demand site and platform running on a custom-rolled Django CMS.  • Managing content population and deployments through Django CMS.  • Experience in designing and developing interactive User Interfaces, usability, web and client/server applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Installing new WebAgents on Unix Apache servers and Windows IIS servers for implementing SSO for new applications.  • Experience using Content Management Systems: WordPress and Django CMS plugins.  • Expertise in client scripting language and serve scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON and Bootstrap.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications. Unit testing with JavaScript and node.js.  • Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed and tested HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js that meets accessibility and web browser standards for car dealerships websites.    Environment: Python, Django, Django-cms, SSO, database access, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Agile, MAVEN Sr. Python Developer Costco - San Diego, CA September 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML/CSS. Also involved in the analysis and design of application.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django and created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Worked in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe and added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests and created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components. Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Goggle Web Toolkit (UI) and business tier    Environment: Python , Django, HTML/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3. Python Developer First Flight - Santa Ana, CA September 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined Function.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Used JQuery for all client side JavaScript manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services    Environment: Python JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Developer Pay U Dollar - San Jose, CA February 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Configurable Data source and Data model, Data Model can be defined in XML.  • Involved in coding reviews and enhancement of application.  • Involved in using XML for developing tool for user interface customization.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for source code and version control (VSS), Involved in integration and deployment.  • Developing the application as per the requirements.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Developed various components of the application and unit test them.  • Written SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment: Python, Django, Mod_ python, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, MySQL server, GIT, Reports, ShellScripts, Linux. Software Engineer GEMSOFT Tech Solutions - Atlanta, GA March 2009 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • An e Commerce company (HQ in California, US) providing services in multiple disciplines, like - Online Shopping Cart  • Development, Online Promotion, Price Comparison Shopping, SEO, Customer & Technical Support through - Chat, Email and Voice.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements  gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Responsible for entire data migration from Sybase ASE server to Oracle  • Migration of API code written for Sybase to Oracle.  • Overlook the migration activity of PL/SQL programs  • Migration of the PL/SQL code from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's  • Automation of testing using Python.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.    Environment: Python 2.7, Shell scripting, PL/SQL, SVN, Quality Center, Solaris, Windows, Perl. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Loyola University Skills Visual studio, C++, Django, Html, Javascript