Python and Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> and Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python and Django Developer - CrovySoft Naples, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python and Django Developer CrovySoft 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed front-end and back-end of the application using python 3 on Django  web framework.  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  ? Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users.  ? Worked in MySQL and PostgreSQL databases on queries.  ? Build Class Based Views in Django for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Managed Ubuntu Linux on AWS EC2.  ? Migrated the applications from internal data centre to AWS.  ? Implemented API for mobile applications with Django rest framework. Use of user  authentication and tokens to track and keep logged user through the application.  ? Implemented request to external APIs like: twilio, google map.  ? Experience using Git for version control.  ? Implemented Docker containers and deploy to the server.  ? Bootstrap implemented for front end.  ? Experience in Scrum as agile software development methodology.  ? Experience with React Native for Android and iOS Mobile Applications and consuming data from API implemented using authentication and token.    Environment: Python, Django, Ubuntu, Docker, PostgreSQL, Django Rest Framework, Google Map, Google API, Amazon Web Service (AWS+EC2+S3+SES), Bootstrap,  JQuery, CSS, HTML, Sendgrid, PIP, Virtualenv, Gunicorn, Supervisor, Nginx, React  Native. Python and Django Developer NetwarMonitor Jalisco - MX October 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Developed front-end and back-end of the application using python on Django web  framework.  ? Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users.  ? Worked in MySQL databases on queries.  ? Project consulting with team members.  ? Build Class Based Views in Django for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Experience using Git for version control.  ? Bootstrap implemented for front end.  ? Experience in Scrum as agile software development methodology.    Environment: Python, Django, Ubuntu, OSx, MySQL, Bootstrap, JQuery, CSS, HTML, PIP, Virtualenv.    June 25, 2019 1-3 Developer Netcommerce Jalisco - MX September 2009 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Designed the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  ? Worked in MySQL database, designed database diagram.  ? Experience in CMMI SVC L2.  ? Experience in Scrum as agile software development methodology.  ? Worked making themes for Wordpress, Joomla and Vivvo.  ? Worked making plugins for Wordpress.  ? Integrated Facebook API, Twitter API, Google Maps API, Yahoo Weather.  ? Django app structure, custom template filters, middleware and class based views.  ? Experience in working with JSON and integrations with Fusion Chart.  ? Experience in working with different operating systems UNIX.    Environment: PHP, Mysql, AJAX, Wordpress, Joomla, Liferay, Vivvo, CSS, Jquery, Facebook, Twitter, Python, Django, Ubuntu, Fusion Chart. Freelance Cuba 2008 to 2013 PHP Developer    Responsibilities:  ? Designed the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  ? Worked in MySQL database, designed database diagram.  ? Backend with PHP.  ? Worked making themes for Wordpress.  ? Worked making plugins for Wordpress.  ? Integrated Facebook API, Google Maps API.  ? Experience in working with different operating systems UNIX.    Environment: PHP, Mysql, AJAX, Wordpress, CSS, Jquery, Facebook, Ubuntu    June 25, 2019 2-3 PHP Developer Dominio Mundo Mexico 2012 to 2012 Freelance.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  ? Worked in MySQL database, designed database diagram.  ? Backend with PHP.  ? Worked making themes for Wordpress.  ? Worked making plugins for Wordpress.  ? Integrated Facebook API, Google Maps API.  ? Experience in working with different operating systems UNIX.    Environment: PHP, Mysql, AJAX, Wordpress, CSS, Jquery, Facebook, Ubuntu. PHP Developer Upstream Connections United Kingdom 2008 to 2008 Responsibilities:  ? Designed the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  ? Worked in MySQL database, designed database diagram.  ? Backend with PHP.  ? Worked making themes for Wordpress.  ? Worked making plugins for Wordpress.  ? Integrated Facebook API, Google Maps API.  ? Experience in working with different operating systems UNIX.    Environment: PHP, Mysql, AJAX, Wordpress, CSS, Jquery, Facebook, Ubuntu Education Bachelor Degree in Software Engineer in Software Engineer Oscar Lucero Moya University 2005 to 2011 Skills Python (3 years), MySQL (5 years), Django (3 years), PostgreSQL (2 years), Debian (2 years), Ubuntu (2 years), Docker (1 year), Django rest framework (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/damian-a-perez http://github.com/damianpv