Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Westchester County White Plains, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python developer Westchester County - White Plains, NY May 2017 to Present • Working in various stage of software development life cycle includes requirements, analysis, design, development, deployment and testing of an application for business outputs.   • Working in Agile software development- a framework that delivers customer collaboration and interaction with processes and tools.   • Working on of web application development and deployment. - UI experience, security, logging, backend services.   • Writing backend programming in FLASK  • Created RESTful services to interact with UI.   • Designed front -end screens with Python and JavaScript.   • Involved in designing application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python using Flask REST framework.  • Working in UNIX environment in developing the application and familiar with all of its commands.  • Working on developing web pages using AJAX, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, and XML.  • Used NLTK to work on large amount of data and build our comparison dataset.  • Detected the near-duplicated data by applying NLP methods  • Used much Regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Working on Server Side validations using REGEX and for the frontend response by using Javascript, Ajax, Json.  • Used AJAX to modify small portions of the web pages by sending a request to the server avoiding the need of reloading the entire web page and also for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.   • Built a query framework which allows self-defined queries on database using SQLALCHEMY.  • Working on various Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Anaconda Spyder.  • Installed numerous Python packages using pip3.  • Very good understanding of Python requests module and HTTP requests, response Jr. Python developer Wellsfargo - SFO,CA June 2016 to March 2017 • Clear understanding of the entire project life cycle including Analysis, Design, and Development.   • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.   • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.   • Developed Object Oriented Python application and JavaScript.   • Designed different front end forms using HTML and CSS.   • Designed applications in AJAX with rich user interfaces. Software Developer CGI - Hyderabad, INDIA September 2013 to March 2014 • Developed frontend layout and intro for home page using Fireworks.   • Utilized the mail merge techniques in MS Word for the time reduction in sending certificates.   • Used JavaScript, JQuery for user interactions in pages.   • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL   • Web Application developed using Web Technologies 2.0.   • Interactive Planning for the product development.   • Used Flash Animations and Storyboard & User Flows for e-learning tutorials using human factor engineering design concepts.   • Performed unit testing Education Masters in Information Technology Management. in Information Technology Management. Campbellsville University - Louisville, KY May 2017 to December 2018 Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Northwestern Polytechnic University August 2014 to April 2016 Bachelor of Information Technology in Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technology University June 2010 to May 2014 Skills AJAX (2 years), CSS (2 years), JavaScript. (2 years), MYSQL. (1 year), Python (2 years), sqlalchemy (Less than 1 year), Linux (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies: HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Node JS, AJAX, Web Services (SOAP, REST API's), JSON  Languages: Python, C /C++, Java.  Frameworks: Flask, Angular JS, Node JS  Database: SQL, MySQL, Oracle  Software methodologies: Agile, Waterfall  Tools: Sublime Text, Net Beans, Eclipse, GIT