Lead Python Developer Lead <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer with Perl, front and backend experience San Francisco, CA ? Fullstack Web Application Developer currently focussing on python/django etc after a successful career in the Adobe Flex/Flash/Actionscript frontend environment.  ? Understanding of object-oriented design and analysis and design patterns.  ? Completed 3-month Rocket-U coder bootcamp (angular/ python/django/django rest framework) in 2015 (also have CS degree from Rutgers University)  ? Sun Certified Java Programmer (2003)  ? A quick study. Excellent technical problem solving and interpersonal skills.  ? Proven tech teaching skills (effective at teaching specific tech skills and translating complex tech problems and issues into understandable terms for lay people)  ? Seasoned artistic and visual design sensibility. I'm also well-versed with digital photo processing techniques. I grew up in a family of professionally established artists. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Python Developer Wells Fargo - San Leandro, CA March 2019 to Present • Wrote multithreaded engine for a document security project contract.  • Wrote a report generator  • Wrote code to automate sftp transfers between multiple Wells Fargo teams.  • Used threading, multiprocessing, openpyxl, xleditor, subprocess, pandas, python modules Python Developer Walton and Twu January 2016 to February 2019 • I served as a lead python developer. I created an application that analyzes email headers and finds proxy servers between a link on target URLs and their landing page. These results were stored in a mysql database where CRUD functionality was implemented in Django.  • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML)  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model Python Developer Accenture May 2015 to January 2016 • Worked on a development creating a call center / medical advice application for Kaiser Permanente.  • Completed Kaiser HIPAA privacy and security compliance training.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface  • Worked with MySQL databases, Apache Web server. Flex Developer Convention Resource Management - San Francisco, CA February 2013 to February 2013 • Sole Adobe Flex developer in charge of maintenance and debugging and extending the functionality of five Flex programs convention management programs simultaneously.  • Advocated for and implemented the use the version control system, Git for my project. All development in the company subsequently moved to Git. Flex Developer Presidio Health - San Francisco, CA June 2012 to February 2013 • Worked on a short term project creating several Flex 4 screens for a medical coding application based on an existing Flex 3 layout.  • Used GraniteDS/Tide Data Service Framework Flex Developer Contractor Infostretch September 2012 to October 2012 Santa Clara  • Worked on a short term project for Infostretch client, Sabre Systems, converting an airline reservation site to right-to-left format for Arabic language users. Lead Flex Developer Outbid.com April 2011 to September 2012 Oakland  • Responsible for a multi-user networked Flash and Flex 3/4 Cairngorm-based web application for a real-time auction complete with voice conferencing functionality.  • Converted a Flash chatbox to a Flex 4.5 component.  • Optimized existing Flex 3 code where and when possible.  • Rewrote functionality for integration of Vivox voice api  • Upgraded existing Maven Flex Mojo plugin in our build environment from Flex 3 to Flex 4.5.1  • Worked on many bug fixes and improvements.  • Worked with custom-build performance testing application and a custom-build java auction server.  • As employee # 3 and sole Flex developer, instructed management about issues, limitation and complexities of the existing Flex code that our company inherited while striving to make their requests a reality. Flex Developer Level Studios - San Francisco, CA February 2011 to March 2011 Traveled out of state to Level Studio's client site.  ? Look and feel modification of a flex 4 front-end to network configuration and hardware monitoring software.  ? Created custom renderers for a set of 13 unique selectable items types in a datagrid .Created custom component to handle validation.  ? Created custom datagrid paging navigation component. Freelance Flex Developer Fluid Inc - San Francisco, CA July 2010 to August 2010 Part of a team of 3 Flex developers working on a Flex 4 / Adobe Air Kiosk Project.  ? Installed PQLabs Multi-touch touchscreen hardware.  ? Created a custom Adobe Air component that allowed multi-touch manipulation of groups of images which implemented the PQLabs Multi-touch API for all needed hand-gestures. 3 Developer - Nielsen Company Flex / Actionscript March 2010 to June 2010 Santa Clara  ? Part of a team of 4 Flex contractors whose goal it was to refactor the data-tier of an existing SOAP-based application from 50 WSDLs to 9 WSDLs.  ? Wrote a Flex 3 /Actionscript 3 framework to test and execute each web -ervice in isolation from the application.  ? In addition to Flex/Actionscript used SOAPUI, a WSDL- inspection technology, and Fiddler, a web proxy traffic inspector. Freelance Flash / Actionscript3 Developer CreativeLift - San Francisco, CA November 2009 to December 2009 Created various animated flash/actionscript apps for a client website. Including an interactive calendar, a custom scrolling image panel, an image slideshow and an xml-based "news ticker".  ? Used Flash CS4, the Flash Develop IDE and TweenMax Lead Flex / Cairngorm /Actionscript3 Developer True Anthem - San Francisco, CA May 2008 to November 2008 Lead Flex developer for True Anthem music and video player viral widget during two lifecycles.  ? Implemented video streaming functionality from Adobe FMS server on existing music widget.  ? Worked on a complete lifecycle of a Cairngorm framework / WebOrb based-version 2 widget, including implementing functionality for Myspace and Facebook banner-ad work-arounds, detailed UI event logging, worked with Tweener library.  ? Customized third-party Doug McCune container components.  ? Rehired to work on month-long project involving Flash/Javascript interaction. Web / RIA Developer The Law Firm of Walton & Roess LLP January 2008 to May 2008 Santa Clara  ? Worked on a site redesign featuring a multi-state, xml-driven, interactive Flex application that takes users through a multi-question decision tree regarding the legal services a user is inquiring about and returns to the user a stated fee or additional information.  ? Creating look and feel of new site. DB Architect / Software Engineer Cisco Systems March 2007 to June 2007 Santa Clara  ? Used Datanamic Dezign in a short term contract with a tight schedule to create an optimized (3rd normal) MySQL "target schema" for future redesign of an inventory control / order processing system for a hardware testing lab.  ? Refactored and merged two existing database schemas.  ? Verified integrity of existing data to move it to the new database schema.  ? Was only DB / programmer / software person in a group of hardware engineers. Web Application Engineer United Behavioral Healthcare - San Francisco, CA May 2006 to January 2007 Coded enhancements to a web-based perl / javascript (ajax) / sybase patient registration and monitoring application. Integrated a data-mining-based data stream to the application. Upgraded functionality from 1 to 50 customers (each with custom specifications). Wrote non-trival custom Teraterm macros to run automated data collection scripts.  ? Took over IT department responsibilities during my boss's 4 week trip to China. Solved problems with the most minimal outside resources in San Francisco office to assist me on issues or questions.  ? Oversaw a migration of above application to a new server system belonging to parent company. This included handling technical issues involved in the migration as well as working with entirely new IT department in Minnesota and policy culture.  ? Helped research, created demos and became "point man" for conversion of above application to Java Server Faces. Created Java Server Faces mock ups. Web Developer Ramirez Weber Lab - San Francisco State University - San Francisco, CA June 2005 to August 2005 San Francisco  ? Worked for Dr. Ramirez Weber at SFSU doing web app development for online hedgehog gene pathway database [ http://hedgehog.sfsu.edu ] using html, css, object-oriented javascript, mysql and perl.  ? Familiarized myself with major genetic databases and various bioinformatic analysis techniques. Java Web Application Developer Gene Ed - San Francisco, CA September 2003 to January 2004 Designed and developed JSP / PostgreSQL based content management framework used to inventory and traverse media objects in an object oriented hierarchy. Web application included object creation, deletion, editing and traversal features.  ? Created two JSP/PostgreSQL report generation web applications for Gene Ed clients.  ? Created a perl-based tool to assist in website integrity checking.  ? Provided consultation in linux system, postresql server and Jetty Web Server administration to sys admin tasked primarily with MS concerns.  ? Edited format of Wiki based weblog application Independent Consultant Timothy Walton Esq June 2001 to September 2003 Design, development and maintenance of websites for small businesses (part of design team for a JSP-based website redesign for a Marker7 client; created law firm site for Timothy Walton Esq, generated optimized Google adsense keywords for a shoes.com and vitacost.com reseller)  ? Taught DSP theory, audio software usage and music synthesis to 5 weekly students in Bay Area. Advanced Web Server Support Engineer, iPlanet Sun Microsystems December 2000 to June 2001 Santa Clara  ? Solved over 70 diagnostic cases involving the iPlanet web server; issues included performance tuning, servlet and cgi configuration, jvm configuration, SNMP, LDAP, and NSAPI plugins.  ? Wrote custom NSAPI patches in C; developed custom Perl tool. Java Developer ImagineMedia - San Francisco, CA June 2000 to October 2000 Designed intranet-based content access management system utilizing Java servlets and JavaScript that provided an interface to Oracle tables through a multi-tier design. Software Developer Lucidity - San Francisco, CA January 2000 to June 2000 Designed and created software that parsed apache and cfengine config files into logical units whose content was stored in Oracle  ? Created a web-based querying/editing and file re-creation interface in Perl and PHP for use in customer network provisioning system. Software Developer Emusic.com December 1998 to January 2000 Redwood City  ? Website server application development in mod Perl on Linux/ Unix using Apache Web Server.  ? Created a C++ and Perl Digital Signal Processing (DSP) program to find "loudest 30 seconds" of a .wav sound file and perform automated sampling in MySQL song file database. Integrated the program into Real Networks  ? Wrote numerous interactive intranet-based reporting programs using Oracle SQL and perl.    During College Career (Full time jobs): Software Developer Formal Systems - Princeton, NJ August 1997 to September 1998 Involved in initial customer specification meetings through testing to project completion of medical database project for Columbia Presbyterian Hospital.  ? Created a parser in Perl Win32 that parsed a compilation of data from various medical databases and formats and consolidated it into a single database. Created a web-based search and query interface for the resultant database.  ? Used Visual Basic 5.0, SQL and Active Server Pages to create a database-driven ActiveX control that launched various executable programs based on parameters passed to the control from an ASP SQL call. Created an ASP/SQL based web registration system. Created a Visual Basic Program that searched a text page against a list of words and created hyperlinks in the text on found words. Technical Assistant The Electronic Policy Network - Princeton, NJ March 1994 to September 1997 Princeton, NJ  ? HTML layout for the award-winning online public policy site founded by Pulitzer prize winner, Paul Starr and former Sec. of Labor, Robert Reich.  ? Created Perl program generator that generates unique online quizzes and Perl cgi reply scripts. Perl Developer Dept. Civ. Engineering, Princeton University - Princeton, NJ June 1997 to August 1997 Created an online registration program suite in Unix Perl for the hydrology sub-section of an American Meteorological Association Conference. (The AMA subsequently asked to use the program suite in all future conferences.) (Prof. Eric Wood) Technical Intern Poppe Tyson Interactive - New York, NY June 1996 to August 1996 Created html layout for several Poppe Tyson clients including T. Rowe Price, Bozell and World Yacht.  ? Created three Perl CGI programs that parsed a log file to provide statistics on most frequent addresses hits, most frequent reference links, most frequent keywords used to find site. Research Asst Woodrow Wilson School of Public Affairs, Princeton University - Princeton, NJ March 1994 to May 1994 Provided content strategy and technical research assistance in creating the portion of an undergraduate course on Technology and Public Policy that dealt with public policy and the Internet (and telecommunications in general). (Dr. Clinton Andrews). Education M.S. Computer Science in w/Conc San Francisco State University 2011 Advanced Multimedia Systems SFSU B.S. in Computer Science Rutgers University English/Psychology Guilford College guitar Westminster Choir College Conservatory Research Princeton University SFSU Research Group Project SFSU SFSU Project for Multimedia Systems SFSU Skills DECISION SUPPORT PANEL (3 years), Django. (3 years), DSP (3 years), mysql (5 years), perl (8 years), Javascript, CSS, Git Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming: Adobe Flex 3/4, Cairngorm Framework, ActionScript3, python, django, Java, J2EE servlet / JSP programming, angular, Perl, Oracle SQL, MySQL, PHP, WebOrb  Web: HTML5, XML, CSS3, Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator  Music / DSP: Music Recording/Editing/Processing Software, Adobe FMS server, Music Synthesis Techniques, and MIDI Programming    Operating Systems: Unix (and shell languages), Red Hat Linux, Windows 7, MacOSX