Database Developer Database <span class="hl">Developer</span> Database Developer - Phy Capital Investment, FL Wood-Ridge, NJ Work Experience Database Developer Phy Capital Investment, FL 2018 to Present Responsible for the data demands of this start-up hedge fund, from acquiring them from outside vendors like Bloomberg and Factset, processing, validating and loading them to databases and serving them up to various applications. Design tables, automate loading and data integrity checks and optimize retrieval queries. Set up a security reference framework for the universe of futures we traded, their tickers, exchanges, trading hours, roll dates, etc. Work with real-time financial tick data. Languages used are Bash, Python and C++. Databases are SQL Server, PostgreSQL and InfluxDB. Python Developer Quantopian Investment, FL 2016 to 2018 Researched and programmed quantitative trading models using Python.  Analyzed various trading strategies, developed and coded models and back-tested them. Databases used were MySQL and PostgreSQL. ETL Developer Citadel Investment Group - Chicago, IL 2003 to 2016 Responsible for the firm's ETL needs, from researching and acquiring data sources, cleaning and transforming the data as needed and loading them into databases. Developed, maintained and supported programs for smooth and timely delivery of data into the company.  Established vendor and other third-party relationships. Worked with the DBA in designing the tables and fine-tuning the procedures for accessing the data. Communicated with users regarding requirements and expectations.  Re-engineered multiple legacy systems to improve efficiency, maintainability, flexibility and ease of troubleshooting. Created a common code base with shareable modules so new applications can be added quickly and updates made at a single code point. The framework was simple to understand and easily adopted by other members of the team. It employed a common logging and data structure so programs could be easily debugged in case of failure.    Built an internal web application for users to easily retrieve company data. They would open a browser and entered the stock symbol, the start and end dates and the metrics they were interested in. The server will then returned them the data in a table or a file. The front-end was written in HTML and JavaScript while the back-end was written in python and SQL.    Scraped numerous web sites for data requested by the firm's fundamental investment analysts to gain insights into trends occurring in the companies they cover. Some examples are Ebay, Yahoo,  Amazon, Target, BestBuy, Walmart, GameStop and SEC. The parsed data were stored in our relational databases while the raw pages were stored in MongoDB.    Mentored junior programmers and helped users with any technical or programming issue and data retrieval using SQL.    Languages used were Python, Perl, C++, Bash, Java. Databases were Sybase, SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB. Education BS in Electrical Engineering/Computer Science Columbia School of Engineering - New York, NY MBA in Finance/Operations Research Columbia School of Business - New York, NY Skills C++, Django, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Json, Oop, Perl, Python, Matplotlib, Numpy, Svn, Vba, Xml, Ms access, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql