Tech Lead, Senior Python Developer Tech Lead, Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Tech Lead, Senior Python Developer - Cisco Systems Inc Chelmsford, MA • 14 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based application software on various domains.  • Very Strong programming skills in Python(2/3), Django(1.7/ 2+) , Perl, Shell.  • Strong Expertise in web technologies such as Javascript, Angular JS, D3js, Highcarts, HTML and CSS.  • Experience in Databases technologies Like PostgresSQL, MySQL and Oracle. Expertise on database Backup/Recovery, writing queries, functions.  • Good experience also in of Unix/Linux OS from system admin view point also, for all flavors such as Ubuntu, Centos, Red hat.  • Developed Complete Analytics Solution Web Portal from scratch on Django Framework.  • Build Generic SQL Dashboard / Panels framework and Generic Email Report having capability of parsing SQL query and displaying charts/tables.  • Created type SQL and get charts framework which enables users to view data from any data source.  • Implemented configurable Role based menu/submenu access for web portal.  • In Depth Knowledge of Django REST API Framework, Python Pandas library, celery tasks and management of Databases.  • Good Understanding about multiple celery tasks, tasks routing, prioritization, load balancing.  • Worked on parsing of large volume of data, parallel processing, derived meaningful information and presented them in fancy Charts (Highcharts / D3JS).  • Handy experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Template architecture using Django web application framework.  • Familiar with Kubernetes, Dockers and Virtualization concepts.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Perl, RegEx, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, RESTful, AJAX, Angular Js.  • Experienced in building data models using machine learning techniques for Classification, Regression, Clustering and Associative mining.  • Very good experience with cloud platforms like Cisco Cloud.  • Experience in working with Python ORM (Object Relational Mapping) code Library including Django ORM to switch an application between various relational databases, for web Scraping.  • Proficient in Machine Learning, Data/Text Mining, Statistical Analysis & Predictive Modeling techniques.  • User Machine Learning algorithms to detect anomaly and send alerts to different systems.  • Good at writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using databases like PostgreSQL, Oracle, MySQL, DB2.  • Working experience in working with Web Servers and troubleshooting issues of Apache server, NGINX.  • Exposure to ETL tool such as Pentaho, Apache NIFI.  • Experience of working on Mercurial code repository and Git. Fully aware of all the capabilities like check in, checkout, merge, branches etc.  • Have strong knowledge of Unix Servers, Deployments, package installation and also system level admin too. Have experience in writing Ansible scripts for server deployments.  • Exposure also to ELK (Elastic Search, Logstash and Kibana), Kafka, Hive, Impala.  • Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Having Strong experience of software development in Python and libraries used are regex, numpy, scipy, python-pandas, django-timezone, django-celery, oepnpyxl and many more.  • Well versed with Design and Development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Actively involved in requirement gathering from client and design / manage the team of software developers.  • Having good experience in SDLC methodologies like Agile and Scrum Methodologies and following JIRA for software developments tasks.  • Practical experience with working on Multiple-Environments like Development, Testing, Production.  • Having good knowledge on Bug Tracking Tools like JIRA, BUGZILLA and in Project management.  • Good Analytical and Problem-Solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent Interpersonal and Communication skills, Efficient Time Management and Organization Skills, ability to handle Multiple-Tasks and work well in a Team-Environment.  • Very Confident and positive attitude approach for solving tasks.  • Always thinks and does of Automating the manual tasks to save time and use time efficiently.  • Always open to learn new things and adapt to new technologies.  • Excellent debugging skills. Identify the root cause of the problem quickly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Tech Lead, Senior Python Developer Cisco Systems Inc - Boxborough, MA September 2012 to Present Project Description:  Matrix is a Multi-vendor performance analytics solution which enables visibility across the infrastructure and application layers. It provides customer behavior insights by correlating infrastructure statistics. We use machine learning for anomaly detection, correlation and forecasting. It is Integrated with orchestration tools to trigger actions based on analytic insights.  Multi-Technology/Multivendor Support - Data collection and processing ability with in-built data adaptors and generic analytics functions across multi-technology and multi-vendor products for e.g. Radio, Access, Core, IP Core, Data Center, NFVi.  Customization - Generic reusable core functions to allow build use cases with agility and flexibility like generic KPI builder, custom dashboards, custom reports.  Machine Learning - Inbuilt ML framework with integrated ML algorithms, allows to build Machine Learning capabilities for Anomaly Detection, Predictive Analytics, Forecasting, Pattern Mining  Automation - Integration with automation solutions (for e.g. Redhat Ansible, Cisco NSO) which enable the capability to take timely actions on the network based on the triggers received from analytics solution and workflows associated with it.    Responsibilities:  • Gather Requirements from customers, understand Feasibility, develop applications and test the applications.  • Developed the project from scratch. I was the first developer to start the project and now managing a team of 10+ developers. Assign, design and review the work of developers.  • Develop and Design Applications using Python Django, PostgreSQL and HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Designing of database, database tables, purge data, database back and restore on PostgreSQL.  • Develop the applications in modular and generalized way so it can be re-used by other applications.  • Import data from different data sources and normalize, aggregate using python pandas  • Develop web portal with Cisco UI Standard specifications and display different dashboards for executive, Data Analysts and different users.  • Process KPI's and Syslog's for different data sources of ASR5k, Radio , SON, CPS etc.  • Handle large volume of data and process them in real time by writing efficient programs.  • Implement machine learning algorithms for forecasting and anomaly detections.  • Manage application server load and processing tasks using Celery and Rabbit MQ.  • Adapt to Micro Services Architecture protocol so that teams can work independently.  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software.  • Automate the process of sending KPI and syslog reports, alerts for the different data sources such as MOOG Soft.  • Manage the web applications for different customers and users.  • Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application and track progress using JIRA.  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap to cisco standard UI.  • Responsible for code review, ensuing quality and software configuration management.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug,  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Provide L2/L3 Support.  • Developed web portal applications of VNF Onboarding, IOT etc.    Environment:  Python 2.7/3.6, Django, HTML5, CSS, PostgresSQL, Angular JavaScript, JQuery, CSS , Highcharts, D3js, Mercurial, Linux, Shell Scripting, NGINX, Celery, Rabbit MQ, JIRA. Software Developer Citibank - Township of Warren, NJ April 2010 to September 2012 Project Description:  S2 is a Global Profit & Loss Reporting, Adjustment and Management tool which provides a global view of P&L and supports current and future needs of the business.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for verifying 40+ customer feeds across the globe for the timely arrival and ensuring the data sanity.  • Design and do application coding for showing profit and loss on GUI using Python, Perl, Shell Scripting.  • Created reconciliation engine software to compare datasets across different feeds.  • Develop automation tool to compare Oracle data across different environments like SIT/UAT/PROD using Abinitio.  • Handled two migration projects as a technical lead.  • Created Web Portal for highlighting the reconciliation data using javascript, HTML and CSS.  • Preform unit testing, code review for peers.  • Create automated process to send status report, which helped support team to manually verify the data and saved lots of time.  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • High proficiency in developing Oracle PLSQL.  • Worked on different data formats such as CSV, JSON, XML.  • Performed adjustments of data by manually correcting the DB entries.  • Created automated process for code deployment/patch deployment on the servers.  • Provided L2/L3 Support.  • Create JIL's using Autosys.    Environment: Python, Perl, Shell, Abinito, Oracle PL/SQL, Autosys, SVN. Software Developer Nortel Networks - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2007 to March 2010 Project Description:  Install and UPGRADE defines the order and sequence in which the different network elements in the BSSM can be upgraded or installed. Switch Technicians, Network Operators and Field Technicians mainly use it while deploying or upgrading network elements. Base Station Subsystem Manager (BSSM) is a network manager for Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) which includes Base Station Controller (BSC) and Base Station Transceivers Subsystem (BTS). BSSM allows the network operator to configure and manage the network elements in a CDMA network.    Responsibilities:  • Feature Development  • Change Request Fixing.  • Design/Code Testing  • Support for performing Install and Upgrade.  • Code and Design Review  • Ownership of modules such as LAT(Lab Automation Tool) and CSD (Common Service Desktop)  LAT- Lab automation tool to support tasks to perform Upgrade automatically.  CSD- Common security Desktop to add security components to the OS.    Environment: UNIX Solaris, Python, PERL, Shell Scripting , C++, JAVA, TCL/TK Software Developer British Telecom - Pune, Maharashtra September 2005 to August 2007 Project Description:  BTExact Technologies is British Telecom's business arm for advanced communication technologies. BTExact develops leading-edge solutions for BT and its customers to gain maximum advantage from communications technology, creating value and competitive advantage by combining deep knowledge of networks and networked applications with proven skills in innovation, change management and IT operations.  WOOSH is UI testing by BT for carrying out Application Development & Maintenance.    Responsibilities:  • Understand the application and prepare documents for references.  • Requirements Gathering and design the use cases.  • Feature Development of application using shell, perl, C, C++.  • Defect /CR fixing    Enviornment:  UNIX , Python, PERL, Shell scripting, C , C++ , Oracle ,XML/XSLT Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills DJANGO, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, JENKINS, PERL, PHP, PYTHON, MATPLOTLIB, NUMPY, REGEX, XML, APACHE, LINUX, UNIX, AJAX, CSS, nginx, CLUSTERING, MySQL, HTML 5, ASP, jQuery, Android Assessments Critical Thinking — Familiar July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rnaiqogogkijfe7b Data Analysis — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/oz3cahrcoasbao3k Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Python, Shell Script, Perl, SQL, PHP  Web Framework Django  Databases PostgresSQL, MySQL, Oracle  Web Technologies XML, CSS, HTML, Angular JS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, REST, AJAX, D3JS  Python Libraries pandas, numpy, regex, timezone, openpyxl, pyhive, scipy, matplotlib and many more.  Software Management Mercurial, Git  Web Servers Apache server, NGINX  IDE Pycharm, Sublime  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, JIRA.  Deployments Ansible, Jenkins  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux  Machine Learning k-means clustering, db-scan