Job Seeker Work Experience University of California - Riverside, CA April 2018 to Present Description: Working on UC Riverside college project, it's a project to automate the review and file process, creating reviews, processing them and getting approvals from Dean level, Academic level and Department level. This application has E-file system where all the related files of the candidate will be stored.  Roles and Responsibility:  • Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design phase and the development phase, utilizing Agile Methodology and SCRUM process.  • Worked on tuples, dictionaries, object-oriented concepts based inheritance features for making algorithms.  • Queried MySQL database queries from Python using-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package to retrieve information.  • Design reports, dashboards and data visualization using tableau.  • Successfully interpreted data to draw conclusions for managerial action and strategy.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging and storage devices.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used Python and Django for XML, JSON processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  Environments: Python, Django, HTML5, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL, AJAX, Flask, PostgreSQL, Shell, Bootstrap, Linux, Tableau. Python Developer HCL - Dallas, TX January 2017 to November 2017 Description: This project is deals about mortgage defaulters; mortgage companies use this application to contact defaulters and their status. It will give the list of defaulters and their status, based on that banks will take decisions.  Roles and Responsibility  • Developed Enterprise Application in an AGILE environment using Python, Django, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Involved in various phases of project like Analysis, Design, Development and Testing.  • Used PyQtto Python Package to create Data tables and perform CRUD operations on SQL database.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and used SQLAlchemy to fetch the data.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed python based API using Flask and PostgreSQL.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Worked on Data Cleansing, Data Analysis and Monitoring Using Data Quality and created various test case scenarios.  • Used Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript.  Environment: Python 2.7, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Django, Linux, MySQL, Bootstrap, Git, XML, JQuery, SQLAlchemy. Full Stack Developer CMC Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2013 to July 2015 Description: The project is to build the self-service business term search engine for the next generation data management so that it can be used for wide variety of cross-platforms within the organization.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked with Product Manager on documenting the requirements, conducted conceptual designs, details analysis and technical specification.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery for dynamic functionality of a webpage for front end applications.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML and CSS.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review architect and Business Units.  • Designed and created SQL Databases, tables, indexes, and views based on user requirements.  • Worked with the application developers and provide necessary SQL Scripts using T-SQL.  • Worked on front end frameworks like Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Designed and Developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Debug application deployments on Multiple-Environments.  • Assigned to validate all the user inputs before submitting to the back-end.  • Continuously maintained and troubleshoot the Python Django modules.  • Pyro library was used to enable the communication between the host and client machine.  • Implemented the Task Component with CRUD methods and searching and filtering methods.  • Created Stored Procedures, T-SQL statements, Functions to manipulate the databases.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap 3, JSON, jQuery, MySQL, SQLite, Pyro, UML, MVC, Shell scripting, Rational Rose, Oracle 9i Python Developer Orbit Technologies Research Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2012 to September 2013 Description: Participated in SDLC process of project which deals in handling one of the client's bank application to handle the transactions securely and effectively in the same interface. working with other departments to understand needs and resources to rapidly adapt to the changes within the organization.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked effectively on elevating user experience with software solutions by working with design teams.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of users online and used pytest for writing test cases.  • Modified existing software to upgrade interfaces and improve performance.  • Wrote python scripts to load data and parse XML scripts.  • Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/database engineer for high-volume data processing.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Improved user experience by creating and designing new web components and features.  • Developed and tested new features using Bootstrap, HTML and JavaScript.  • Extracted the data from scripts written in python using Beautiful Soup.  • Used SQLAlchemy as Object Relational Mapper (ORM) for writing ORM queries.  • Used AJAX and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and backend.  • Worked with backend engineers and QA team to see projects through, from conception to completion.  • Developed views and templates in Django to create user-friendly website interface.  • Continually established clear operational specifications and formulated software requirements.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL, Shell scripting, Bootstrap, Linux, ETL, SQLAlchemy. Education Master's in Computer Science Wright State University - Dayton, OH Skills BOOTSTRAP (4 years), CSS (4 years), DJANGO (4 years), HTML (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years) Additional Information Skills  Python (5 years), Java (5 years), Django (5 years), HTML (5 years), JavaScript (5 years), MySQL (5 years)    • Programming skills: Java, Python, C.  • Database: MySQL, Oracle, NoSQL.  • Analytical tools: Tableau, MS - Excel, SQL, Pandas.  • Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, Bootstrap, JSON, NodeJS, MVC, REST APIs.  • Frameworks: Django, Flask.  • Cloud Technologies: Hadoop, PIG, Spark, AWS, Docker.  • IDE and Other Software: NetBeans, Eclipse, MS Office, MS Visual Studio, Sublime Text, Notepad++, Git & GitHub, Atom, Google chart, WEKA, Agile Development Methodology and Agile Sprint.