Senior Python Developer/DevOps Research & Development Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/DevOps Research &amp; Development Engineer Senior Python Developer/DevOps Research & Development Engineer - Asura Film Minneapolis, MN • Highly motivated Python Full Stack Developer with 8+ years of diverse experience in design, development, implementation of Python, Django, Flask, Pyramid and client-server technologies-based applications, RESTful services, AWS, C# with Unity, SQL.  • Extensive programmed various kinds of software applications from simple desktop programs to enterprise-level multi-tier applications using software development, expertise in PyQT, Python, C# Unity.  • Experience in writing scripts using frameworks in Python.  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Triggers, functions on SQL.  • Strong experience in using different Python libraries like Pandas, Numpy, pyodbc, pymysql, requests, urllib, urllib2, matplotlib etc.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2.  • Experience in building frameworks in Python for Test Automation.  • Excellent Experience in Code Refactoring. Solid ability to code in Python and JavaScript.  • SQL and Full stack web development using Python Flask.  • Extensive experience in using Python to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, PostgreSQL, MySQL and MongoDB with continuous deployment using Heroku.  • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and Good working experience in processing large datasets with Pyspark.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with JSON / XML based REST Web services  • Experienced in creating Restful API in NodeJS.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies process, including Daily Standups, Code review, Gant Chart.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Work Experience Senior Python Developer/DevOps Research & Development Engineer Asura Film - Burbank, CA June 2016 to Present Project Description:  Asura is a fantasy film based on a Buddhist mythological realm of "pure desire" that becomes threatened by a lower heavenly kingdom, cue epic battles and a $100 million budget.  Asura is shot in seven locations across China, including Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau and the city of Liupanshui in Guizhou Province.    Job Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and implemented applications on Generic 3D Interface in data management.  • Collaborated on constant workflow system, saving development time with the automatization of tasks for visual effects process in the editorial and VFX production departments.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Experience in various modules like rest framework, Numpy etc.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps report on daily progress.  • Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  • Worked with cross-functional teams (including data engineer team) to extract data and rapidly execute from MongoDB through MongDB connector.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Develop and execute test plans, test cases, bug reports and scenarios for functional and regression testing.  • Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Perform positive and Negative testing by inputting valid and invalid data.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Expertise in code review for the code developed by team and suggesting the relevant and appropriate changes.  • Dealing with client regarding the requirements of the projects and taking care of production issues and bugs.  Environment: Python 2.7/3.5, HTML5, JSON, Rest, Django, SQL, Linux, Windows, Golang, PostgreSQL, MongoDB and python libraries such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy, AWS etc. Python Full Stack Software Engineer Ollin VFX - Mexico City, MX September 2014 to May 2016 Project Description:  Visual Effects projects from Hollywood, working with different clients into the Movie industry or postproduction, such as Marvel, DC Entertainment, Twentieth Century Fox, Universal Pictures, Sony Entertainment Network and Netflix. Each project of those clients needs different kind of process and procedures with different specs each other, making 3D modeling, 2D Compositing and working with different length of shots and data.    Job Responsibilities:  • Gather business requirement and converting business requirements to technical requirements.  • Responsible for identifying stories/tasks and estimating efforts and timelines at granular level.  • Responsible for Architecture and design implementation including database schema.  • Researched and proposed technological advancements to a product line based on the current market trends.  • Managing and Leading different teams working on Hardware, Embedded and Backend.  • Designed, developed application using Python language and QT Framework, Data Management, and Backend server.  • Developed web application using python and Django framework.  • Worked on User Interface using Django templating and PyQt4.  • Created Data tables using PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Designed, developed frontend using Qt Framework and Qt Designer.  • Involved in cloud application deployment using Nginx web servers on Amazon EC2.  • Created test plans and detailed test cases for web tests to be performed with Python.  • Set up an Integrated response to the API Gateway requests from backend to client using Lambda functions.  • Used the AWS SDK for Python to write programs to perform the CRUD and Cross-functional operations on Amazon DynamoDB  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, JSON, NodeJS, PostgreSQL, Nginx, Linux, Amazon EC2. Senior Python/Information Technology Development Analyst Laureate International Universities-State of Mexico February 2012 to August 2014 Project Description:  Data migration between services and servers, making new services with python and oracle communication, building new interfaces for users of different areas at scholar industry.  Customization of legacy applications and web services to customize to new workflows.  New RDBMS for the new model and bunch of data and types to represented to the clients and new GUI.    Job Responsibilities:  • Users administration in active directories, workflow with ERP Oracle environment and Database administration processed on quality assurance's environments for save and protect data in server.  • Perform Data migration, Workflow guides and releases new data.  • Design and Build Oracle Frontend with Oracle Forms tool and Oracle objects to create nightly jobs.  • Responsible for Database Administration (DBA) tasks and provide user access and permissions.  • Performed some operations, visualization on Oracle DB using libraries like, Matplotlib, Pandas.  • Worked with Network related python libraries for transferring the files and connecting remotely to the servers.  • Used Cloud-watch for monitoring AWS cloud resources and the applications that deployed on AWS by creating new alarm, enable notification service.  • Worked with Relational DB (RDBMD) like SQLite, MYSQL Workbench, PostgreSQL and No-SQL database MongoDB for database connectivity.  • Wrote Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database and performed error and exceptional handling.  • Wrote test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.    Environment: Python, NumPy, Pandas, JSON, Oracle DB, MySQL, PL/SQL, Linux, XHTML, JavaScript, Django. Jr. Software Engineer Laureate International Universities-State of Mexico June 2009 to December 2011 Job Responsibilities:  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using JavaScript.  • Wrote Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Worked with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu, Linux and UNIX.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python to build responsive web page application.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Good experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Created Data tables using PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  Environment: Python, Django, JavaScript, Windows, Ubuntu, Linux, Unix, Google Analytics. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science National Polytechnic Institute - Mexico City, MX Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Insurgentes University - Mexico City, MX Skills DJANGO (9 years), JSON (9 years), LINUX (9 years), PYTHON (9 years), SQL (7 years) Additional Information Operating Systems Linux, Windows 10/8/7/Vista/XP, OSX.  Programming Languages Python 2.X, Python 3.X, SQL, JavaScript, C#.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, Java Script, NodeJS, AngularJS, nginx, JSON, XML, RESTful services, MVC.  Web Server Web logic, Flask, Django, Node.JS  Databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle.  NoSQL MongoDB, Google Firebase databases.  Python Web Frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask, web2Py  Development IDE PyCharm, Pydev Eclipse, Vim, Net beans, MS Visio, Sublime Text, Notepad++  Web Services RESTful  Version Control Git-Hub  Virtualization Amazon EC2    Methodologies Agile, Scrum  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP, SMTP.  IoT Raspberry Pi  Design UML, OO-design, data/service-oriented design.  Cognitive Systems Vision systems, auditory input, machine learning techniques (SVMs etc.), neural networks