Python + Django Backend Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> + Django Backend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Tampa, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python + Django Backend Developer Saxo Denmark - Copenhagen, NY August 2013 to Present I have been working (remotely) full time for a Denmark company (SAXO, www.saxo.com), we have been developing this publishing platform https://publish.saxo.com, where authors can manage their e-books, courses, and Print-On-Demand books, and from here we take care of making their products visible in several bookstores, and platforms. As part of this we integrate the platform with www.saxo.com, and some other third-party dependencies. We have integrated some payment systems like Adyen (www.adyen.com) and PayPal for some services we offer. I started my work on the company migrating some JQuery code to AngularJS (I still play with Angular code from time to time, and with some front-end task), and also fixing bugs in the back-end, but I mainly do back-end development right now. Talking about what we use to build this, here it is a list of the main frameworks, tools and technologies:    - Django (We are using now Django 1.910)  - AngularJS  - Django REST framework  - Celery + RabbitMQ  - Nginx + uWSGI  - Git  - Linux (mainly Ubuntu)  - Shell Script for some deployment scripts we build  - Mezzanine  - Ansible for deployments automation, and to maintain the systems environment  - Vagrant for our development environment  - Transifex for translations  - CircleCI (https://circleci.com/), we code unit tests as part of our work flow for both the backend and the frontend.  - Jira to plan, and track our tasks  - SCRUM, we do Sprint Planning in a 15 days basis, we do meetings via Skype to discuss the tasks. We use Slack to communicate each other, and we discuss everyday via Slack what we did, and in what we are going to work.  - We use GitHub. We make Pull Requests for the things that we code and we consider that are ready to merge and release, and we do code review for every Pull Request.  - We store all the files in AWS buckets. Self-employed, freelance Web- developer AlessTidyCraft Web Solutions - Umeå February 2011 to July 2014 Web programming with Python+Django. My working day was about css/SCSS, Javascript, Angular JS, JQuery, websites deployments, and databases, and of course Python code. Professor and project leader University of Informatic Sciences - Havana, IL September 2006 to July 2011 I teached artificial intelligence for several semesters, while doing research on bio-informatics and leading a related project. Also, I have worked on gene silencing and algorithms for searching siRNA' targets in RNA sequences, miRNAS, and SNP influences in miRNAs. Education Master in Bioinformatic in Bioinformatic FACULTY OF NUCLEAR SCIENCES AND TECHNOLOGY - Havana, IL February 2008 to February 2010 System Analyst in Computer Science University of Camaguey - Camagüey, Camp. September 2001 to August 2006 Skills Web Development (10+ years), Django (8 years), Python (8 years), Angular JS (4 years)