Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - USAA Immokalee, FL Technically-proficient Java Development Engineer with innate ability to solve complex problems by learning quickly, building solid collaborative relationships and applying tenacity and dedication to all projects. Work Experience Java Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX 2017 to Present • Create Web Services (utilizing REST, etc.) to allow 3rd party clients ease of operation in retrieving data from Application for their own consumption, as well as performing data testing using technologies including Postman.  • Performed multiple Agile environment sprints every two weeks to enhance scalability, changing legacy code into modern syntax.  • Refactored legacy code to bring it up to current standards. Senior Full Stack Java Developer United Healthcare - Waltham, MA 2011 to 2017 • Responsible for end to end full stack development of application, performing functions including building the UI, retrieving data from Oracle database and pulling data from EMRs to AMQ (via Mirth).  • Interfaced with multiple third party APIs (including EMMI) to allow easier access to data for/from clients. Also utilized Salesforce API interface to push to Care Coordination.  • Create intricate User Interfaces for Analytic Application using technologies including Richfaces, Spring, Hibernate and J Query. These UIs allow the consumer to view analytical data easily without mathematical computations.  • Develop Analytics Engine using Spring in order to increase efficiency of taking data from EMRs.    • Perform Flex UI and React development to generate reports for data analysis and initiate web services.  • Regularly monitored scalability by refactoring blocks of classes for improved processing (more logical, more speed).  • When code was not performing to maximum efficiency, would debug (timing schema REST service call, etc.) inserting time primers to alert responsiveness issues, then go inside code and improve process (taking out for loops) as needed.  • Wrote code that interacted with Siteminder. Software Quality Assurance Automation Engineer Contract Raytheon - Billerica, MA 2010 to 2010 • Created CodedUI automated testing on Team Foundation Server 2010.  • Coded C# as part of the creation.  • Quality Assurance Lead for up to 10 Sharepoint Web Application Releases biweekly. Employed mostly Manual testing, but also used CodedUI automated tests. Software Quality Assurance & Python Development Engineer AVID TECHNOLOGY - Tewksbury, MA 2006 to 2010 • Developed Java JSP application utilizing JAXB allowing QA to alter xml files.  • Self-taught python and c++ to write scripts and library for automated smoke tests.  • Compiled drivers for Linux operating system Centos and executed functional testing.  • Functional and stress tested MediaNet software and hardware(shared storage system for movie houses and broadcasters) as Lead Test Engineer covering fiber connectivity and vendor driver compliance.  • Tested using automated software Satin, which is an in-house replica of Silk.  • Utilized Agile/Scrum in the organization. Quality Assurance Engineer Contract DIALOG - Burlington, MA 2004 to 2004 • Created automated Java based tools for QA department.  • Designed a thread based tool to create a directory on qa server that corresponded to the date modified of input file and copied input files into the directory. This reduced time in the qa process from several hours to a few minutes.  • Created configuration files for thousands of news providers. Values were pulled out of xml files. This tool saved many days of manual creation.  • Tested news aggregation drivers utilizing manual test plans and test cases. Quality Assurance Engineer LUMAPATH - Maynard, MA 2001 to 2002 • Created test plans and test cases for Server side and Client from functional specs.  • Tested integration with Siebel, Oracle, SQL Server 7, Pivotal.  • Created and populated databases and configured CRM's on top of databases. Education Masters of Computer Science in Computer Science Boston University - Boston, MA BA in Literature The George Washington University - Washington, DC Skills Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Jsf, Servlets, Rest, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Git, Javascript, Python, Xml, Linux, Ant, Windows 7, Mac, J2Ee, Core Java, JEE, Java J2Ee, Soap, MVC, JSP Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Program Languages: Java (Richfaces, Webservices(REST), Salesforce, Messaging(AMQ), Servlets, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, JBDC), JQuery/Javascript, Python, XML, Ant.  Applications: SoapUI, Git.  Relational Databases: Oracle, Mysql, SQL Server, Access.  O/S: Linux, Mac, Windows 7.