Cloud Engineer Architect Cloud Engineer Architect AWS Cloud Engineer - Wipro Plano, TX Work Experience Cloud Engineer Architect Wipro Limited July 2019 to Present Creation and maintenance of development, test and production environments with a goal of high availability, fault-tolerance and scalability. Participate in planning, implementation, and growth of the infrastructure on Amazon Web  Services (AWS). Work with the larger design team to develop a full Hybrid Cloud Solution. Implementing continuous  integration and deployment of code to the cloud hosted environments to accelerate development and reduce  manual effort. IaC with Gitlab, Docker, Jenkins, Terraform, Packer. Contributed to Kafka and OpenShift Adoption GCP Terraform Engineer Data Piper Tech October 2018 to May 2019 Responsible for design, implementation and success of Terraform Infrastructure as Code to migrate automation of very large  scale automation product. Version Control with Git, Continuous Integration with CircleCI for Google Cloud Platform. Golang  Code in Containers for custom monitoring in Kubernetes, Istio Lead Site Reliability Engineer Ebates Rakuten March 2018 to October 2018 Contributed to the architectural review of existing and or new application infrastructure to promote reliability, fault  tolerance, performance, and scalability. Migrated production workloads running in VMware on premises to Docker  Containers running in Kubernetes container orchestration (AWS EKS). Automation and orchestration to enable: Accelerated  infrastructure, application and software deployment using Terraform. Loggly, New Relic, Akamai, Ansible, AWS for containerized applications in Java, Golang, and Node.JS. Python. Serverless computing with AWS Lambda. Senior Site Reliability Engineer Prosper Marketplace December 2016 to March 2018 Reliability, performance, and scalability of microservices API in Java, Node.JS, Angular, Docker, Kubernetes. DevOps with Packer, Terraform, VMWare, DNS, DHCP, Jenkins, Artifactory, NGINX Reverse Proxy, F5 Big-IP. Ansible for alerting, monitoring  dashboards New Relic, Datadog, Splunk. On-call rotation, mentoring, automate Solr deployments. AWS EMR and Hadoop Senior DevOps Engineer OpenStack, AWS January 2016 to October 2016 DevOps Engineering with CICD, Deployment Automation, Orchestration and Configuration Management with SaltStack, Chef and Python. Agile Software Engineering and the mindset of Infrastructure as Code for Java, Hadoop Virtualization, Git, Restful  API, Linux, Monitoring Dashboards (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana), Cloud (OpenStack, AWS), NoSQL (Cassandra), and  Storage (NetApp) Cloud Software Engineer III Cisco June 2015 to December 2015 Design and implement operational tools and automation for OpenStack Cloud Computing projects in Python  to automate development workflow for API, RabbitMQ, Kafka Agile software engineering with Git, Gerrit, Ansible, Vagrant, Shell, Bash Cloud Linux Ubuntu. Monitoring and metering for Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) Principal Software Engineer DRG October 2014 to June 2015 Developed stateless API for data integration and analytics products, outcome and modeling capabilities, AWS Cloud  Infrastructure, Agile code optimization with Vagrant Ansible and Git for ETL Ingestion, and transformation of data  Database models, ETLs and Restful API endpoints with unittests (nose) for Jenkins CI to promote Java artifacts Python Automation Engineer Apple August 2013 to July 2014 Developed WiFi, BT, Telephony, iCloud test cases, automated testing frameworks and API driven by automation requirements for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization Data driven Application Developer Python Candidate, LLC September 2012 to August 2013 SQA Test Automation, Software Engineer DevOps AWS Linux. Python Test  Automation, project. Scalable DC Architecture in Cassandra on RHEL in AWS using Python, Flask and SaltStack. Data  Engineering ETL for moving data to / from Teradata to Hadoop HDFS Software Engineer Monsanto Company July 2011 to August 2012 Developed Python and Perl HPC software for NextGen Sequence Data Bioinformatics Analysis Pipelines with Big Data for Biological Sequences in Intellectual Property US + International Patent Filings Discovery Developer Google AppEngine, Google Shopping PC Sprockets Performance Computers / Gaming Hardware August 2008 to June 2011 Google Products), AWS Cloud Infrastructure, e-commerce, online marketing Python Developer in Web Frameworks Optimise Life Sciences Bioinformatics June 2006 to July 2008 Django, Flask) for data mining and everything from Backend to UI Lead Software Developer POS Software and Web applications SDI Concepts Personal Computer June 2000 to May 2006 in LAMP (PHP, Perl, or Python) tons of HTML CSS Education MASTERS of SCIENCE in MS Molecular Biology & Genetics Cornell University - Ithaca, NY 2006 BACHELORS in BA Microbiology Miami University - Oxford, OH 1996 Skills Engineer, Linux, Api, Docker, Git, Python, Devops, AWS, Jenkins, Hadoop (5 years), Javascript, SQL, XML, Jquery, HTML Certifications/Licenses Google Cloud Architect Professional May 2019 to May 2021 Driver's License