Manager Manager Cape Coral, FL Work Experience Manager PC Support Group - Cape Coral, FL May 2014 to Present General manager of small Computer Sales, Service and Repair business. Duties include managing small staff 2-4, client appointments, hardware repairs of Desktop Computers, Laptops, Tablets, Mobile phones. Operating System installs, repair and upgrades and troubleshoot. Hard drive replacements, cloning of hard drives, remote service using Teamviewer and other remote software. Onsite client jobs.  Marketing, banking deposits and any other duties as needed. IT Consultant AssetQuest and SoaringSky September 2017 to August 2018 Contract Position to handle various duties including:  (1) Acquire data to process Citizen's Insurance Hurricane Reports. Use Xactimate and AIMS (a proprietary software) to import drone images, analyze images for hurricane damage and highlight and generate final inspection report.    (2) Provide General IT support in a Windows Server environment including Active Directory. Add users and computers/devices to network/active directory. Assist users as needed including with VOiP phones issues with RingCentral and Polycom phone issues. General support and repairs.    (3) Download various Florida County Property Appraiser records and Tax Records for Proprietary Software used to evaluate county parcel lands. Includes cleaning data with Excel, Access and MySql database and PHP on a Windows and Linux environment. Systems Analyst/Programmer CSL PLASMA - Boca Raton, FL August 2013 to March 2014 Upgrade/Maintain existing Plasma software written in Python. Python/Jython Installer Support Team Emerson Corporation - Sunrise, FL December 2011 to May 2012 Avocent Center, Sunrise, Florida)  Position: Python/Jython Installer Support Team.  Project: Trellis (http://www.emersonnetworkpower.com/trellis/en-us/pages/home.aspx)  Overview: The Trellis System project is a data center infrastructure management (DCIM) product. The Installer is a complex program which installs and configures the system. There are three basic elements in the Trellis System; (1) the front-end (Oracle Weblogic), (2) the backend (Oracle Enterprise Database) and (3) the UMG device (a proprietary hardware gateway). The front and back ends interface with the UMG device which in turn connects to various hardware components in the data center. Users interact with the data center via the Weblogic frontend.    • Configuration of InstallAnywhere software  • Configuration of mount points for various Installer binaries (DBA, JVM, SOA, OSB etc.)  • Rsyncing between the binaries and local versions  • Running/monitoring the Installer operation using log files  • Diagnosing any issues reported in the log files. Senior Systems Analyst South Florida Water Management District July 2000 to August 2011 Projects/Programming Languages: Primary Senior Developer/Team leader on the RSMGUI development team SOUTH FLORIDA WATER MANAGEMENT DISTRICT - West Palm Beach, FL 2000 to 2011 2004 - 2011: Primary recent language used is Python. Extensive Scientific application development supporting Hydrologic Modeling including reading SCADA binary  Python Projects:  (1) Most recent application: Primary Senior Developer/Team leader on the RSMGUI development team. This is a python based GUI application used for the pre/post processing of the Regional Simulation Model (A triangular, irregular GIS based hydrologic model used for the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Project a.k.a. CERP) and water supply modeling for the South Florida region extending from the Kissimmee area to the Florida Keys.    The database backend comprised of NetCDF scientific binary data files which were processed in python and ultimately into various reports and charts. Charts were converted to pdf using LaTex with many reports finalized in the csv format. The application was hosted on a Linux Cluster and was available to Windows clients via xming/Putty and VMWARE workstation.    Duties also included detailed documentation, exception handling. Photo editing. Use Case Testing.    Version control was handled by SVN.    A lighter internal web version was also developed and hosted on an apache server with a MySql database backend.    (2) Projects from 2000 - 2004.  • Project Name: PMViewer, a Java based web application with an Oracle database backend.    • Extensive web development using the technologies listed below. These were internal web sites used to evaluate hydrologic modeling results.    • 2000 - 2004: Extensive Web development using HTML, Javascript, Java, VBScript, ASP, php, MySql, Oracle, JSP. ArcGIS. PostNuke, Joomla, Moodle.    Platforms: Unix, Solaris, Linux, Windows, MAC Education BS in Computer Science Florida Atlantic University 2001 BFA Florida Atlantic University 1991