C++, C#, and Python Projects Programmer C++, C#, and <span class="hl">Python</span> Projects Programmer Riverside, IL Software Engineer Work Experience C++, C#, and Python Projects Programmer Self July 2015 to Present Wrote a large number of C++, C#, and Python projects to stay current and up to date with C++, C#, and Python. Instructor in Game Programming Tribeca Flashpoint College January 2015 to June 2015 Taught "GAM 140: Introduction to Programming" and "GAM 237: Topics in Game Programming" in the Spring Semester. GAM 140 covered introductory C# programming. GAM 237 covered Unity game scripting and advanced programming topics using C#. Instructor in Game Programming DePaul University September 2013 to June 2014 Taught "GAM 350: Physics for Game Developers" and "GAM 226: Fundamentals of Game Design" in the Fall Quarter. Taught "GAM 377: Fundamentals of Game Programming II" and "GAM 226: Fundamentals of Game Design" in the Winter Quarter. Taught "GAM 374: Fundamentals of Game Programming I", "GAM 340: Practical Scripting for Games", and "GAM 224: Game Design for Non-Majors" in the Spring Quarter. Programming classes were taught using C++ and C#. Quantitative Developer DV Trading March 2012 to August 2012 Wrote a Price-Yield Display program that displays the price-yield curve for Fed Fund futures in real-time. Built a Blotter GUI application that keeps track of Fed Fund and Eurodollar futures positions and fills. Wrote an Edge Finder program that places and maintains orders on futures calendar spreads where it determines it has an edge in the outright market. All programs were written in C# and work on both Trading Technologies and CQG trading platforms. These programs were used daily by the Fed Fund and Eurodollar traders to execute trades and manage their positions. Quantitative Developer Traditum Group May 2011 to November 2011 Worked as quantitative developer for fixed income trading group that later moved to DV Trading. See DV Trading listing above for complete description of relevant work. Instructor in Game Programming Columbia College January 2011 to May 2011 Taught "Introduction to Programming: Theory and Concepts" to undergraduates at Columbia College's Interactive Arts and Media Program in Chicago. I taught students how to program in C# and used the C# language to introduce them to basic programming concepts. NinjaTrader Strategy Programmer HappyDev May 2009 to April 2011 Wrote NinjaTrader strategies and indicators. Independent traders would send me proposals for custom strategies or indicators that they wanted built and I would code them in C# according to their specifications. I wrote a strategy engine capable of handling several orders per entry, each with individual profit target, profit trigger, and stop loss. The engine was written so I could easily swap out different indicators or use multiple indicators to specify when to enter the orders. C# Programmer Superfund Strategies February 2008 to April 2009 Wrote a broker simulation server to test Superfund's newly developed in-house order routing pipeline. Wrote a Bloomberg market data broadcast server to build bid-ask price objects from Bloomberg market depth updates and broadcast the price objects on different bid-ask level channels. Wrote SQL queries to retrieve data on Bloomberg-specific instruments. Contract Programmer Novint Technologies, Inc March 2007 to April 2007 Lead programmer for Feelin' It: 3-Point Shootout. Wrote the haptics, physics, error correction, and gameplay code for a basketball game in which a player uses the Novint Falcon to feel the sensation of holding and throwing a basketball at a basketball hoop, backboard, and net. Developer Support Engineer Ageia Technologies May 2004 to December 2006 Wrote the PhysX Training Programs to teach the PhysX SDK to game developers. In the tutorials, I instruct new developers on the use of the SDK and explain features of the SDK in clear, simple, and understandable terms. Worked as forum moderator to troubleshoot and resolve any issues the end users had using the SDK. Interacted with engineers and management to address issues and implement new features for the SDK. AI Programmer Luxoflux Corp October 2002 to November 2003 AI programmer for True Crime: Streets of L.A. Designed and implemented the random crime system. Programmed the random crime enemy AI. Programmed the civil unrest and police chase AI. Designed and implemented the pedestrian system. Programmed the pedestrian AI. True Crime: Streets of L.A. sold over 5 million copies and the random crime missions have been cited as one of the game's best features. Programmer Various Game Companies January 1996 to August 2002 Wrote tools and gameplay code for various game companies. Tools and game code were written in C and C++. Education M.S. in Computer Science. in Computer Science University of Illinois - Champaign, IL 1996 M.S. in Mathematics. in Mathematics University of Illinois - Champaign, IL 1994 B.S. in Mathematics in Mathematics University of Illinois - Chicago, IL 1990 Skills C (9 years), C+ (10+ years), Python (3 years), SQL (1 year), Trading (Less than 1 year), MySQL