Private Tutoring Private Tutoring Validation Engineer, Jr. Python Developer -- BSc Physics Portland, OR Seeking temp/contract or permanent technological or scientific position in the Portland, OR area. Strong skills with linux, python, problem solving, research, software, and hardware. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Private Tutoring September 2006 to Present Private tutoring for mathematics and physics (high school through college level). Software/Hardware Python Test Technician/ Developer Allion USA - Hillsboro, OR January 2017 to March 2019 • Network testing and device characterization using linux, python, and android/uboot systems.  • Automation of testing through custom python programming.  • Creation, characterization, and update through lifetime of bugs in Agile environment.  • Setting up and maintaining linux servers, testing environments. (Debian, Raspbian, Ubuntu) Teacher Huntington Learning Center - Beaverton, OR June 2013 to February 2014 • Taught necessary coursework and testing strategies to students preparing for ACT/SAT  • Taught company's curriculum one on one or with small groups of primary school students  • Tutored one on one in mathematics and physics. Proctor PSI - Chicago, IL June 2011 to May 2012 • Proctor exams for professional licensing.  • Open/close office and verify/orient candidates. Adjunct Faculty Member Indiana University South Bend - South Bend, IN September 2009 to June 2010 • Prepared and conducted short lectures before lab and recitation coursework.  • Clarified concepts through problem solving exercises in small and large groups.  • Collected and graded coursework. Research Assistant Indiana University South Bend - South Bend, IN May 2009 to August 2009 • Refined ultrasonic transducers for PICASSO experiment.  • Created various prototypes in lab/machine shop.  • Built transducers for actual experiement.  • Proposed successful method for increasing signal resolution Research Assistant Indiana University South Bend - South Bend, IN May 2008 to September 2008 Responsibilities  I was funded though the physics department and work study to conduct my own research over the summer. I used a novel idea in string theory to eliminate possible versions of the theory by relating the age of the universe to the volume of string theory's 'extra dimensions'.    Accomplishments  I got to present my research at NCUR, a national undergraduate research conference, in San Rafael, California.    Skills Used  I was able to give different talks, one to highly technical people, and another to the lay person, and was successful at both. Laboratory Assitant NCP Coatings - Niles, MI December 2003 to November 2004 • Developed new coatings in R&D.  • Successfully produced and qualified new formula with government inspector. (ISO9000, MIL-SPEC)  • Characterized group's coatings during production, correcting any issues if found. Radiology Assistant St. Joseph Regional Medical Center - South Bend, IN September 2002 to November 2003 • Provided care for inpatients before, during, and after radiological exams.  • Assisted radiological technologists with exams when necessary Education BS in Physics, Mathematics Indiana University - South Bend, IN 2004 to 2009 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), LaTeX (8 years), Public Speaking (3 years), Academic Research (Physics) (3 years), Industrial R&D (Chemistry & Materials Science) (3 years), ISO9000 compliance (3 years), VPython (1 year), ELMER (GNU Finite Element Analysis Software) (Less than 1 year), Mathematica (3 years), MATLAB (1 year), Windows OS (10+ years), Electron Microscopy (Tunneling) (Less than 1 year), Atomic Absorbtion (3 years), FTIR (Less than 1 year), UV/VIS Spectroscopy (Less than 1 year), Machine Operator (1 year), nMRI (Less than 1 year), X-Ray Spectroscopy (1 year), Ultrasonic Transducers (Less than 1 year), Gas Chromatography (2 years), Mass Spectroscopy (Less than 1 year), pH (Theory and measurements) (Less than 1 year), Python, Git Groups Sigma Pi Sigma May 2008 to Present Physics Honor Society Publications First Observation of 13Li Ground State https://journals.aps.org/prc/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevC.87.011304 2013-01