Founder Founder Founder - Titanium Ventures Reading, MA Data management specialist with over ten years experience. Skilled communicator and problem solver. Motivated self-starter, energetic facilitator. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Founder Titanium Ventures - Reading, MA February 2017 to Present Freelance developer of creative solutions in python programming, data analysis & visualization, data migration.   Corporate technology trainer: provided four-day 32 hour training seminar for Tufts University faculty in Python, Django.  Online teacher's assistant: answered student questions across a collection of online Udemy.com courses including Complete Python Bootcamp, Learning Python for Data Analysis & Visualization, Python for Data Structures, Algorithms & Interviews, and Python & Django Full Stack Web Developer Bootcamp. Python Curriculum Developer Pierian Data / Jose Portilla - Las Vegas, NV March 2018 to June 2019 Developed curriculum, course content (slides, Jupyter notebooks) for  Python for Time Series Data Analysis - Learn how to use Python, Pandas, NumPy,    and Statsmodels for Time Series Forecasting and Analysis  https://www.udemy.com/ python-for-time-series-data-analysis/  NLP - Natural Language Processing with Python - Learn to use Machine Learning, spaCy,    NLTK, SciKit-Learn, Deep Learning, and more to conduct Natural Language Processing  https://www.udemy.com/nlp-natural-language-processing-with- python/  Probability and Statistics for Business and Data Science - Learn how to apply probability and    statistics to real data science and business applications  https://www.udemy.com/probability-and-statistics-for-business-and-data-science/  Interactive Python Dashboards with Plotly and Dash - Learn how to create interactive plots    and intelligent dashboards with Plotly, Python, and the Dash library  https://www.udemy.com/interactive- python-dashboards-with-plotly-and-dash/    Updated course content, Jupyter notebooks for  Python and Django Full Stack Web Developer Bootcamp (to Django 2.0, Bootstrap 4.0)  Complete Python Bootcamp: Go from zero to hero in Python (migration from Python 2 to 3) Document Specialist EMD Millipore - Danvers, MA June 2016 to January 2017 On assignment via Integrated Resources. Built a database and document repository for the Quality Assurance team in Excel. Sourced data from suppliers and internal sources, designed interdependent tables with embedded file links, scripted macros to improve speed and accuracy. Recorded screenshot tutorials, charted key metrics for stakeholders. Subscriber Data Specialist MIT Technology Review - Cambridge, MA October 2015 to November 2015 On assignment via OfficeTeam. Migrated data from several legacy marketing sources into an AWS Redshift data warehouse with a Looker front end. Transformed keycode data to pair incoming records against established table entries. Medical Data Specialist DermDX New England/Aurora Diagnostics - Brighton, MA August 2015 to October 2015 On assignment via OfficeTeam. Performed data entry of patient demographics, ICD-9/ICD-10 billing codes, transcription of doctors' diagnoses. Extensive QA to ensure accuracy against original patient intake forms. Communicated frequently with laboratory staff and pathologists. Science Teacher VARIOUS SCHOOLS AND LOCATIONS - Concord, MA March 2006 to June 2013 Concord Middle School, Concord MA  Tewksbury Memorial High School, Tewksbury MA  Stoneham Middle School, Stoneham MA  Susan B Anthony Middle School, Revere MA  Designed and delivered standards-based classroom instruction in science and mathematics. Education M.Ed. in General Science Cambridge College 2008 BS in Management University of Phoenix 2006 Skills Data Analysis (4 years), Django (2 years), Python (2 years) Links http://titaniumventures.net