IT Engineer Full-Time Consultant IT Engineer Full-Time Consultant IT Engineer New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Engineer Full-Time Consultant IBM - New York, NY Present ? Use IBM Service Desk Ticketing System to analyse, update and solve IT incidents and service requests.  ? Installing Software using SCCM  ? Configuring Domain and DNS, Maping Drives and networking user's PCs, Laptops and printers  ? Partner with the Segment Security team enforcing security standards across all devices (Laptops:   Firewall, full-disk encryption, screen lock. Network: Firewalls, Patching, 2FA, VPN)  ? Use Active Directory to move user's computers to the Logon Server (container)  ? Supporting remote connectivity solutions (Fortinet)  ? Experience supporting end-users, rapidly troubleshooting issues and thinking/reacting quickly to situations.  ? Deploying workstations, setting up new PC's and Mac computers, etc.  ? Experience administering Active Directory – Creating and managing users, security groups, distribution lists, etc.  See less Cisco Network Support Contractor Smartsource Inc., Field Nation Projects:, Royal Communications Consultants - New York, NY September 2017 to June 2019 Wells Fargo contract (1 Month):  ? Worked remotely with Cisco team  ? Installed Skyus DS Modem Driver and attach the antennas to the Skyus 4G Modem  ? Connect Skyus DS 4G Modem to laptop via USB cable  ? Used Skyus Support Tool to verify Signal Strength  ? Run speed test via www.speedtest.net  ? Report Signal Strength Values to your engineer  ? Once the signal is strong and verified as usable by Cisco team  ? Install MX65 in designation location, must be secured in place using tie wraps or double sided tape  ? Connect Skyus 4G Modem to USB port on side of MX65  ? Power up MX65  ? Verify with engineer that 4G Connectivity and MX65 configuration load are successful  ? BMS LAN Migration (completed with assistance of CPG/CBRE representative)  ? Verify local BMS LAN IP Addresses, CPG/CBRE will complete IP remediation  ? Connect BMS Controller to port on Meraki and notified Cisco team  ? Verify with engineer that BMS Devices can be pinged via dashboard  ? Verify with local site contacts that systems have connectivity and report to Cisco team    Chase Bank contract (1 year):  ? Migrated HP Proliant Server for several Bank Branches in the Tri-State area    Long Island National Bank contract (1 month):  ? Installed biometric security devices and software on client's computers    CNA Insurance contract (3 months):  ? Used Service Now to manage configure, troubleshoot, remove, install routers, firewalls, switches, load balancers, modem, voip, desktops, laptops, and tablets  ? Provided a Law Office with the experience required to Troubleshoot/Update: Windows Servers, VMware, PCs, Phones, Software, and the like  ? Migration of IT computers, VOIP phones, switches and re-patch network to new LAN switches.    ? Created a Remote Desktop Connection    ? Connected Laptop to Router Console using rollover cables    ? Completed removal, installation and cabling of new routers for the new Sprint and Verizon circuit    ? Completed activation of Sprint and Verizon circuits    ? Connected wan links to port g#/#/#    ? Validated communication with Call Manager for voice connectivity    ? Validated network connectivity with Call Manager for data connectivity    ? Assisted with Network Applications Services and IP phone installations    ? Provided desktop support, which includes troubleshooting end user computing issues, loading operating systems and special applications like Virtual OS/2    ? Responsible for the installation of desktops, laptops, monitors and telephones within the office.    ? Responsible for desktop/laptop swaps which includes uploading and downloading data and communicating with end user to ensure a seamless change    ? Assist end users with printer installation and provide new hires a hardware and orientation. Setup all conference/training rooms when required    ? Work with office on end user relocations and equipment moves within the office. This includes communicating with to schedule moves, disconnect, and reconnect equipment    ? Works with other areas of IT Services to enhance the efficiency of desktop computing and supporting infrastructure    DSW contract (1 month):  ? Used Service Now to migrate, de-install, install, un-rack, rack Meraki Switches Python Programmer Internship Wells Fargo October 2018 to December 2018 Nested loops  ? Strings  ? Lists  ? Tuples  ? Dictionaries  ? Functions  ? Modules  ? Files I/O  ? Exceptions  ? Classes/Objects Cybersecurity Internship NYU 2017 to May 2018 Writing a MAC changer script  ? Writing a script to discover clients connected to the same network,  ? Writing an Arp Spoofer  ? Writing a file interceptor  ? Writing malware, keylogger and backdoors PHP/Javascript/MySQL/ Android Java Developer/ Computer Repair Technician Self employed July 2012 to July 2016 Created a RESTFUL API Android App to access data from PHP/MYSQL Database Web Server    ? Performed on-site repairs on personal computers and related peripherals. Computer Crime Analyst New York City Police Department 44 Pct/Crime Analysis Unit - Bronx, NY July 2002 to February 2012 Reviewing crime incident data, arrest reports and calls for service submitted by police personnel for the purpose of identifying crime trends through statistical and spatial analysis. The work involves analyzing, categorizing, tabulating and mapping data on crimes and arrests for 44 Precinct reports, intra-departmental reports, preparing presentations to command staff and special assignments. Responsible for improving the quantity and quality of available data. Handling confidential or sensitive information. Does related work as required.  ? Analyzes the linkages and similarities between crimes, offenders, suspects and victims and makes recommendations to Department Administrators on the current trends based upon the analysis of crime data and various research or statistical findings;  ? Reviews, analyzes and categorizes calls for service, crime and arrest data in preparing statistical reports on crimes and arrests occurring in the geographical region;  ? Identifies emerging or existing crime problems and patterns, geographically and through similar offense patterns;  ? Prepares crime related and other maps utilizing Geographic Information Systems (GIS);  ? Inputs and maintains data and other information in computerized records, requiring advanced knowledge of agency procedures;  ? Prepares a variety of studies, reports and related information for decision-making purposes;  ? Conducts research, analysis, and prepares recommendations. IT Helpdesk Analyst NYCDOC Management Information Unit - New York, NY January 2000 to July 2002 Providing helpdesk support and resolved problems to the end user's satisfaction  ? Maintaining network performance by performing network monitoring and analysis, and performance tuning; troubleshooting network problems; escalating problems to vendor.  ? Monitoring and respond quickly and effectively to requests received through the IT helpdesk  ? Monitoring Service Desk for tickets assigned to the queue and process first-in first-out based on priority  ? Modifying configurations, utilities, software default settings, etc. for the local workstation  ? Utilizing and maintaining the helpdesk tracking software  ? Documenting internal procedures  ? Assisting with onboarding of new users  ? Ensuring each workstation has a computer, monitor, keyboard, mouse, hard drive, and any additional specialized equipment  ? Installing test and configure new workstations, peripheral equipment and software  ? Maintaining inventory of all equipment, software and software licenses  ? Reporting issues to the Service Desk for escalation  ? Assigning users and computers to proper groups in Active Directory  ? Performing timely workstation hardware and software upgrades as require IT Helpdesk Analyst JOHN JAY COLLEGE - New York, NY January 1998 to January 2000 Provided IT Helpdesk Support to Professors, Staff and students Medical Data Records Management Air National Guard August 1995 to March 1999 U.S. AIR NATIONAL GUARD Stewart ANG  ? Managed and organized medical records. Mechanic U.S. AIR FORCE, McGuire AFB March 1991 to August 1995 Troubleshoot and repaired vehicles Education Udacity.com in Full Stack Web Developer June 2019 to Present Advanced Professional Diploma School of Professional Studies at New York University - Cybersecurity September 2017 to May 2018 Certificate in Android Programming School of Professional Studies at New York University - New York, NY February 2017 to May 2017 Certificate in AJAX Web Services School of Professional Studies at New York University - New York, NY February 2017 to May 2017 B.S. degree in Computer Information Systems John Jay College May 2000 Skills Bash (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), Cisco (1 year), Data Analysis (Less than 1 year), detail oriented (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Excellent written (Less than 1 year), Java (4 years), Javascript (4 years), MARKETING ANALYSIS (Less than 1 year), migrations (Less than 1 year), MS Office (Less than 1 year), MySQL (4 years), NMAP (Less than 1 year), PHP (4 years), Pivot Tables (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), scripting (Less than 1 year), Statistics (Less than 1 year), Wireshark (Less than 1 year), Security, Networking Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E-4 March 1991 to August 1995