Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Swift • Experienced with Object Oriented Programming, Software Development Life Cycle, Database design, coding and testing of enterprise applications.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Strong experience in using different Python libraries like Pandas, Numpy, Scikit, Scipy, matplotlib, re etc and XVFBrun package on UNIX platform.  • Good experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Jupyter and Sublime Text.  • Experienced in Python modules numpy, matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a various framework such as Django and Flask on Python.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Python programming practices.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment.  • Ability to work on own initiative and also as a team player. Willingness to learn and adopt to new technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly. Work Experience Python Developer Swift - Manassas, VA July 2018 to Present • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created Reports using Jupyter.  • Used Thales asynchronous theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Developed PowerShell scripts to configure the upgraded Exchange environment, migrate users, then monitor and maintain the new environment.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from XML files and MySQL database.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object-oriented concepts-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  Environment: Python, Django, Jupyter, MySQL, XML, GitHub, Panda, Numpy. Python Developer Verizon - Dallas, TX December 2017 to June 2018 • Extensively used Pandas library for the data validation.  • Performed data validation using SQL as per business rules.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python.  • Wrote Python scripts to XML documents and load the data in the database.  • Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from SQL Database with Python.  • Implemented business logic using Python.  • Experience in data analysis using the libraries like NumPy, pandas and matplotlib.  • Data analysis using the NumPy and pandas in the field of scientific computing, designing- data structures and functions for easy access of the data.  • Converted the risk system reporting to PDF.  Environment: Python, Anaconda, Jupyter Notebook, Excel, SQL. Junior Software Developer Justdial Pvt Ltd September 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library. Education Master's in Engineering and Operations Management in Engineering and Operations Management University of New Haven B. Tech in Electronic and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technology University Additional Information Technical skills:  • Operating Systems: Windows and mac  • Languages: Python, C, shell Scripting  • Databases: SQL  • Development tools: PyCharm, Jupyter, Sublime text.