IT Manager/Client Service Manager IT Manager/Client Service Manager IT Manager/Client Service Manager - Collection Specialists, Inc Wayne, PA Work Experience IT Manager/Client Service Manager Collection Specialists, Inc - Lionville, PA 2011 to Present - Manage all aspects of internal computer and data network  - Integrate and maintain a variety of devices used by the company  - Oversee all office management functions  - Assist with human resource decisions  - Supervise all client service activities, maintaining positive relationships  and solving issues as they arise    Grew in my role as an IT professional to accept more and more responsibilities as required in a dynamic small business environment. IT duties include firewall  configuration, physical security, device integration, database maintenance,  and troubleshooting. Perform payroll and accounting duties. Oversee the office management budgeting as well as the IT department budgeting and  purchasing. Years of experience as the lead client support professional, developing and maintaining client relationships, solving problems, and  maximizing profit for both our company and our clients. Python/Javascript Developer Medical Data Systems - King of Prussia, PA 2009 to 2011 Developer of a suite of medical office management and billing software  products    Python/Javascript Developer (2009 - 2011)  - Database routines in SQL and Python  - Python data handling routines  - Front-end web app development (Javascript, PHP, HTML, CSS)    Agile software development environment. Junior programmer involved in various projects. Produced on-time, error free code and became a key member of the development team. Company, however, lost funding and project was  never completed. Office Assistant/Client Service Representative Collection Specialists, Inc - Lionville, PA 2002 to 2009 2002 - 2009)  - Processing account information into specialized software system  - Complete and submit insurance billing claim forms CMS-1500 and UB-92  - Review and troubleshoot account information with clients  - Field incoming calls for both clients and debtors  - General office duties (filing, inventory, etc)    Data entry clerk while a full-time student. Moved into Client Service  department acting as account analyst. As the company expanded more into medical billing also took on duties of insurance biller and troubleshooter. Education Computer Science West Chester University of Pennsylvania Laramie High School - Laramie, WY Additional Information Experienced professional with extensive IT and network administration knowledge. Strong interpersonal skills with considerable support and customer service experience. Ability to deal with problem customers, and provide 24-hour support to clients. Thorough and flexible approach to problem solving.