Spark/ Python Developer, Data Engineer Spark/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Data Engineer Spark developer / Data Analyst / ETL Developer Richmond, VA I am an I.T. Professional with experience in the Mortgage Banking, Auto Finance & Health Care Industries. I offer over 11 years of I.T. experience working with such products as Teradata, Snowflake, Oracle, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Stored Procedures and PL/SQL, Informatica PowerCenter, DataServices Data Integrator, NSK Tandem Mainframe, Perl, PHP, Python scripting languages and a range of other technologies. In addition I am using spark and cloud technologies to perform big data analytics. I am comfortable working in full life cycle development and in participating in code review and code advancement through various environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Spark/ Python Developer, Data Engineer Capital One - Richmond, VA February 2019 to Present I currently write pyspark scripts to perform big data analytics on business operations data from various lines of business. I write the scripts, test them, debug them and advance them thru the various environments. I work on the command line every day and have done so for the past 6 years. I am currently using Aws in my work including utilizing S3 storage locations, EC2 and EMR. I am currently using Snowflake cloud database and SQL Server RDBMS in this work. Data Analyst (Contractor) Wipro / Capital One - Plano, TX August 2018 to Present A?s a contractor for Sage IT Inc. I assisted with the COAF Floga data warehouse migration from teradata, sql server and Oracle to Snowflake on Amazon AWS. My specific contributions included the analysis and development of existing SAP Business Objects reports and SAS reports and recreate the report using Snowflake Sql procedures. This project also included the documentation and testing of the new sql code to ensure 100% accurate data compared to the existing reports. Teradata SSRS Data Analyst III Envolve PeopleCare October 2017 to March 2018 Provided data analysis of healthcare data. Created ad hoc and recurring reports based on end user requirements utilizing the following technology. Teradata, Advanced SQL, Stored Procedures, SSIS, SSRS, Microstrategy. SQL Scripts were in the range of 200 to 500 lines of code. SAP Data Sevices ETL Developer & Production Oncall Support Accenture - Texas Medicaid & Healthcare Partnership April 2012 to August 2017 As a contractor of Avanade / Accenture I perform maintenance enhancements, bug fixes, modifications and expansions to the existing Texas Medicaid data warehouse. The enhancements include performance enhancements, correcting code defects, rebuilding architectures on different platforms, adding additional data feeds into and out of the system. All work was performed using TACL scripts on an NSK Tandem platform, SAP BusinessObjects DataServices Data Integrator 14.2, SQL Server Stored Procedures, Oracle PL/SQL, T-SQL, ANSI SQL. In addition to development of ETL processes I provided 24/7 production support of the data warehouse ETL cycle, including all of its extracts and interfaces inbound and outbound. Informatica ETL Developer Saxon Mortgage Services, a Morgan Stanley Co June 2011 to April 2012 As an employee, I provided the ETL development and maintenance enhancements on mortgage financial data. I worked closely with the Business Analyst to implement ETL solutions. I performed this work using Informatica PowerCenter8.6.1 & 9.1 and Microsoft SQL Server 2008 / 2005.06  In addition to development of ETL processes I provided 24/7 on call support for production down incidents related to Informatica data loads or Informatica data extracts Application Support Technician Saxon Mortgage Services, a Morgan Stanley Co June 2009 to June 2011 As an employee, I provided Third party 24/7 on call application support of business systems. Applications included: Opalis Automation Software ( IT Process Automation) , IBM Sterling Connect::Direct EDI (point-to-point file transfer among Enterprises) , LPS Lender Processing Services , MSP Mortgage Servicing Platform. Application Support Technician Drive Financial Services , Banco Santander January 2009 to June 2009 As an employee, I provided Third party 24/7 on call application support of business systems. Applications included: Opalis Automation Software ( IT Process Automation), IBM Sterling Connect::Direct EDI (point-to-point file transfer among Enterprises), LPS Lender Processing Services, MSP Mortgage Servicing Platform.    Drive Financial Services, Banco Santander  Application Support  January 2009 - June 2009    As an employee, I provided application support for custom C# applications in a financial services environment. I worked on a small team of 3 support engineers and we supported a team of 30 to 40 developers. We investigated all application issues, debugged C# code, worked with SQL Server databases and deployed code to the application environment. The custom applications were used by call center personnel. I participated in a revolving 24/7 on call support. System/Network Administrator Holman Boiler Works, Inc September 2004 to June 2009 Provided Server / Network Administration and support for 4 offices located throughout Texas  Administered multi-server Windows 2003 LAN, 100+ workstations and 100+ end-users  Maintain the availability LAN resources in a multi-domain Microsoft 2003 Server Active Directory environment  Microsoft Dynamics Great Plains Setup and Administration (30 Users)  GP Dynamics SQL Server development, Business Portal Development Proprietor / Partner Tees T-shirt Co July 2002 to August 2004 Completed projects for small businesses including Photoshop mock-ups, website creation, database driven web applications (Perl, Oracle, MySQL, JavaScript, HTML). Additional projects include building data mining web robots with PHP and Perl and automating Excel using VBA and Perl. Office Administrator EST Services - Carrollton, TX May 2000 to January 2002 While working for EST my duties included resource allocation, and time scheduling for the Dallas service branch. (8 technicians) Other duties included accounts payable, cost control, accounts receivable, inventory control, Order and Sales Tracking, Forecasting Sales and Expenses, Profit and Loss Statements, Office Management, Developing Sales and Marketing Strategies, Corporate Sales Representative Education Some college in Basics Our Lady of the Lake College - Richardson, TX Skills SQL (10+ years), MS SQL Server (5 years), Oracle (7 years), SAP Data Integrator (5 years), ETL, Data Analysis, Excel (10+ years), Teradata (1 year), Snowflake db (1 year), Python (2 years), Perl (5 years), Big Data, Ssis, Data Warehouse, Spark (1 year), Aws (1 year) Additional Information I enjoy art, horticulture, music and yoga.