Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Samsonite Mansfield, MA • Over 10+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python.  • Experience in analysis, design, and development, testing, implementation and maintenance of various web applications using Python and Django.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experienced with full Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, Object Oriented Programming, Database Design and Agile Methodologies.  • Experience with Requests, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Experience with automation/configuration management using tools like Ansible, Puppet,Chef and SaltStack.  • Knowledge on Open Stack Environment Implementation and the architecture using API to integrate between multiple utilities (storage, Monitoring, computing, Authentication & Authorization.  • Experience working with notebook technologies like Jupyter and open Source distribution Anaconda.  • Worked with python libraries from Python Package Index (PyPI).  • Experience with Jenkins and Enterprise GitHub. Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Good Experience in Tableau Analytics. Build Dashboards for clients using Tableau.  • Experience in end to end design and deploy rich Graphic visualizations with Drill Down and Drop down menu option and Parameterized using Tableau.  • Worked on Loading and transforming large sets of structured, semi structured and unstructured data using Hadoop, Bigdata concepts.  • Proficient in SQL databases MSSQL Server, MySQL (RDBMS), Oracle DB, Postgres and MongoDB.  • Working experience on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS) Such as EC2, Lambda, ELB,SQS(Queuing Services), VPC and cloud watch.  • Working knowledge on Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Basic understanding of protocols/technologies like HTTP, LDAP, JDBC, SSL, Servlet/JSP, SQL, HTML, XML  • Good knowledge on IBM Websphere Application Deployment and maintenance of an application on Application Server using clusters concept and IBM Tivoli Monitoring.  • Knowledge in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool).  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Familiar with Agile and Waterfall development methodologies. Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.  • Hands on experience with Agile project management tools such as JIRA, Version One  • Installed, setup, and configured Cisco switches for TCP/IP intra-network and wireless access point across the network for the local area network and Wi-Fi.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu Linux and UNIX. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Samsonite - Mansfield, MA June 2017 to Present Description: Samsonite is the worldwide leader in superior travel bags, luggage, and accessories combining notable style with the latest design technology and the utmost attention to quality and durability. We are principally engaged in the design, manufacturing, sourcing, and distribution of luggage, business and computer bags, outdoor, casual bags, travel accessories and slim protective cases for personal electronic devices.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the server module and resolved issues and responsible for its enhancements.  • Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for the database.  • Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries.  • Defined different Django API profiling techniques for faster rendering information.  • Used Ansible, Vagrant, and Docker for managing the application environments.  • Developed Python scripts for testing the car functioning on different services.  • Worked with Splunk for testing the performance and debugging server level problems.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events.  • Developed Restful Micro Services using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on Django and RabbitMQ queues.  • Used Circle CI for continuous integration and delivery platform over GIT.  • Used Django Migrations for designing and expanding of the database.  • Automated most of the daily task using python scripting.  • Involved in the CI/CD pipeline management for managing the weekly releases.  • Worked on Jira for managing the tasks and improving the individual performance.  • Making recommendations to the team in terms of appropriate testing techniques, shared testing tasks.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. GitHub, Ansible, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, Amazon Web Service (AWS), S3, EC2, EBS, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Code, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. Python Developer Catholic Health Initiatives - Lincoln, NE March 2015 to June 2017 Description: Catholic Health Initiatives is a global health service company with 95 million customers around the world and more than 40,000 employees worldwide. As your partner in health, we're available for our customers 24/7 with an expansive network built to help them meet their health goals. We're on a mission to improve our customers' health, well-being, and sense of security with the power of preventive care.  Responsibilities:  • Mainly used Python alongside using various libraries such as Matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network.  • Developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python. Designed test cases and authored test plans.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Python with OpenStack, OpenERP (now ODOO), SQL Alchemy, DJango CMS etc.  • Provide team guidance from agile experience/learning and day-to-day support to the scrum team.  • Configured SiteMinder web agents, Affiliate agents and RADIUS agents to provide federation of web services in the SSO environment.  • Developed website based on Django CMS.  • Developing dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery & D3JS.  • Created and populated digital brochures using Page Turn Pro and built photo galleries on website in the Django CMS and also using Django CMS plugin.  • Configuring SSO for different applications in different domains with Cookie Provider and troubleshooting issues related to them.  • Maintenance and development of a high-traffic and -demand site and platform running on a custom-rolled Django CMS.  • Managing content population and deployments through Django CMS.  • Experience in designing and developing interactive User Interfaces, usability, web and client/server applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Installing new Web Agents on Unix Apache servers and Windows IIS servers for implementing SSO for new applications.  • Experience using Content Management Systems: WordPress and Django CMS plugins.  • Expertise in client scripting language and serve scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON and Bootstrap.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications. Unit testing with JavaScript and node.js.  • Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed and tested HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js that meets accessibility and web browser standards for car dealerships websites.  Environment: Python, Django, Django-cms, SSO, database access, Django-cms plugins, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Agile. Python Developer VISA - Austin, TX December 2012 to March 2015 Description: Visa is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions, and governments to fast, secure and reliable electronic payments. The project deals with accepting both web and mobile payments. This system allows the client or customer to make payments with vault. It focuses on making the payment process easier and more secure.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used Agile methodology for developing application.  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Used Ansible to configure and manage the infrastructure.  • Used AWS Cloud Watch to monitor and store logging information.  • Worked on Docker CE and curl.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC(Inversion of Control), Django Framework and Apache spark handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Used object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Performed database operations and queries using MySQL.  • Worked on JAVA applications.  • Worked on Jenkins for continuous integration to build code and deploy into remote servers.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by configuring and maintaining for continuous integration and for end to end automation for all build and deployments.  • Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using Amazon elastic bean stalk.  • Worked on for processing multiple datasets.  • Responsible for third party tool integration  • Wrote and executed automated test cases with selenium to automate manual testing solutions.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects.  • Used JIRA to assign, track the stories and tasks.  • Worked on GitHub enterprise.  Environment: Python, Django, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Web Services, AWS, S3,Spark, Selenium, RedHat Linux, Jupyter, NumPy, Pandas, JSON. Python Developer Whirlpool Corporation - Stockton, CA September 2010 to December 2012 Description: Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system for Whirlpool. This is a Post sales and Customer feedback and complains management system.  Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using PHP/ Python.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Rewrite existing Java modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Worked on web-scraping the WebPages and used modules like urllib2, Beautiful Soup and pandas.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and loaded the data in database.  • Used Python libraries such numpy, scipy, Matplotlib and pandas  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for existing code  • Created an Test Automation Framework with Selenium for test automation process  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting of web application.  Environment: Python 2.6, Flask web framework, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Spark, Pandas,numpy, scipy, Matplotlib, AWS. Python Developer Dow Jones Market - New York, NY July 2008 to September 2010 Description: The Dow Jones Industrial Average, or simply the Dow, is a stock market index that shows how 30 large, publicly owned companies based in the United States have traded during a standard trading session in the stock market.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD.  • Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, C++.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  • Configuration and installation of MongoDB Servers and Ops Manager in Integration, Test and Prod Environment.  • Worked on Installation and configure MongoDB Cluster nodes on different AWS EC2 instances.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Generated SWIG interfaces to co-ordinate between C++, Java and Python. Used JNI for communication between C++ and Java.  • Implementing complete web SSO features with Identity Federation with SAML 2.0 compliance.  • Responsible for federating with clients using SAML and proprietary SSO.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance.  • Provided maintenance support in production environment.  Environment: Python, Django1.4, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Education Bachelor's