Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Samsonite Mansfield, MA • Over 10+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python.  • Experience in analysis, design, and development, testing, implementation and maintenance of various web applications using Python and Django.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experienced with full Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, Object Oriented Programming, Database Design and Agile Methodologies.  • Experience with Requests, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Experience with automation/configuration management using tools like Ansible, Puppet,Chef and SaltStack.  • Knowledge on Open Stack Environment Implementation and the architecture using API to integrate between multiple utilities (storage, Monitoring, computing, Authentication & Authorization.  • Experience working with notebook technologies like Jupyter and open Source distribution Anaconda.  • Worked with python libraries from Python Package Index (PyPI).  • Experience with Jenkins and Enterprise GitHub. Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Good Experience in Tableau Analytics. Build Dashboards for clients using Tableau.  • Experience in end to end design and deploy rich Graphic visualizations with Drill Down and Drop down menu option and Parameterized using Tableau.  • Worked on Loading and transforming large sets of structured, semi structured and unstructured data using Hadoop, Bigdata concepts.  • Proficient in SQL databases MSSQL Server, MySQL (RDBMS), Oracle DB, Postgres and MongoDB.  • Working experience on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS) Such as EC2, Lambda, ELB,SQS(Queuing Services), VPC and cloud watch.  • Working knowledge on Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Basic understanding of protocols/technologies like HTTP, LDAP, JDBC, SSL, Servlet/JSP, SQL, HTML, XML  • Good knowledge on IBM Websphere Application Deployment and maintenance of an application on Application Server using clusters concept and IBM Tivoli Monitoring.  • Knowledge in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool).  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Familiar with Agile and Waterfall development methodologies. Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.  • Hands on experience with Agile project management tools such as JIRA, Version One  • Installed, setup, and configured Cisco switches for TCP/IP intra-network and wireless access point across the network for the local area network and Wi-Fi.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu Linux and UNIX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Samsonite - Mansfield, MA July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the server module and resolved issues and responsible for its enhancements.  • Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for the database.  • Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries.  • Defined different Django API profiling techniques for faster rendering information.  • Used Ansible, Vagrant, and Docker for managing the application environments.  • Developed Python scripts for testing the car functioning on different services.  • Worked with Splunk for testing the performance and debugging server level problems.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events.  • Developed Restful Micro Services using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on Django and RabbitMQ queues.  • Used Circle CI for continuous integration and delivery platform over GIT.  • Used Django Migrations for designing and expanding of the database.  • Automated most of the daily task using python scripting.  • Involved in the CI/CD pipeline management for managing the weekly releases.  • Worked on Jira for managing the tasks and improving the individual performance.  • Making recommendations to the team in terms of appropriate testing techniques, shared testing tasks.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. GitHub, Ansible, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, Amazon Web Service (AWS), S3, EC2, EBS, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Code, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. Python Developer GUARDIAN LIFE INSURANCE February 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Provide coordinate data for pipeline tie-in locations at facilities  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Working on DevOps platform and have gained experience in specialized areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used python library Beautiful Soup for Web scraping to extract data for building graphs  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on webpages using the data from MongoDB.  • For the large data management used TFS and delivered reliable end-product.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service etc    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Java Script, jQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Linux, Sub Version, Beautiful Soup, NumPy, AJAX. Python Developer VISA - Austin, TX November 2012 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used Agile methodology for developing application.  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Used Ansible to configure and manage the infrastructure.  • Used AWS Cloud Watch to monitor and store logging information.  • Worked on Docker CE and curl.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC(Inversion of Control), Django Framework and Apache spark handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Used object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Performed database operations and queries using MySQL.  • Worked on JAVA applications.  • Worked on Jenkins for continuous integration to build code and deploy into remote servers.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by configuring and maintaining for continuous integration and for end to end automation for all build and deployments.  • Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using Amazon elastic bean stalk.  • Worked on for processing multiple datasets.  • Responsible for third party tool integration  • Wrote and executed automated test cases with selenium to automate manual testing solutions.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects.  • Used JIRA to assign, track the stories and tasks.  • Worked on GitHub enterprise.    Environment: Python, Django, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Web Services, AWS, S3,Spark, Selenium, RedHat Linux, Jupyter, NumPy, Pandas, JSON. Python Developer/Django Citadel - Greenwich, CT September 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed front-end and back-end of the application using python 3 on Django web framework.  • Automating data movements using python scripts, involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  • Used several python libraries like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas.  • Performed Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, WebStorm, IntelliJ and Visual Studio.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Called the RESTFUL webservices to get the JSON object (response) and manipulated the JSON object to display the response in the webpage.  • Involved in redesigning the process, Analysis, coding, testing and implementing.  • Extensively worked on developing UI components using Angular JS and JSON to interact Restful web services.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis, flexible reshaping and pivoting of data sets.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux. Created Several XML Schemas and Developed Stored PL/SQL Procedures and Packages to automatically create and drop table indexes.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing  • Worked in MySQL database on queries and writing stored procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Managed Ubuntu Linux and windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 using open-source chef server.  • Migrated the applications from internal data centre to AWS.  • Skilled in using collections in python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Delivering deliverables on time by working on agile and waterfall methodologies.  • Used Django for framework for accessing various consumer data from various sources. Python Developer CMC - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2008 to September 2010 Hyderabad, India Aug 2008 to Sep 2010  Python Developer    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Responsible for entire data migration from Sybase ASE server to Oracle.  • Migration of API code written for Sybase to Oracle.  • Overlook the migration activity of PL/SQL programs.  • Migration of the PL/SQL code from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's.  • Automation of testing using Python.    Environment: Python, Java, JDBC, XML, PL/SQL, SQL, web services. Education Bachelor's