Owner/Analyst at CalGreen Computing Services Owner/Analyst at CalGreen Computing Services Spring, TX Work Experience Owner/Analyst at CalGreen Computing Services CALGREEN COMPUTING SERVICES 2015 to Present Data, Mapping, SQL Scripting)    • Providing geotechnical services for companies with oil & gas interests:    Clients served: Certis Information Services, Cullins Resources, Fairways Exploration, Holland Land Services, Moses Gulf Coast Holdings, Ocean Geo Solutions, Joseph Exploration and Wavefront.    ? Georeferencing unit plats and digitizing boundaries and other features.  ? Interpreting legal descriptions and creating polygons with attribution for surface and mineral leases and ownership including right of ways in lands located in Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas.  ? Managing oil & gas well headers, well surveys, log curves, completions, production information and royalties.  ? Managing 2D/3D seismic surveys, leads/prospects, infrastructure, mineral/surface interests.  Loading 3D seismic and cultural data to Kingdom  ? Standardized well and well bore naming.  ? Publishing maps and compiling information for prospect play books. Python Programmer, the FerVID Group HALLIBURTON/LANDMARK 2014 to 2014 • Performed install, configuration and customization of Recall/Dropsite for Windows and Linux.  • Automated the installation and patching of Recall by wrapping the BASH patching script in python. GIS Analyst, Richard Wayne & Roberts MURPHY EXPLORATION 2013 to 2014 Provided GIS mapping, analysis, digitizing and reporting services for Eagleford onshore and GOM offshore during employees leave of absence.    Experience continued on next page  GIS Analyst, Oil & Gas http://www.Linkedin.com/in/calvindgreen    Experience continued: GIS Support Analyst, GTS-Geotech Statoil NA and ENI Petroleum 2012 to 2013 • Statoil NA  ? Authored scripts for automated (Evergreen) results used in competitor analysis.  ? Authored script for the automatic generation of prospect information slides in PowerPoint.  ? Created file system scanners to traverse, collect and publish data to SDE/Oracle tables.  ? Published complex label expressions for ArcMap.    2012 - 2013 Statoil NA and ENI Petroleum (GIS Support Analyst, GTS-Geotech)    • ENI Petroleum  ? Maintained GOM and Alaska North Slope lease status & participation maps, ocean bottom infrastructure maps.  ? Created play fairway analysis maps.  ? Updated cultural data in user G&G interpretation packages. Data Manager, Seis-Stream Global BHP PETROLEUM 2011 to 2012 Assisted with the inventory, QC, clean-up, attribution and migration of well header, well survey and log curve data. GIS Support Analyst EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION 2008 to 2011 Geodetics & Cartography,    • Processed incoming positioning data in preparation for inclusion to the corporate database.  • Authored tool (Arc Toolbox/ Python) to generate seismic navigation dataset summaries.  • Ported ArcInfo-AML based Job Tracking program on Linux to the PC environment.  • Maintained Petrel project masters.  • Created structure maps. SQL Developer EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION 2007 to 2008 Authored Oracle SQL scripts to assess and report data quality for the IQM project. Geoscience Technician AMERADA HESS CORPORATION 2006 to 2007 Loaded log curves, deviation surveys, markers, etc. to Geoframe projects. GIS gatekeeper. Geophysical Analyst SANCHEZ OIL AND GAS CORPORATION 2005 to 2006 Loaded and QC'd 2D and 3D seismic, wells and cartographic data to Kingdom and Petra. Geotechnical Analyst, Aquent EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION 2000 to 2004 • Migrated heritage Mobil Microstation data into Exxon's ArcInfo data structures.  • Assisted in Play adequacy and presalt assessments.  • Maintained Geoframe well master and updates to user projects. Software Engineer RAYTHEON 1999 to 2000 Assisted in defining workflows for processing spatial data used for change detection and aerial surveillance for the Brazilian rainforest project SIVAM.    More history available on request Education High school Skills DATABASE (10+ years), MS ACCESS (10+ years), SQL SERVER (3 years), MYSQL (3 years), ORACLE (4 years), ArcGIS Desktop (6 years), SQL (4 years), Python (4 years), vbscript (1 year), Oil & Gas (10+ years), Management (2 years), access (4 years), Microsoft Office (7 years), Quickbooks, Powerpoint Links http://www.Linkedin.com/in/calvindgreen http://resume.calgreenservices.com http://calgreenservices.com Military Service Branch: U.S. Army Signal corp Service Country: United States Rank: Specialist 4 May 1974 to May 1980 Commendations: National Services  Good Conduct  Honorable Discharge