Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - NVIDIA Corporation Santa Clara, CA • 10 years of experience in Web/Application Development in analytical programming using Python with skills in analysis, design, development, testing and deploying software applications.  • Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries).  • Experienced in building tools such as ANT, MAKE, GULP, MAVEN, and JENKINS.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Sound knowledge in spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  • Experienced in working on Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ.  • Experienced with Elasticsearch, Log stash and Kibana (ELK)  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Admirable problem solving and decision-making capabilities which are renowned by associates for quality of work and unconventional solutions.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new Knowledge.  • Expert in maintaining technical documentation for projects.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team.  • Hands-on experiences in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits. Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Made Django web-based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Developed entire frontend and back-end modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Extensive work experience and knowledge of all phases of Software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes Client Interaction, Business Analysis and Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Integration, Documentation, Coding, Testing, Deployment and developing applications utilizing AGILE and SCRUM methodologies.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Experience in Installing, upgrading and configuring RedHat Linux4.x, 5.x, 6.x and 7.x using Kickstart Servers.  • Experienced in implementing Puppet, Chef. Worked on Data-Center operation and migration across UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Proficient in developing Web Services and its related frameworks like: WSDL, SOAP, REST, AXIS and Jersey.  • Very much comfortable in analyzing, debugging, troubleshooting and solving problems and issues in application  • Experience in Creation and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in Solaris and Redhat Linux.  • Experienced in implementing and maintaining an Apache Tomcat /MySQL/PHP, LDAP, LAMP web service environment.  • Experienced in migrate an On-premises VM or Azure Classic VM to Azure ARM Subscription with Azure Site Recovery.  • Hands on experience in configuring and supporting site-to-site and remote access Cisco, IPsec, VPN solutions using ASA/PIX firewalls, Cisco and VPN client. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer NVIDIA Corporation - Santa Clara, CA July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Write scripts using python modules and its libraries to develop programs that improve processing of access requests  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria, created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria, Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.    Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Caliber Home Loans - Irving, TX January 2015 to June 2016 Description: Caliber Home Loans, Inc. is a full-service national mortgage lender and agency direct seller/servicer. Caliber originates loans through various channels and transaction types, including a network of retail branches, wholesale and correspondent lending, and a consumer-direct.  Mission: We are dedicated to preserving the entrepreneurial spirit of a mortgage bank while ensuring the necessary operational controls to originate and service quality loans and create a company with longevity.    Responsibilities:  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval. Having very good experience with BIG DATA  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval. Having very good experience with BIG DATA  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation. Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Deployment of application on Web logic 8.1 for testing and development team.  • Validate test content in Emulation for SoC Display Controller.  • Associated with development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Involved in preparing technical design document.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs. Used Connect SOAP rule to fetch the Webservices.  • Used SOAP UI to test the external service.  • Used JIRA for project tacking and Involved in testing the application.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Version control using GitHub. Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.8, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Richardson, TX November 2013 to December 2014 Description: CVS is an American retail Pharmacy and Health care company. It Includes CVS Pharmacy, CVS Caremark and CVS Specialty. CVS Health provides evidence-based healthcare solutions in the areas of Radiology, Radiation Therapy, Cardiology, Lab Management, Oncology, Pain Management and Sleep Management. Exports Services is a platform composed of over 30 products that range from UI, Web Services, Windows Services, and Database Systems. The day to day maintenance for these platforms entrails building new database scripts, creating new web services, implementing new customers onto the platform, and enhancing existing products.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD.  • Used Rational Rose Enterprise to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams, Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Jython, and Java script.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Implemented front end for third party Web service using JQuery, HTML, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation with Jython.  • Developed the frontend for interaction by using the Django framework.  • Worked with version controlling system CVS and SVN.  • Created Data layer in MYSQL.  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  • Implemented DAO database access objects.    Environment: Java, Python 2.7, PHP, Django, CVS, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MYSQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, UNIX Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux, Web Logic Application Server. Python Developer CA Technology's (India) December 2010 to October 2013 Description: CA Technologies, formerly known as Computer Associates International, Inc. and CA, Inc., is an American multinational publicly held corporation headquartered in New York City. It ranks as one of the largest independent software corporations in the world. The company creates systems software (and previously applications software) that runs in mainframe, distributed computing, virtual machine and cloud computing environments.    Responsibilities:  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used PHP as an HTML embedded scripting language, in front end web development.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.    Environment: MySQL, HTML, Python 2.0, Django 1.4, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Linux, Shell Scripting, PHP, AJAX. Software Developer Zyro Technology's (India) June 2008 to November 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, Testing and Implementation and Support.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were the main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools written in Python.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript and server-side validations using Django.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Designed and developed the UI using HTML, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Rewrite existing modules into Python to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Created database using SQLite, wrote several queries to extract data from the database.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Generated interactive dashboards using tableau.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations.  • Used Jenkins for automation of build process and coordinated deployments across different sites.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Built development environment with JIRA and SVN.    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, HTML5, CSS, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Eclipse, Linux, SVN, MySQL, Apache. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (10+ years), DJANGO (10+ years), LINUX (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years), PYTHON (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks: Django, Spark, web2py, pyramid, Flask, Struts, pylons and CSS Bootstrap    Technologies: HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS  Programming Languages: C, C++, Python-3.5 & 2.7, Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  Python Libraries: Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables, pdb  Version Control: GIT (GitHub), SVN, CVS, Bitbucket.  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB,  IDE's/ Development Tools: Android Studio, Py Charm, and Sublime Text.  Application Tools: Net Beans, Eclipse (SE, EE, Android), Visual Studio, MySQL  Web Services: AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3    Operating Systems: Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SNMP, SMTP, REST.  Deployment Tools: Heroku, Jenkins  Tracking Tools: Bugzilla and JIRA.    Methodologies: Agile, Scrum and Waterfall