python developer <span class="hl">python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> python developer • 4+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, and implementation of various applications.  • 2+ years of experience with multiple technologies like python and shell scripting.  • Experienced with OOPS concepts using python and Linux.  • Good at web framework like django and high level python web frame work.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC), Agile and QA methodologies.  • Excellent in developing with database servers like MySQL.  • Experienced in working with different type of virtual machines like virtual Box and Vagrant.  • Experienced in using LINUX shell commands and command line uses.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Experienced with Unit Testing creating test scripts.  • Experienced in using different modules in python like NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, url, re, pandas data frames, MySQL dB, JSON, XML, CSV etc.,  • Experienced in transforming data structures.  • Experienced in handling with different data types like HTML, XML, JSON etc.,  • Experienced in all the concepts of core python like file handling, exception handling, oops concepts, functions etc.,  • Hands on experience on different versions of windows and Linux platforms. Work Experience python developer SD Softech India Pvt.Ltd August 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Used matplotlib module for easy data visualization  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  Environment: ASP.NET, MS SQL Server 2008, T-SQL, Jasper, SSRS, SQL Server DTS, MS Access, Windows NT/2000, Visio Database Developer ATMECS July 2011 to July 2013 • Advanced-level SQL coding/querying skills.  • Created SQL Data sets and data interfaces for reporting.  • Performed requirement gathering, High level design.  • Created UI screens using HTML/CSS, ASP.NET.  • Installed and setup SQL Server 2008 in the new server.  • Designing backend T-SQL Stored Procedures  • Designed and developed user interactive interfaces.  • Created database triggers to implement complex business rules and automatic background processing.  • Created over 50 Jasper Reports and SSRS reports  • Creating SSIS Packages migration of data across different servers and Other Databases such as Oracle  • Used update strategy, lookups, stored procedures and filter.  • Studying the existing environment and accumulating the requirements by interacting with the clients on various aspects.  • Identification of various Data Sources and Development Environment.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis. Education Bachelor of technology in technology JNTU - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Skills DATABASE (3 years), MS SQL SERVER (3 years), SQL (3 years), SQL SERVER (3 years), ORACLE (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Primary Languages: Python, SQL  • Python Libraries: Pandas, Numpy, urlilib, matplotlib, UnitTest, JSON, CSV, XML, XLS  • Python Framework: Django  • Version Control Tools: Git, Github, SVN, VSS  • Bug Tracking Tools: Jira.  • Database: My SQL, Oracle, postgres SQL, mongo DB  • Operating System: Linux, Windows  • RDBMS: Oracle 11G/10G/9i/8i, SQL Server, DB2, MS Access  • Software Development Lifecycle: Agile Methodology, Scrum framework