Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Cox Auto New York, NY ? Around 10 years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  ? Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networks, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive .com  ? Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  ? Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  ? Very good implementation experience of Object Oriented concepts, Multithreading and Java/Scala  ? Good working experience in maintaining SQL Server Active/Passive cluster environment.  ? Basic understanding of protocols/technologies like HTTP, LDAP, JDBC, SSL, Servlet/JSP, SQL, HTML, XML.  ? Good knowledge on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap.  ? Developed Python scripts to parse XML and auto generation of C++ methods.  ? Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  ? Expert in setting up SSH, SCP, SFTP connectivity between UNIX hosts.  ? Experience in using hadoop in Cloudera and Hortonworks hadoop distributions.  ? Knowledge in Spark Core, Spark-SQL,Spark Streaming and machine learning using Scalaand Python Programming languages.  ? Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  ? Involved in converting Cassandra/Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using RDD's and Scala.  ? Experienced in all facets of full CM process with tools such as SVN, GIT, PVCS, Clear Case, Clear Quest, Perforce, Cruise Control, Jenkins, Bamboo, Chef and Puppet.  ? Experienced in creating AWS IAM and Security Group in Public and Private Subnets in VPC. Created AWS Route53 to route traffic between different regions.  ? Good understanding of storage concepts. Experience in designing and implementing Azure Storage.  ? Experience in writing Terraform scripts for AWS infrastructure.  ? Worked DevOps methodologies and cloud infrastructure automation tools like AWS, Chef by using Terraform.  ? Used Spark API over Cloudera Hadoop YARN to perform analytics on data.  ? Exploring with the Spark improving the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, Pair RDD's, Spark YARN.  ? Used all major ETL transformations to load the tables through Informatica mappings.  ? Strong experience in Big data, Bigdata Integration and Analytics technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, Kafka, Storm  ? Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  ? Sound experience in Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  ? Proficient in memory management, auto pointers, pointer handling, callbacks, function pointers and Functions in C++/C.  ? Thorough understanding of fundamentals of AIX UNIX kernel and file system concepts and SOAP.  ? Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  ? Experience in dealing with Windows Azure IAAS - Virtual Networks, Virtual Machines, Cloud Services.  ? Experience in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid for developing web applications.  ? Extended Testing framework by adding some helper classes and methods  ? Good Knowledge in implementation of Python best Practices (PEP-8).  ? Good at writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MySQL, DB2.  ? Proficient in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, Notepad++ and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  ? Experienced in developing test automation framework with Python scripting& Selenium.  ? Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1), Kubernetes and Mongo DB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DBF net.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, PCI, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, Data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Worked on various operating systems like Windows, UNIX and LINUX.  ? Experienced in Shell Scripting and UNIX commands.  ? Shares expertise throughout the organization and may provide user training for products  ? Strong experience and knowledge of real time data analytics using SparkStreaming, Kafka and Flume. Good experience in writing Spark applications using Python and Scala.  ? Excellent in Business Analytics. Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in team environment.  ? Strong Knowledge of Hadoop and Hive and Hive's analytical functions.  ? Experience Amazon SQS, and Amazon Web Services like EC2, Redshift and S3.  ? Sound experience in working with python editors like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Ubuntu, Wing IDE and Spyder.  ? Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  ? Good experience in Python, Django, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux and Open stack. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Cox Auto - New York, NY April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  ? Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs.  ? Technical experience with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  ? Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  ? Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  ? Used Angular JS in the view layer for some of the view components.  ? Debug application deployments on Multiple-environments.  ? Used Spark API over Cloudera Hadoop YARN to perform analytics on data in Hive.  ? Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  ? Developed Apache spark jobs using Scala in test environment for faster data processing and used spark SQL for querying.  ? Building most of UI Design in Angular 4,5.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for webScrapping.  ? Performance Management & Tuning of AIX /UNIX Kernel.  ? Developed Kafka producer and consumers, Spark and Hadoop MapReduce jobs  ? Peer reviews of the Design and Source Code (C, C++)  ? Developed html views with HTML5, CSS, bootstrap and AngularJS.  ? Created Restful back-end service deployed on Linode cloud VPS's using Flask web framework and SQLAlchemy ORM for data persistence.  ? Strong understanding of various Hadoop Services, Map reduce and Yarn Architecture.  ? Build Data Sync job on Windows Azure to synchronize data from SQL 2012 databases to SQL Azure.  ? Develop Automation Scripts and programming libraries that interface with various devices and deal with repetitive tasks such as configuration and extraction of CLI outputs using Python.  ? Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization / debug at the deployment site.  ? Used Django framework for application development.  ? Created the policy to migrate the logs from AWS S3 to Glacier automatically from S3 bucket  ? Designed and prepared scripts to monitor uptime/downtime of different system components  ? Wrote scripts in Python for Extracting Data from HTML file.  ? Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  ? Developed the consumer-friendly front-end with an easy-to-use OpenCV UI and fast access MongoDB  ? Used Git for the version control.  ? Strong understanding of systems architecture and pattern concepts. C/C++, OOP, STL, Multithreading, High Availability, and Shell scripting, all on a UNIX platform.  ? Developed Application using Java J2EE Platform.  ? Designed and developed components using Python.  ? Scheduling all hadoop/hive/sqoop/Hbase jobs using Oozie  ? Bootstrap and Angular JS for changing styles dynamically, creating animating effects and manipulating DOM structures.  ? Maintenance of the WebSphere Application Servers on different UNIX (AIX and SOLARIS) and LINUX platforms  ? Developed Scala code using specific monad pattern for different calculations based on the requirement.  ? Providing day to day developer support to Azure customers by resolving escalated, complex technical customer issues on the Azure PaaS Services and delivering Azure  ? Developed python scripts in order to migrate information from Oracle to MongoDB.  ? As a Python Developer, I designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  ? Development of real-time multitasking systems using Java.  ? Deployed Cloud with various templates.  ? Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache,Linux, Scala ,JSP, UML, Rational Rose, Multithreading, HTTP, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, ODBC, Angular.js,Pro*C, PVCS, Oracle 9i , C++,Perl, Pandas, Matlab, Eclipse, Kafka,Azure. Python Developer Nike - Portland, OR December 2014 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Instigated user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Utilized Python libraries NumPy and matplotlib.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  ? Developed Spark scripts by using Scala shell commands as per the requirement  ? Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  ? Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Installed, setup, and configured Cisco switches for TCP/IP intra-network and wireless access point across the network for the local area network and Wi-Fi.  ? Hardware installation of patch panels and fiber optic connectivity, hubs, cabling of cat5 and RJ45 connectors.  ? Setup and configured DHCP on Windows 2003 for external wireless clients and mobile PC kiosks within the group.  ? Data analysis using Spark with Scala.  ? Maintaining production critical servers running Solaris UNIX, Linux supporting Oracle database and Web services. Providing 24x7 supports.  ? Installed and configured Windows XP workstations using standard software configuration and configured TCP/IP and network interface cards.  ? Managing internet security and acceleration throughout the network using Microsoft's ISA server.  ? Written functional test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, XML base services, and MongoDB.  ? Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  ? Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  ? Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and matplotlib.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Participated in gathering, planning and implementation of Lane Departure Warning System using C++ and Image source computer vision library for Embedded Linux.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Scraping website using Python Beautiful Soup, and then parsed it with XML.  ? Used third party jQuery-based plug-ins like Data tables etc. Heavily used JavaScript for Form Submit and other UI elements during development.  ? Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  ? Created JIRA Work flows for multiple projects as per business needs.  ? Used Couch base Python SDK to build applications that use Couch base Server.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  ? Bulk data/issues import into JIRA using CSV file templates.  ? Was involved in REST client testing as part of this project  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, jQuery, JavaScript, Scala, PyCharm,HTML, XHTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript,React, C++,Jira, Apache Web Server, Linux. Python Developer Minneapolis, MN September 2011 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes.  ? Created Use-Case diagrams and State diagrams using MS Visio.  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  ? Implemented and tested many features for dashboard using Flask, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  ? Creation and deployment of AWS EC2 environments for proof of concept of design assumptions  ? Introduced to encapsulate the existing structures used by Keymap and help S3 Index/Keymap scale infinitely  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  ? Designing ETL process and creation of ETL design and system design documents.  ? Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Architecting and deploying AWS EC2 and S3-based environments  ? Worked in Python on a SQL database.  ? Maintained high degree of competency across the Microsoft Application Platform focusing on .NET Framework, WCF, Microsoft Azure, and SQL Azure.  ? Delivered presentations on Project Status and Current Open Issues Report to Users, Stakeholders and other involved groups.  ? Conducted weekly meetings with the development and testing team to relay any changed requirements and updates on the development and testing.  ? Played a key role in the planning, testing, and implementing system enhancements and conversions.  ? Worked closely with project manager in handling the whole project.  ? Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  ? Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view.  ? Involved in writing optimization techniques for more accuracy of Macros in C/C++, C and C++ routines and Oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Used GitHub for version control.  ? Used Windows Azure to deploy the application on the cloud and managed the session.  ? Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Worked in an agile development environment.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Flask, Shell Scripting, Azure, AWS, Pandas, PyUnit, OOAD, MS Visio, HTTP, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, C++,JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Schlumberger May 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  ? Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers, and User Defined function.  ? I have also used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  ? Used JQuery for all client-side Java script manipulation.  ? Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  ? Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django. Education Bachelor's