Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Express Scripts New York, NY • Over 8 years of experience as a Data Visualization, Data Exploring, Statistical Analysis on Data and Software Engineer using Python.  • Have work experience with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm and sublime text • Thorough understanding of Python 3.x/2.x basic concepts like Lists, Strings, Indexing, Slicing, Tuples and Dictionaries.  • Familiar with Python Object Oriented concepts like creating classes, constructors, overloading and modules.  • Familiar with NumPy, Pandas and Matplotlib.  • Advanced topics like iterators, generators, dynamic code execution, regular expressions in Python.  • Involved with problem definition, data exploration, data acquisition and visualization, evaluating and comparing metrics.  • Experience with MYSQL.  • Experience in developing applications using socket programming (TCP/IP and UDP).  • Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django.  • Understanding of how to use network protocol analysis using a tool like Wireshark, Win dump.  • Good experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Spyder, Jupyter Notebook, Anaconda and UBUNTU.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using HTML5 framework • Exposure to Agile methodology / SCRUM.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Strong analytical and problem - solving skills, always striving for new knowledge. A person with multi-tasking and organizational skills and high ethical standards.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team.  • Effective communication and business analyst skills worked with end users, architects and DBAs across the enterprise and worked in R&D team which helped with sequencing the project activities by conducting the feasibility analysis and brain storming sessions.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with python programming language.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database Work Experience Python Developer Express Scripts - New York, NY March 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance and monitoring.  • Developed user interface using BOOTSTRAP UI and Angular JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Wrote Lambda functions in python for AWS's Lambda, Kinesis and Elastic Search which invokes python scripts to perform various transformations and analytics on large data sets in AMAZON EMR clusters.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed the front end of the application using HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Developed RESTful services using Django.  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.    Environment: Python 3.4,2.7, Java 1.7, Django 1.9/1.7, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet, Postgre SQL, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo. Python Developer UHG - Minneapolis, MN June 2016 to February 2018 Project Description: UHG is the premier provider of integrated data management services for research organizations, healthcare systems, and funding agencies. We leverage our unique blend of People, Processes, and Tools to consistently deliver uncommon value to our partners and their collaborators.    Responsibilities: • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experience with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS) • Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Added support for Amazon AWS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on PostgreSQL database.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files.  • Worked in Agile and SCRUM methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Involved in Unit testing using Python Unit test framework.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Designed Interface using Bootstrap framework.  • Tracking defects and resolving bugs using JIRA.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement  Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective • Experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player.    Environment: Python, Django, PostgreSQL, Amazon EC2, HTML5/CSS3, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, JIRA. Python Developer SUN TRUST BANK - Tampa, FL September 2013 to May 2016 Responsibilities: • Designed Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, jQuery, Angular, and AJAX.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.    Environment: Python, Django, Go language, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX, NoSQL, MongoDB, MySQL, SOAP, REST, jQuery Python Developer Whole foods - Austin, TX December 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities: • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management • Developed Python application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting • Worked on Python Open stack API's, used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files • Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries sickie-learn and SciPy.  • Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web-based application in OOP concepts.  • Worked on several python packages like Matplotlib, Pillow, NumPy, sockets.  • Worked on ETL Processing which consists of data transformation, data sourcing and mapping, Conversion and loading.  • Worked on design and development of Unix Shell Scripting as a part of the ETL Process to automate the process of loading.  • Worked on ETL tasks like pulling, pushing data from and too various servers.  • Tested and evaluated results for inclusion into software product.  • Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis using R Studio • Automating Email Process, Downloading and uploading the files through Perl Scripting.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.    Environment: Python, Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, Cassandra Python Developer Louisville, KY December 2009 to November 2011 Responsibilities: • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many python bug fixes.  • Worked on integrating Python with Web development tools for developing Web Services in python using XML, JSON.  • Worked on server-side applications with Django using python programming.  • Collaborated within a team using an agile development workflow and widely-accepted collaboration practices using Git.  • Working on python's UNITTEST and PYTEST frameworks.  • Strong Experience with python automation in automating Rest API and UI automation using Selenium web driver using Python.  • Analyzing business requirements, responsible for manually testing functionality and then automation using python.  • Experience using node.js for server-side scripting to create web pages.  • Worked on front end part using Reactjs to design the web pages.  • Testing Restful webservices with JSON payload using POSTMAN and automating them using python framework.  • Created dynamic web pages using node.js before the page is sent to user's web browser.  • Knowledge on SAS, regarding transfer of data between client systems and SSD's.  • As we have vast number of libraries in React, it made us easy to work and make reuse of components that are created only once.  • We used RBAC and ACL to define the business roles for the users to provide them with the access by maintaining the security with their application.  • Stored the data in an Apache Cassandra Cluster Used Impala to query the Hadoop data stored in HDFS.  • Used third party web service API's like google for User registration, App engine, for search and Custom search.  • Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching Hadoop Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts.  • Used Python/ HTML / CSS to help the team implement dozens of new features in a massively scaled Google App Engine web application.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in python and Bash.  • Performed job functions using Spark API's in Scala for real time analysis and for fast querying purposes.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  • Designed and developed scalable Azure APIs using Flask web framework in Python and Integrated with Azure API Management, Logical Apps and other Azure services.    Environment: Python, Django Framework, Azure APIs, Shell Scripting, Spark, ReactJS, Google APIs, SOAP, REST, Hadoop, RBAC, ACL, Pandas, NVMe, Docker, Postman, node.js, MySQL, Selenium, Scala, Flash, AWS, Windows, Unix Jr. Python Developer Indus Software May 2007 to November 2009 Responsibilities: • Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system. This is a Customer feedback and complains management system.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix/VB • Development of Application using Java and Python • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using VUGen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, • parameterizations and other methods. Scripting - web and web services • Data set up using SQL/ORACLE/Teradata.  • Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations • Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web-based logics rather than correlation and parameterization.  • Running load/endurance tests using VUGen, ALM and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analyzing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc.  • Testing in Citrix protocol with scripts and scenario • Execution of batch jobs in Control M, Perfmon and other tools • Scripting and validation of scripts through correlation, parameterization and web-based logic testing (Smoke test, Load test, Endurance) using Controller for a duration further analysis, checking response times, CPU utilizations, memory leaks of servers and other performance characteristics of the website through capturing Perfmon logs and creating PAPAL reports and creating test reports.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization (SEO) to improve the visibility of the website • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code • Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, C+, HP LOAD (VUGEN, Controller, etc.) Putty, SQL, Teradata, SoapUI, ControlM, PerfMon, Django Web Framework, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Education Bachelor's Skills PHP, Javascript, ASP, MySQL, Android Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages: C, Java, Python 3.x/2.7/2.4  Framework: Django Web framework, MVC Framework  Versioning Tools: Git, SVN, CVS  Databases: MySQL  Operating Systems: Windows, Mac, Linux  IDE/Development Tools: PyDev, Pyscripter, PyCharm, Python IDLE  Bug Tracking Tools: Jira and Bugzilla  Integration Tools: Jenkins and web-builder  MS Office Tools: Microsoft Word, Microsoft excel, Microsoft PowerPoint.  Query Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL