Spotfire Developer/ Python Spotfire <span class="hl">Developer</span>/<span class="hl">Python</span> Chicago, IL ? Over 10+ years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, Spotfire, Django, Java, C++, HTML  ? Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, , JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Applications in the Client/Server environment using Java/J2ee in Client-Server, 3-tier and n-tier applications.  ? experience in creating complex Spotfire dashboards and visualizations by using the key concepts filtering scheme, data on demand, Property Controls, text areas in TIBCO Spotfire reports using Tibco Spotfire Professional, Installation of TibcoSpotfire server, Administrative tuning and monitoring the server.  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Involved in Spotfire administration activities including Administration Manager, Library Administration and Administrator console  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  ? Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  ? Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Spotfire Developer/ Python Chicago, IL October 2015 to Present Responsibilities:    • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and Javascript.  • Root cause analysis and fixing the issues with the Spotfire environment.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Deployed TIBCO Spotfire DXP files to UAT/Production environments.  • Created Information links, Parameterization, defined join rules in Information designer.  • Installed Spotfire Server, Database drivers, Hotfixes.  • Used Microsoft sql server to hold Spotfire server database.  • Configured Spotfire server -Set up single sign on.  • Implemented TIBCO Hawk rules for EMS queue and Tibco BW applications  • Configured Tibco BusinessWorks applications in iProcess procedure as per business flow and alsoiProces procedure steps in BW application to work on cases.  • Wrote Spotfire server Backup scripts to take backups regularly.  • Monitored Spotfire server to detect issues with server, LDAP Servers, Network problems, External databases to reduce server downtime and eliminate performance bottlenecks.  Environment: Python, Django 1.3, TIBCO Spotfire 7.7 (Professional clients, Spotfire Web Player, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django, Git, Linux. Spotfire Developer/ Python EL Monte RV Rentals - Los Angeles, CA February 2010 to October 2015 Worked on development and enhancement of El Monte site to include RV and Studio rental options. This includes detail description of RV and availability/Pickup location. Also enhanced the checkout and registration process.  Responsibilities:  • Installed Spotfire Server in Cluster set up, Database drivers, Hotfixes.  • Upgraded Spotfire from 6.5 to 7.  • Used Microsoft sql server for Spotfire server database.  • Configured Spotfire server -Set up single sign on.  • Set up Projects, Groups, Users and set up Permissions.  • Wrote Spotfire server Backupscripts to take backups regularly.  • Monitored Spotfire server to detect issues with server, LDAP Servers, Network problems, External databases to reduce server downtime and eliminate performance bottlenecks.  • Analyzed the Action logs to find what the users are doing, when they login and what work they do.  • Deployed TIBCO Spotfire DXP files to UAT/Production environments.  • Developed Spotfire Views/Vizs for over 30 metrics for Call Handling, Customer Satisfaction and time to resolve metrics (Customer plank), Utilization, Effectiveness, Compliance metrics (Operational plank), Operational Costs, Service Cost metrics (Financial plank), Skillset Development and Employee Satisfaction (Employee Plank).    Environment: Python, TIBCO Spotfire, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django, Unix Python Developer Sunnyvale, CA March 2009 to February 2010 Worked on development of application for design/fabrication and testing of PCB's and electric components.  ? Created UI Screens for initiation and validation of IC/PCB test boards  ? Worked on UI using HTML CSS and javascripts  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  ? Created application in C++ to simulate load on the circuits  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python, C++, PHP, MySQL, Linux, HTML, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django, LINUX Python Engineer KODIAK Networks - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2007 to February 2009 Development of IMPS mobile application(IM) and Implemented a HTTP interface layer, which allows the IMPS application communicating with the internet. Worked on using the W3C Open Source HTTP library to provide the HTTP interface layer for IMPS  Socket Interface Layer: In the process implemented a socket interface layer between the application platform and the base platform using TCP/IP protocols on Linux platform Education Master's in Computer Science DePaul University - Chicago, IL August 2002 to August 2006 Skills DJANGO (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), PYTHON (10+ years), APACHE (10+ years), LINUX (10+ years), Spotfire (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python 2, Spotfire, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django 1.3/1.4  Databases MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, IIS  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows-98/NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista