Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Copart Dallas, TX Experienced Web/Application developer with nine years of diversified experience in analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of various applications from Global Technical Industries. Proficient in a variety of platforms, languages, embedded systems and working in fast pace environment and processes.    CORE QUALIFICATIONS    • Extensive experience in using Python and its frameworks like Django, Flask and Bottle.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database designs and Waterfall, Agile methodologies.  • Web application development using Python, Django, Flask, Jinja and WSGI.  • Proficient in writing Sub Queries, Join's, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions in SQLite3, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB and OracleDB. Also performed data analysis using PL/SQL.  • Experienced with several Python ORM libraries like Django's ORM and SQLAlchemy.  • Well versed with Apache Servers with modPython, AWS and Google Cloud.  • Knowledge of Test Driven Development (TDD), Unit Testing and Integration Testing.  • Very strong experience in writing REST API's and Web services in Python.  • Applied HTML, HTML5, XML, DHTML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON,Angular and AJAX to deliver best user interfaces and components.  • Experienced in ORM programming in converting data between incompatible type systems in OOP languages.  • Expertise includes bash and python scripting wiith focus on DevOps tools.  • Deep understanding of HTTP and RESTful architecture.  • Versatile with GITHUB, Eclipse, JIRA and SVN.  • Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standards.  • Experienced in using Java and its framework SpringMVC.  • Experienced in handling advanced analytical algorithms using R. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Copart - Dallas, TX March 2015 to Present The project was to build a web application to facilitate ecommerce transactions. The project provides or participating in online marketplaces, which process third party business -to-consumer or consumer-to-consumer sales,  RESPONSIBILITIES  • Gathering the business requirement details from the customer and prepare the business document.  • Analyze the business requirements and prepare the technical design.  • Made Django web based applications for financial planning calculations.  • Writing modules in Python to connect to PostgreSQL and doing CRUD operations with PostgreSQL.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Numpy, Scipy for Numerical analysis for Finance data.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Resolving technical issues faced during the development.  • Provide support for SIT and UAT and answer questions raised by testers as a part of project deployment.  • Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, and CSS.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base by maintaining PEP-8 code standards and fix the bugs.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Used GIT for the version control.  • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Bottle, and Bootstrap.  • Implemented RESTful API which returns data from PostgreSQL in JSON format  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ENVIRONMENT  Python, Django, AWS, Pandas, Numpy, Scipy, XML, JavaScript, GitHub, AGILE, SCRUM Windows, Sublime(IDE), PostgreSQL, HTML/CSS, AJAX, Bottle, Shell Scripting and Bootstrap. Python Developer JLL - Chicago, IL October 2013 to February 2015 Working on internal Employee Work Management System application to keep track on the work efficiency of the employees by mapping the number of files they are serving. Application helps to manage the flow of work load properly which in turn helps the organization in distribution of staff. It also track the pending files and disbursement ratio. Participating in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings.  RESPONSIBILITIES  • Work with Python, MongoDB, CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, AJAX, Javascript to develop the web application.  • Used Google Cloud for storage  • Built web journal with framework and Jinja templates.  • Configured two Ubuntu Open LDAP servers with replication.  • Configured Microsoft Active Directory Server and Microsoft Domain Controller  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators.  • Wrote a program to use REST API calls to interface with backup server, and parse output reports of an excel file in python to monitor backup usages.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to phase XML documents and load the data in database.  • Implemented a selectable template structure in Django making it possible to change the HTML layout and design based on site URL and /or domain.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY, Jython and matPlotLib.  • Implemented RESTful API which returns data from MongoDB in JSON format  ENVIRONMENT  Python, Django, MongoDB, CSS, HTML5, Javascript, AJAX, JINJA templates, DevOps MS Active directory, MS Domain controller, Ubuntu Open LDAP Server, XML, wxPython, numPY, Jython, matplotLib. Python Developer Safeway - Pleasanton, CA March 2011 to September 2013 The project is based on Retail Shop Management system. Worked on development and enhancement of Supplier Management Portal including Supplier registration, PO processing, EDI integration and supplier evaluation system.  RESPONSIBILITIES  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and Javascript.  • Developed supplier portal using Python and Django Framework.  • Performed EDI integration using Python.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MYSQL connector and MYSQL database package.  • Profiled Python code for optimization and memory management.  • Used SOAP and RESTful API for information.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Created unit test and regression test framework for working new code.  • Using subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Used Plotly to create python powered dashboard.  • Actively Worked on Comprehensive monitoring architecture for Lodging Operations support application.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of Data.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django improved page load time by 60 times.  ENVIRONMENT  Python, Django, HTML, AJAX, CSS, XML, Javascript, MySQL, SOAP, WATERFALL, SVN, Plotly Python Developer ZS Associates - Thousand Oaks, CA March 2010 to February 2011 The project is to build an application to provide a web view, a Graphical User Interface and basis for various clients to make better business marketing decisions.  RESPONSIBILITIES  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components.  • Designed and developed components using Python and Django framework.  • Used Python scripts for automation of production tasks.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Specification of platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Designed statistical analysis tools using R for data analysis and visualization.  • Was responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing python, best practices and provide guidance in making long term, scalable architectural design decisions.  • Deployed Engineering bill of material (EBOM) on cloud based platform (Heroku) and to automate calculation of items cost from different source of OracleDB.  • Followed Waterfall methodology.  ENVIRONMENT  Python, XML, R, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux, Heroku, Windows Python Developer Ameriprise Financial - Minneapolis, MN February 2009 to February 2010 Worked on Online Payroll System. Payroll ERP is developed to satisfy all the Payroll needs of a corporate. This software is used to aid in automating and providing timely and accurate payroll processing for all types of employees. Payroll software has built-in functions to accommodate the life cycle of payroll processing. This system captures details of different categories of Employees and generates pay slips detailing their income details calculated based on the Organization Budget lines, Income tax details and others.  RESPONSIBILITIES  • Analyze the business requirements and prepare the technical design.  • Implemented business logic in python to prevent, detect and claim the duplicate payments.  • Re-Engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient systems.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django web framework.  • Made Django web based applications for financial planning calculations.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Resolving technical issues faced during the development.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services  • Used Jenkins to deploy Django application and run unit tests.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, and CSS.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base by maintaining PEP-8 code standards and fix the bugs.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Used GIT for the version control. ENVIRONMENT  Python, Django, AWS, Pandas, Numpy, Scipy, Jenkins, XML, JavaScript, GitHub, AGILE, SCRUM Windows, Sublime(IDE), PostgreSQL, HTML/CSS, AJAX, Bottle, Shell Scripting and Bootstrap. UI Developer/Java Developer Chicago, IL March 2007 to January 2009 Worked on project to optimize the Supply Chain Management System. The application provides workforce insight to every department. Ensure product and supply chain readiness which in turn processes speed with a quick view of pending and released changes and items affected. It provides organizational clarity on product data and processes to increase productivity. Secure access to product data with configurable roles and privileges.  RESPONSIBILITIES  • Designed built and maintained efficient, reusable and reliable Java code.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture using Spring framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance.  • Developed framework for JUnit test cases.  • Deployed the application on Tomcat server.  • Used JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, EJB and XML for development and deployment of application.  • Strong Knowledge of web application security and access control.  • Designed and developed webpages using HTML, AJAX, CSS and Javascript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Worked through the entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Gathered user requirements followed by analysis and design.  • Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP to present client side GUI.  • Developed dynamic content of presentation layer using JSP.  • Designed the HTML based web pages for displaying the reports.  • Involved in development of JavaScript code for Client Side Validations.  • Developed JavaScript Objects to work with controllers built in Java classes and JSP files.  ENVIRONMENT  Java, Spring, MVC, JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Web API'S, SQL Server, JavaScript, MySQL, IBM WebSphere, J2EE, JSP, Apache TOMCAT. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), XML (10+ years), AJAX (9 years) Additional Information SKILLS AND EXPERTISE    Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows and Mac  Web technologies JSON, XML, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, XML, AJAX, Javascript, JSP, Spring  Web Frameworks Django, Bottle, Flask, Spring MVC  Languages Python, R, J2EE, SQL, Shell Scripting, UML, Java  Database SQLite3, MYSQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, MongoDB, Cassandra, Jenkins  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Configuration Management GitHub, SVN, CVS.  Software Tools Microsoft Visual Studio, MS Visio, IBM Big Fix, Perforce, Code Collaborator, Tally, Finacle, Joomla, PeopleSoft  Application Servers Apache Tomcat servers, Coherence server, AWS, Google Cloud