Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Ogilvy Edison, NJ Over 8+ years of extensive experience in developing web based applications using software development and design using Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, AWS, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery & Angular Js in diverse domains like Finance, Health, Ecommerce, Telecom, Education etc. Brings a Bachelors in Statistics, Computer Information Systems 2+ years of QA experience working in environment with different types of Software Development Life Cycle and Software Testing Methodology.    Environments: • Good experience in Shell Scripting's Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on Devops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies and Familiar with concepts and devices such routers, switches and TCP/IP protocols and OSI layer.  • Experience in working with AWS (Amazon Web Services) cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, IAM, EBS CloudWatch, AWS Config and AWS S3.  • Provided security and managed user access and quota using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM).  • Build servers using AWS: Importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Infrastructure as a Code Cloud Formation, Terraform, Python Boto3 • Used AWS lambda to run code virtually.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and C++.  • Experienced in using Python, Django, PHP, C++, CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, AJAX and JSON for developing web applications.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Experience in vulnerability analysis, exploit development and Security Configuration Management Solutions.  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude • Work Experience Python Developer Ogilvy February 2018 to Present Environment: Linux, Python, Django, Ansible, HTML, XML, JavaScript, AngularJs, JQuery, MS SQL Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Perl, Pandas, Matlab, Eclipse, Kafka Git, GitHub, JIRA    Responsibilities: • Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypieweb Framework using Git, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications.  • Implemented a GraphQL server as single API endpoint so that anyone can use to easily receive specific data from the survey.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all the AWS services Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  • Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) on Amazon EC2.  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet • Uses of national vulnerability database to analyzed remediation procedure • DPlaced data into JSON files using Python to test Django website.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it and Developed, Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking and Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug, Python Developer McCann, NY November 2017 to February 2018 Environments: Eclipse, Bugzilla, MySQL, AWS, Python, Django, XML, Linux, GraphQL, AJAX, CSS, FileZilla, MySQL, LMS, API's, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Jenkin, Mango DB, JSON, Restful API.    McCann is an American global advertising agency network, with offices in 120 countries. McCann is a subsidiary of the Interpublic Group of Companies, one of the four large holding companies in the advertising industry.  Responsibilities: • Worked closely to with project managers, end users, design team and strategists to develop high traffic e-commerce sites using JAVA and MySQL and to ensure timely completion of deliverable.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Responsible for development, system Integration testing, UAT and deployment.  • Working in team of developers to build and deploy Django, Linux, and AWS.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Created scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Implemented internal APIs to enable more efficient communication between services and the GraphQL server, these APIs are being used for inter-service communication • Involved in developing the REST Web services with Python.  • Worked on JSON, XML data.  • Experience in integrating the Version One and XL Release for SDLC.  • Hands on experience in interfacing with REST API, database objects, Authentication (OAUTH & AUTH) and handling unstructured JSON data.  • Worked on Curl and used JQ to parse the JSON objects.  • Understanding the requirement of VERACODE integration with In-house project code for Vulnerability check.  • Worked on Python 3.x • Involved in system integration testing and user acceptance test (Functional Testing).  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub Enterprise.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprint planning.  • Used Microsoft teams for internal team members • VersionOne Agile tool for story and tasks creation. Python Developer AT&T Inc - New York, NY August 2017 to November 2017 Environments: Python, Django, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, GIT, MySQL, Linux, AWS, Pandas, Eclipse, Perl, Matlab, Shell Scripting  AT&T Inc. is an American multinational conglomerate holding company. AT&T is the world's largest telecommunications company. AT&T is the second largest provider of mobile telephone services and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States, and provides broadband subscription television services through DirecTV; combined with AT&T's legacy U-verse service, this also makes AT&T the largest pay television operator.  Responsibilities: • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python and Django Framework to develop web application.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web based solution.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  • Written Unit, Functional, and Integration test cases for Cloud Computing applications on AWS usingPython with boto library.  • Added support for Amazon Web Services (AWS) S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue.  • Maintaining the project code in Git and pushing the code to GitHub Enterprise by creating new branch.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Used Teams to coordinate with cross functional teams • Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle including design, development, implementation, and testing.  • Automated deployment of all resources related to my work as the Python Developer.  • Django Framework was used in developing web applications to implement the MVC architecture.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Extracted, loaded, and analyzed data to and from Oracle database with Python • Parsed various file formats including XML and JSON and loaded into Oracle database with Python XML and JSON modules • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and JSON.  • Created a Django dashboard with custom UI for end user after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many programs.  • To avoid the reloading of the entire web page to update small portions, AJAX in UI was used.  • Implemented RESTful web services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Developed and tested various dashboard features using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Experience with MySQL database development. Experience writing sql queries. Report writing experience with Excel, PHP and MySQL and JavaScript charting libraries such as HighCharts and D3.  • Wrote and tuned DB2 SQL Queries to perform CRUD operations.  • Perform routine management operations, including configuration and performance analysis for mongo DB.  • Strong in design and development of Webservices using WSDL, SOAP.  • Developed UI event handlers and AJAX callback code using Angular JS to interact with the CDP-GUI Web services. Sr. Python Developer Ditech Financial LLC March 2016 to June 2017 Environments: Linux, Python, Django, Ansible, HTML, XML, JavaScript, AngularJs, JQuery, MS SQL Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Perl, Pandas, Matlab, Eclipse, Kafka Git, GitHub, JIRA  Ditech Financial LLC (rebranded from "Ditech Mortgage" and "Green Tree Servicing" in 2015) is a provider of home loan, loan servicing and refinance products to consumers and institutional partners in the U.S. Ditech announced its re-entry to the national housing market after it "disappeared" from the marketplace for five years during the subprime mortgage crisis in the late 2000s.[2] It also announced a corporate re-branding with its servicing affiliate, Green Tree Servicing, which took place in 2015.  Responsibilities: • Created Restful API's using CodeIgniter and consumed them with AngularJS.  • Used Node.js to run Web pack tasks and build project properly.  • Used AJAX for every page for dynamically displaying the data without a page refresh • Worked on AngularJS Routes using $scope object to create a Views using Controllers. Used JavaScript to make dropdown menus on web pages and displayed part of a web page upon user Request.  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MySQL • Generated Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login and signup of online users • Experience in development test automation • Designed and Implemented a Random Unique Test Selector Package on processing large volume of data using Python and Django ORM • Utilized the existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in required formats.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating & looping through different user defined objects • Designed email marketing campaigns and created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework • Created data base tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and also conducted meetings among peer • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web applications and report on daily progress • Created tools to manage playerbase and their progress.  • Implemented Angular 2-component router for navigation.  • Used AJAX for every page for dynamically displaying the data without a page refresh.  • Responsible for fixing 508 compliance issues, Cross-Site scripting issues.  • Collaborate with team to research and recommend technologies and evaluate existing solutions for future development opportunities. Python Developer LittleCeasers - Detroit, MI March 2015 to March 2016 Environments: Python, Django, Eclipse, Bugzilla, MySQL, XML, HTML, ZEND Framework, Linux, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, FileZilla, MySQL, Microsoft Visual Studios.    Little Caesars is proud of its heritage and is still family owned and operated after more than 55 years in business. As the fastest growing pizza chain in the United States and with significant sales growth throughout the last decade.  Responsibilities: • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MySQL.  • Generated Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login and signup of online users.  • Experience in development test automation.  • Designed and Implemented a Random Unique Test Selector Package on processing large volume of data using Python and Django ORM.  • Utilized the existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in required formats.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating & looping through different user defined objects.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework.  • Created data base tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and conducted meetings among peer.  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web applications and report on daily progress.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript, JQuery • Developed the application using MVC pattern • Extensive experience of Object Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular JS for building UI Widgets and Application logic.  • Done database design with normalized table structure.  • side of application to make it high performance, rich and user friendly.  • Implemented AJAX and JQuery on Front-End to make the web page more dynamic.  • Daily content change migrations as per Business requirement, such as creating forms, updating the existing forms to accept improvised validations.  • Created web based event Calendar and other application related to it for the ease of the user. Python Developer Car Qualifier - Tampa, FL January 2014 to February 2015 Environments: Eclipse, Python, Django,AWS, XML, HTML, LAMP, JavaScript, CSS, Bugzilla, MySQL, VPN, AngularJS, PHP    Responsibilities: • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree and Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git Developed views and templates with Python OOD to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Refactor Restful APIs and Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Implemented client side validation to avoid back and forward between server-client and provide better user experience using AngularJS.  • Utilized Python 3.4 libraries such as numpy, pandas and matplotlib to read data from csv files aggregate and update data.  • Worked under Agile/Scrum environment and handled production rollouts and issues.  • Reviewed requirement documents with the business and development team to understand the architecture and functionality of the application and consolidated these requirements in appropriate modules in Test strategy.  • Collaborated with UI team to create web pages while ensuring visual quality and performance.  • Added support for AWS S3 by creating S3 buckets, managing policies and RDS to host static files into the Amazon cloud.  • Worked with search business team to implement dynamic rule updates to search using elastic search.  • Worked in NoSQL and MySQL database on queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python for Cron jobs.  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python.  • Utilized tools such as Git and Subversion PHP Developer Tiger Optics - Warrington, PA May 2012 to December 2013 Environments: PHP, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, MYSQL, Mantis, Drupal, Photoshop, Adobe Flash Professional, Report Builder, Ubuntu 12.04, LAMP.    Provided Business Analysis, documentation, design, development and management of web products and interfaces for dental insurance processing. Programmed user interfaces which combined System i platform with LAMP stack (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP, Drupal). Led development team in the design and development of a new services/features; specifically, a new insurance line quoting service and online enrollment service, which continue to receive positive customer feedback. Created business user CMS and statistical reporting. Focused security analysis of code for HIPAA compliance. Clients included four state wide Insurance branches and nationwide individual sales. As a team lead, in this fulltime position, directed department efforts and coordinated outside consultants.  Responsibilities: • Building the website from scratch in Drupal.  • Daily content change migrations as per Business requirement, such as creating forms, updating the existing forms to accept improvised validations.  • Built custom theme on Drupal 7 using Mayo and Marinelli as the base theme, configured layout for home page and navigation bars.  • Created forms using Webform module.  • Wrote cross browser compatible based CSS codes for styling the pages and menu bars.  • Used Superfish and Mega menu modules for creating mega menu as the Main Nav.  • Used Backup and Migrate for migration and staging process.  • Customized the website with other contributed modules including tokens, php code, Tiny MCE, Views, and Panels etc.  • Build a content management system with E-Commerce payment gateway options.  • Designed CSS sprite based pages and images for Global locations and UI effects.  • Wrote coding for multiple chained selects using JQuery select and JavaScript.  • Developed JQuery plugin for accordions and customized them meeting the business requirements.  • Used Git as the primary repository for backup and migration of content.  • MySQL databases for Backend using phpMyAdmin.  • Created custom 404 and 504 pages for error reporting.  • Implemented SEO based Drupal modules optimizing the search function all over the site.  • Created widgets for JavaScript based calendar and other functionalities.  • Used Mantis for Documentation and issue tracking.  • Created custom workflows using Maestro module for different users based upon the permissions.  • Implemented node access to filter the permission in depth users. Drupal/PHP Developer Intralinks, NY January 2011 to May 2012 Environments: PHP, MySQL, jQuery, CSS, Zend, Rest Web service, Drupal, Svn, GitHub    As a provider of hosting, domains and online solutions, Interlinks services some of the leading brands in the industry. The diversity of our brands enables us to serve a broad range of customers, while our unique architecture allows us to provide an experience that's tailored to fit their needs.    Responsibilities: • Involved in developing interactive web applications using a dynamic scripting language like PHP.  • Managed front end and applications for Tomcat and Apache web servers to support MySQL database • Used Linux command line environment and other tools related to the LAMP stack.  • Worked on Drupal to create various CMS sites • Used PHP MyAdmin to handle the administration of MYSQL over the World Wide Web.  • Created HTML5 and CSS from Photoshop mockups.  • I learned scalability and core OOPs concepts of PHP • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery Scripting.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties. PHP Developer Creative Web4U - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2007 to December 2010 Environments: PHP, MySQL, LAMP, Zend, Shell Script, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, CSS, XHTML, HTML5.    Responsibilities: • Involved in implementing various design patterns including MVC.  • Extensively worked on Drupal and other CMS theming • Used JQuery slide menu, easing plugin to implement the front end.  • Developed user interface using PHP, bootstrap, Ajax, JQuery, HTML, CSS • Developed compatible User Interface functionality using jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript & other libraries.  • Modified, Improved & corrected html, CSS, is structure • Designed mockups, GUI layouts by using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, CSS floats, cross browser compatibility and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Designed Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) and GUI layouts by using Adobe Dreamweaver CS4 and AJAX.  " Also worked for many international (Australia, Italy & Lebanon) clients remotely as a freelance web developer / designer."   ? Thank you for a having Glance at profile and Reference on Request. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Osmania University 2006