Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - USAA TX • Having 8+ years of experience in systems analysis, design, development and implementation in Client/Server technology using Python, Java/J2EE, Django especially 5 years in Python.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design, and agile methodologies.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web-based and client/server application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, Python, Django, PHP.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Wing IDE and Spyder.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++, and PHP.  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications.  • Experience in using various version control systems like SVN, CVS, GIT, GitHub, Mercurial, and deployment using Heroku.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling, and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP, and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  • Experience in writing reusable and in test-driven development using Unit Testing and Selenium.  • Expertise in using Functional Programming Tools and writing scripts in various operating systems like (Terminal, Bash and PowerShell) Mac, Linux and Windows.  • Good experience in Python, Django, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix, Linux and Open stack.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM. Have good knowledge on Project management tools JIRA, Redmine, and Bugzilla.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2, and MySQL.  • Good Knowledge on Algorithms, Data Structures, OOPS concepts, Flowcharts.  • Experience in creating and using the UML class diagrams.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Expertise in analyzing OLAP and OLTP Databases and worked with Cloud computing as well by using OpenStack.  • Having an experience in dealing with Spark Hadoop. Hands on experience in dealing with huge databases like Teradata.  • Exceptional problem solving and sound decision-making capabilities, recognized by associates for the quality of data, alternative solutions, and confident, accurate, decision making.  • Involved in working with Connection Oriented and Connection Less Protocols (TCP, UDP, DHCP, SMTP, HTTP)  • Experience in analyzing the network traffic by using Wireshark and monitoring the Data Store by using DMZ (Demilitarized Zone)  • Involved in maintaining the Access Control List at firewalls and keep tracking of Zero Day attacks.  • Strong skills in writing technical and functional documents defined by the business requirements.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels Work Experience Sr. Python Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX March 2015 to Present Description: The United Services Automobile Association (USAA) is a Texas-based Fortune 500diversified financial services group of companies including a Texas Department of Insurance regulated reciprocal inter-insurance exchange and subsidiaries offering to bank, investing, and insurance to people and families that serve, or served, in the United States military. At the end of 2015, there were 11.4 million members was founded in 1922 by a group of U.S. Army officers as a mechanism for mutual self-insurance when they were unable to secure auto insurance because of the perception that they, as military officers, were a high-risk group.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long-term architectural design decisions.  • Coded model level validation using Python programming with an emphasis on web security.  • Handled Business logics by backend Python programming to achieve optimal results.  • Used interactive data binding, filters and animation events usingAngularJS.  • ImplementedjQuery to improve the overall usability of the website interface and AJAX functionality to speed up a web application.  • Configured Django to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend of web applications.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Developed web services using Restful technology to support JSON and XML.  • Created new connections through applications for better access to MySQL database and involved in writing SQL & PLSQL - Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors, object types etc.  • Designed RabbitMQ/MangoDB pipeline for routing/storing of email bounce handling records.  • Developed UI pages using HTML, DHTML, Javascript, Jquery, JSP and tag libraries.  • Implemented AJAX to update necessary section of web pages and hence, avoiding the need for reloading the entire web page.  • Developed and tested many features in an Agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Rspec.  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • Deployed the project into Heroku and used GitHub version control system.  • Managed code with unit tests and GitHub.  • Developed Capistrano scripts to automate deployment on various environments.  • Test-driven development with RSpec, capybara, jasmine (for JavaScript), achieving 100% test coverage.  • Involved in writing Rake tasks for updating the database.  • Implemented LDAP authentication using device to integrate with an in-place web seal/TAM infrastructure.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC architecture ofDjango framework and conducted code reviews.  Environment: Python 3.4, Django 1.7, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, UNIX, MVC architecture, AWS EC2, GitHub, Chef, JSON, XML, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, Heroku, Restful API, Rspec, Cucumber. Sr. Python Developer Unicon, Inc 1993 to Present works with corporations, institutions, and organizations to find solutions to meet IT business challenges. Unicon has delivered IT consulting, services, and support since 1993 to corporations, government entities, for-profit institutions, media/content creators, education technology companies, and some of the largest publishing and media houses in the industry. Unicon'spriority is to understand clients' vision for the future as well current challenges. Unicon works closely together with clients to create a roadmap that addresses those challenges while realizing the client's unique vision    Roles &Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery& Ruby on rails.  • Assisted in the reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Ensure high-quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY, and matPlotLib.  • Involved in the environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for ease timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • This project also used other technologies like Jquery for javascript manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end HTML layout.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back-end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end-user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented the progress of a project.  Environment: Python 2.7, city, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, Jquery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache RUBY, Cassandra Python Developer Whataburger - San Antonio, TX April 2013 to February 2015 Description:Whataburger is a privately held, American regional fast food restaurant chain, based in San Antonio, Texas, that specializes in hamburgers. The company, founded by Harmon Dobson and Paul Burton, opened its first restaurant in Corpus Christi, Texas, in 1950. The chain is owned and operated by the Dobson family, along with 25 franchises. As of September 2012, there are over 735 Whataburger stores across the Southern United States region    Responsibilities:  • Worked on development of customer support and complaints registration system. This is a Customer feedback and complaints management system.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix/VB  • Development of Application using Java and Python  • Recording of Scripts (The Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co-correlations, parameterizations, and other methods. Scripting- the web and web services  • Dataset up using SQL/ORACLE/Teradata.  • Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations  • Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web-based logic rather than correlation and parameterization.  • Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM, and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analysing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc.  • Testing in Citrix protocol with scripts and scenario  • Execution of batch jobs in Control-M, Perfmon, and other tools  • Scripting and validation of scripts through correlation, parameterization and web-based logic testing (Smoke test, Load test, Endurance) using Controller for a duration further analysis, checking response times, CPU utilizations, memory leaks of servers and other performance characteristics of the website through capturing Perfmon logs and creating PAPAL reports and creating test reports.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in the database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization (SEO) to improve the visibility of the website  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, C+, HP LOAD (VUGEN, Controller, etc.) Putty, SQL, Teradata, SoapUI, ControlM, PerfMon, Django Web Framework, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python Developer Unicon, Inc - Gilbert, AZ October 2011 to March 2013 Python/Java Developer Unicon, Inc - Atlanta, GA October 2009 to September 2011 Description: Morrison Management Specialists, a member of the Compass Group, is a foodservice company providing food, nutrition and dining services to healthcare and senior living communities through its two operating divisions: Morrison Healthcare Food Services and Morrison Senior Living. The company has more than 1, 200 registered dietitians, 450 executive chefs, and 18, 000 food service workers, as well as approximately 15, 000 client employees who are managed by Morrison.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing Design documents.  • Developed and maintained Python code required for the web application.  • Involved in writing out the Error Handling for different applications.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  • Worked on RabbitMq framework to receive messages from message queuing and printing on the screen.  • Developed UI related pages using XWT Framework by DOJO objects.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping.  • Incorporated Log4j mechanism for proper logging of all stages of the process.  • Created unit testing of the modules created and run integration testing to test the end-to-end flow of the process developed.  • XML messages were used to communicate between web services that are written using SOAP and WSDL.  • Published methods as web methods using JAX-WS and used SOAPUI for testing these web services.  • Developed and deploy the application in JBossapplication server.  • Used Eclipse IDE for code Development along with GIT Hub for managing the code.  Environment: Python 2.7, RabbitMq, XWT, DOJO, Hibernate, unit testing, XML, WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JBoss, GIT, IDE. Java Developer Unicon, Inc - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2008 to September 2009 Description: LinkwellTelesystems (p) limited is an ISO 9001-2000 certified company. Established in the year 1993 with the aim to develop and deliver quality products in the field of telecommunications. Linkwell does research and development on its own at its state of the art facility, which is recognized by the department of industrial and scientific research (DSIR) and has indigenously adopted the latest technology to its products, thus giving its products value addition and a competitive edge.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the full software development lifecycle of the project from analysis and design to testing and deployment.  • Extensively used core Java Collections, Generics, Exception Handling, and Design Patterns for functionality, such as portfolio summary and user information.  • Implemented various database connections using JDBC.  • Designed E-R graphs and relationship among different database tables, Creation tables with low coupling.  • Wrote PL/SQL Queries, stored procedures, triggers and prepared statements.  • Developed graphical user interface by using JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented user input validations using JavaScript and Jquery.  • Developed test cases and performed a unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Built code using Eclipse and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  • Used Agile Methodology for the development of the project.  Environment: Java, Html, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, JDBC, SQL, Junit Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Language Python, C++, C, Core Java, SQL, PLSQL.  Operating System Windows, Linux, Mac OS.  Database My SQL, SQL Server, Oracle and MongoDB.  Web Technologies CSS, HTML, AngularJS, java Script, XML, JQuery, Ajax.  Application Servers Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat.  Frameworks Django, web2py, PyJamas, Jython, CSS Bootstrap.  Design Technologies IBM Rational Rose XDE, Microsoft Visio 2003/2005  Testing Tools JIRA, BUGZILLA, and Selenium.  Protocols UDP, TCP, SMTP, DHCP, ICMP, RIP, VLAN, IPV4 and IPV6.  IDE's/ Development Tools PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Wing-IDE and Spyder.