Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Ogilvy & Mather New York, NY • Around 12+ years of experience as a Web Application Developer and coding using Python, Django, Java, Spring.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experienced with full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Proficient in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Java, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Good experience with design, coding, debug operations, reporting and data analysis utilizing python and using python libraries to speed up development.  • Libraries used: Pandas data frame, network, Beautiful soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, urlib2, JSON libraries and MySQL database for connectivity.  • Hands on experience with Big Data environment on technologies including Hadoop.  • Experience customizing JIRA projects with various schemas, complex workflows, screen schemes, permission schemes, and notification schemes.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good in writing Sub Queries, stored procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL databases.  • Good in developing, implementing, and improving processes by bringing engineering, Operations, QA, and Product Management.  • Experienced with full software development, architecture scalable platforms, database design, etc.  • Excellent knowledge on Predictive Modeling using python and K-mean Clustering for Python Machine Language.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Experienced in designing web pages and Graphical user interfaces, front end layouts on the web by using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap framework, PHP, XML, JavaScript, node JS and Angular JS.  • Developed Web-based applications using Python, Amazon Web Services, jQuery, CSS and Model View control frameworks like Django, Flask and JavaScript.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concept using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Hands-on experience on monitoring tools like Nagios and Amazon Cloud Watch to maintain properly various systems on different environments.  • Created Secured Cloud infrastructure using (VPC) for Staging and Development environment on AWS.  • Developed Cloud Formation templates, also launched AWS Elastic Beanstalk for deploying, monitoring and scaling web applications using different platforms like Java, Docker, Python etc.  • Expertise in AWS Resources like EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Security Groups.  • Working experience with cloud infrastructure of AWS (Amazon Web Services) and computing  • AMI virtual machines on Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).  • Experience in executing Organization DevOps methodology in different situations of LINUX and Windows servers alongside adopting cloud procedures based on Amazon Web Services.  • Involved in integrating the GIT into the Puppet to ensure the integrity of applications by creating Production, Development, Test, and Release Branches.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experience with WAMP and LAMP environments.  • Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience configuring and developing with different Database servers including MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle and Mongo Db.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Experience includes Database Design, Analysis and Development with MySQL, Oracle 10g/9i, SQL Server.  • Proficient with Apache Web Server 2.0, MySQL 5, CVS, UNIX Shell Script, CSS, XML, Firefox 3.5, IE 6 Browser Compatibility Issues, IIS and Linux.  • Hands on experience programming with C++ PYTHON, DJANGO and AJAX technologies. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Ogilvy & Mather - New York, NY January 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Involved in building database Model and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Migrated present Linux environment to AWS/CentOS/RHEL by creating and executing a migration plan per scheduled timeline to complete the migration.  • Optimized the boot time for image-generation and scan data acquisition server by enhancing the startup scripts.  • Increased speed and memory efficiency on the image-generation and scan data acquisition component builds.  • Involved and worked on different Rest API's development by using Flask and Swagger.  • Modeled the application to support bi-directional communication between server and client using Akka HTTP.  • Designed front-end presentation logic using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, AngularJS and Nodejs technologies for front-end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS)& configuration management using chef.  • SQL Naming Conventions Enforcement, Using Python; Stored Procedures created a server job that enforces naming conventions for all SQL objects. Creating a more constant SQL environment.  • Developed Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Created test automation framework from scratch using Cucumber with Page Object Model (POM) using python language. Developed User Stories using python in Behavior Driven Development for User Acceptance Testing.  • Involved in helping the UNIX and Splunk administrators to deploy Splunk across the UNIX and windows environment.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance and monitoring.  • Developed user interface using BOOTSTRAP UI and Angular JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Wrote Lambda functions in python for AWS's Lambda, Kinesis and Elastic Search which invokes python scripts to perform various transformations and analytics on large data sets in AMAZON EMR clusters.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed the front end of the application using HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Developed RESTful services using Django.  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python 3.4,2.7, Java 1.7, Django 1.9/1.7, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet, Postgre SQL, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo. Full Stack Python Developer Canvendor Inc - Austin, TX November 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities: • Developed, tested, and deployed Business feature set in Node.js with Express and MongoDB backend, incorporating APIs.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet and involved in server-side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package to retrieve information.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Automated application deployment in the cloud using Docker technology using Elastic Container service scheduler.  • Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Involved Microservice testing, functional testing using Postman, regression testing using Automated test scripts.  ENVIRONMENT:  Java, Python, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MySQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Jenkins, Unix Shell Scripting, Angular JS, TCP/IP, UDP, SNMP, GIT, Red Hat Linux, AWS. Python Developer DGN Technologies - Sunnyvale, CA March 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities: • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed the ETL mappings in PL/SQL via packages, procedures, functions, views and triggers. Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Developed asynchronous notification mechanism by using Tornado.  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, Data Feeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, and S3 buckets and Virtual Private Clouds (VPC).  • Involved in Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installing and configuring Kubernetes.  • Deployed and monitored Microservices using pivotal cloud foundry, also managed domains and routes with the cloud foundry.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python 2.7, NumPy, SkiPy, Dockers, Pandas, C++, JSON, Oracle DB, MySQL, DB2, PL/SQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django 1.4 Python Developer Tata Elxsi Limited - Sunnyvale, CA August 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities: • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Involved in designing application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python, Celery, mod python, Angular, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, MsSQL server, T-SQL, Jasper, GIT, Reports, RESTful, Linux, Android OS Android 1.5 to Android 6.0  JSON, AJAX. Python Developer Techgene Solutions LLC - Irving, TX March 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities: • Analyzed the Requirements and created a technical specification documents.  • Implemented business logic in Python to achieve reduced unplanned downtime by predicting equipment issues before they occur.  • Managed large datasets using Oracle Database.  • Implemented code to retrieve and manipulate the data.  • Developed the User Interface of the system using HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Worked on Unsupervised and Supervised Learning of Asset Operational Model for Early warning and Performance Optimization.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, AJAX and implementedCSSfor better appearance and feel.  • Used AJAX to modify small portions of the web pages by sending a request to the server avoiding the need of reloading the entire web page.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and store them in data base on a chronological basis.  • Various Analytical algorithms are used to perform analysis on both structured and un-structured data.  • Built Amazon Web Services for data storing and Web journal with Flask framework and Jinja templates.  • Entire Backend and frontend modules are developed in Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Python libraries such as Numpy, Matplotlib etc are used for plotting the results in graphs and for creation of histograms.  • Used Jenkins to deploy the Django application and run unit tests.  ENVIRONMENT:  UNIX, JUnit, SVN, Java, Jenkins, Java/J2EE, REST Services SVN, GIT, Apache Maven, Tomcat, Spring Framework, SOAP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, Bootstrap, XML. MYSQL, DNS, Linux, Windows. Python Developer ZEDVentures Incorporated - San Jose, CA July 2008 to February 2010 Responsibilities: • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web framework.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and Delete.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes prioritize jobs for processing function.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation of the application • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Developed User interface using JSP, Struts tags and HTML.  • Used JavaScript for client side validation and developed the AJAX based modules.  • For Administrators provided Swing GUI to inspect the Database of the customers.  • Designed tables, scrollbars for inspection of the data.  • Performed database operations and queries using MySql.  • Developed some web services using restful.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, Linux, HTML5/CSS3, ElasticSearch, AngularJS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, and Linux. Python Developer West Coast Consulting LLC - Santa Monica, CA September 2006 to June 2008 Responsibilities: • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile) • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, web application testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Sr. Python Developer Ogilvy & Mather •       Involved in building database Model and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  •       Migrated present Linux environment to AWS/CentOS/RHEL by creating and executing a migration plan per scheduled timeline to complete the migration.  •       Optimized the boot time for image-generation and scan data acquisition server by enhancing the startup scripts.  •       Increased speed and memory efficiency on the image-generation and scan data acquisition component builds.  •       Involved and worked on different Rest API's development by using Flask and Swagger.  •       Modeled the application to support bi-directional communication between server and client using Akka HTTP.  •       Designed front-end presentation logic using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, AngularJS and Nodejs technologies for front-end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  •       Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS)& configuration management using chef.  •       SQL Naming Conventions Enforcement, Using Python; Stored Procedures created a server job that enforces naming conventions for all SQL objects. Creating a more constant SQL environment.  •       Developed Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  •       Created test automation framework from scratch using Cucumber with Page Object Model (POM) using python language. Developed User Stories using python in Behavior Driven Development for User Acceptance Testing.  •       Involved in helping the UNIX and Splunk administrators to deploy Splunk across the UNIX and windows environment.  •       Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  •       Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance and monitoring.  •       Developed user interface using BOOTSTRAP UI and Angular JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  •       Wrote Lambda functions in python for AWS's Lambda, Kinesis and Elastic Search which invokes python scripts to perform various transformations and analytics on large data sets in AMAZON EMR clusters.  •       Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  •       Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  •       Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  •       Designed the front end of the application using HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  •       Developed RESTful services using Django.  •       Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  •       Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  •       Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS.  •       Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  •       Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  ENVIRONMENT:   Python 3.4,2.7, Java 1.7, Django 1.9/1.7, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet, Postgre SQL, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo. Full Stack Python Developer Canvendor Inc - Austin, TX •       Developed, tested, and deployed Business feature set in Node.js with Express and MongoDB backend, incorporating APIs.  •       Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet and involved in server-side applications with Django using Python programming.  •       Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  •       Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package to retrieve information.  •       Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  •       Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  •       Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  •       Automated application deployment in the cloud using Docker technology using Elastic Container service scheduler.  •       Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  •       Implemented RESTful Web-Services For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  •       Involved Microservice testing, functional testing using Postman, regression testing using Automated test scripts.  ENVIRONMENT:   Java, Python, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MySQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Jenkins, Unix Shell Scripting, Angular JS, TCP/IP, UDP, SNMP, GIT, Red Hat Linux, AWS. Education Master's in information technology University of New Haven Master's Skills JavaScript (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), Python (10+ years), SQL (10+ years)