Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Morgan Stanley Philadelphia, PA Over 8+ years of IT experience as a Software Engineer, designing, developing, analyzing and testing software along with enhancing performance and dealing with problems in high-traffic multi-tier architectures dealing with both client-side and server-side applications.    • Experience in IT industry with proficiency in Analysis, Design & Development Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development using, Python, Django, Flask and SQL projects.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, AngularJs, Reactjs, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Experienced with Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, Pandas data frame, Matplotlib, python-twitter, urllib.  • Experienced in using Python, Django, PHP, C++, CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, AJAX and JSON for developing web applications.  • Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, PHP) . Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services. Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS) . Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Morgan Stanley - Philadelphia, PA May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like django.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Experience and understanding of React Redux life cycle with components and rendering to DOM.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, UNIX commands.  • Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django, and HTML.  • Having good experience in MEAN Stack (Mongo DB, Express.js, Angular.js, and Node.js) applications.  • Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in both LAMP (Linux, Apache, MY SQL, PHP) Environments.  • Worked with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experience in developing applications in Linux Environments such as Red Hat, CentOS, Ubuntu.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Experience in working with Relational DB (RDBMD) like SQLite, MYSQL Workbench, PostgreSQL and No-SQL database MongoDB for database connectivity.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database.  • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Basic Knowledge on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Basic knowledge on Rest API and JSON Parsing, jQuery and Angular JS  • Experience in building frameworks in Python for Test Automation.  • Excellent Experience in Code Refactoring and Udeploy. Solid ability to code in JavaScript.  • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, JavaScript, XML, jQuery and AJAX.  • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java Full stack web development using Python.  • Having Good Experience in Object Oriented Concepts with C# and Python.  • Extensive experience in using Python/Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  • Experienced on Installation, Integration and Configuration of third party tools, Content Management System (CODEIGNITER, Zend, Laravel, Smarty)  • Good knowledge on IBM WebSphere Application Deployment and maintenance of an application on Application Server using clusters concept and IBM Tivoli Monitoring.  • Good knowledge in various phases of SDLC Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM process including Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Daily Standups, Code review, Pert Chart, Gant Chart.  • Good Experience in error and exceptional handling.  • Proven ability in working with Shell scripting for designing automation framework.  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Familiar with Agile and Waterfall development methodologies.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.  • Managed windows servers which included Active Directory maintenance and support  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools such as JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Maintained customers relationship management databases (MySQL / PostgreSQL)  • Unit testing for the entire code and fixing bugs in unit testing  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.    Environment:  Python, Django, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Web Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Linux, Sublime Text, Jira, Git, Django-cms, SSO, database access, Django-cms plugins, Bootstrap, Agile, Eclipse, Weblogic, GitHub, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Xml, SOA. Sr. Python Developer T-Mobile - Atlanta, GA November 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML. Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used Query and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web  based solution.  • Used python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulationand retrieval.  • Created Business Logic using pythonto create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, intellij IDEA.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Git and GitHub for microservice and continuous deployment.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using pythonon Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with pythonand Django's view controller and templating language to create.  • Responsible for creating company's internal platform called DCAE by using python to develop and test the components.  • Worked with various Python libraries such as Six, Click, Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Used Click package to create the command line interface.  • Designed Docker proof-of-concept using Hashicorp's Nomad and Consul.  • Used Consul for Service Discovery and to create Key-Value pair.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON files and load the data into the Consul.  • Used Python IDE Pycharm for developing the code and performing unit test.  • Involved in development using Python, bug fixing.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.    Environment:  Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Phillips - New York, NY November 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed Python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Implemented a login module for user, registration of the products, placing the order and tracking the order.  • Improving the performance while processing data by modifying functions, queries, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database.  • Worked on Unit testing, Integration testing and Web application testing.  • Code review using GitHub, testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyYAML libraries.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created interactive forms that saved data into database using Django Framework.  • Worked in Test driven development with Behave in Python.  • Creating Behave scripts using Gherkin syntax.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different your defined objects.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Developed views and templates with python3.6.1 and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using pythonon Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Used pythonto extract information from XML files.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using pythonFlask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.    Environment:  Python, Django, Behave, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra, Azure Automation cloud services. Python Developer Liberty Mutual - Chicago, IL May 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Java script, and query to optimize the user experience.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Created a custom CMS built using Django, AWS (Amazon web service), REST, Json with JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX components, worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS.  • Rewrite existingPython/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote pythonscripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used AWstat and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Used JQuery for all client-side Java script manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules usingPythonon Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked on developing a website for a power company. Used to get energy consumption from various customers to store it into a database. Load the data from database to display on customer accounts. Wrote various python modules to perform back-end operations on the data. Developed graphical interface for users to display in their accounts.  • Used Python's pandas and matplotlib libraries to conduct data exploration and visualization of electricity consumption data.  • Created Python scripts for analyzing large quantities of data.  • Maintained detailed databases of energy storage projects and country-specific energy policies.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data, login, and signup of users.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Performed different testing methods like Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.    Environment:  Python, Django, Flashvars, PyUnit, PyQuery, PyQt, HTML, CSS, PHP, DOM, REST, AJAX, JQuery, AWS, GitHub, agile, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer Verizon - Dallas, TX May 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete software life cycle (SDLC) to develop the web application.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PyUnit.  • Designed Database Model for the entire application Creating tables, Views and Stored procedures.  • Coded application using Python, Django in End-to-End Web application development using MVC architecture while front-end is built on CSS3 and HTML5.  • Developing Web Applications with W3C, XHTML, HTML5, PHP, CSS3 standards and using Python, Django.  • Worked on Payment Processing which involves monitoring payments and provide required solutions.  • Implementation of client side validations using JQuery, Angular JS and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level.  • Performed Scalable Computing and data analytics of big data.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C# .NET.  • Experience with Python Libraries such as HTTPLib2, Urllib.  • Used GitHub for Version Control System and deployed the project code into Heroku.  • Worked on XML documents based on XML Schema definition (XSD) with python scripts to load the data to database.  • Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens and the user entry validations.  • Created Database Schema for MySQL Database and involved in designing ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Worked on Restful API's to access the third party data for the internal analysis and statistical representation of that data.  • Worked on Pandas to import the data, Sort and plot the statistical data using histograms.  • Worked on Python Scripts to create Excel and CSV files for documenting the Statistical Reports.  • Used Pandas for Statistical Analysis in the application and Numpy for the advance math functionalities.    Environment:  Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, Ruby, JIRA, TDD, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, AWS, MySQL, Angular JS, Linux, Apache, XML, Git. Software Developer Amazon Inc - Boston, MA May 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Expertise in HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Node.js, JSON and XML using XML Schema Definition (XSD)  • Expertise in developing Bar-plots, Boxplots, histograms, Grouped plots and Scattered plots.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB and relational databases like SQLite, MySQL databases.  • Experience in working with different python packages like Pandas, BeautifulSoup,  Numpy, Matplotlib, SciPy.  • Experience working on with Integrated Development Environments (IDE's) like PyCharm, and Sublime text.  • Experience working on with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Amazon EC2 instances, Load Balancing, Amazon Dynamo DB.  • Experience in developing Web Applications based on MVC architecture using Python, Django, Flask.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django.  • Proficient in implementing PEP8 coding standards for all the projects.  • Worked on Version Control Systems like GitHub, SVN.  • Experience working with Big Data and exposure to distributed computing platforms like Hadoop.  • Experience working with Restful Web Services.  • Proficient in working on with REST and SOAP Web Services handling XML and JSON data.  • Expertise on working with the Networking protocols like TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS.  • Experience working with Issue tracking tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Experience in Agile Development (Iterations and standup meetings etc)  • Used the best practices of test-driven development, SCRUM, continuous integration, refactoring and code standards.  • Have good experience on working with relational databases (RDBMS) and NoSQL Databases like MongoDB.  • Experience working with SSH client on the Linux Operating System.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Behavior Driven Development, Load Testing.  • Worked on writing unit testing code using Py-Test and integrated the test code with the build process.  Environment:  Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Education Master of Science in Science and Engineering University of Florida Skills AJAX (9 years), DJANGO (9 years), PYTHON (9 years), XML (9 years), jQuery (8 years), ASP, Javascript, MySQL, PHP, Android Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Python, C, C++, Python, Ruby, ARM Linux  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JSON, XML, AJAX, jQuery and Bootstrap  Deployment Tools: Heroku, Amazon EC2, Jenkins  Client side: Java Script, HTML, DHTML  Databases: My SQL, Sqlite3, Mongo DB, SQL  Cloud Computing: AWS, EC2, S3  Framework: Django, Flask, Angular JS, Node JS  Testing Tool: JIRA  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS  Operating System: Windows, MacOS, UNIX and Linux  Configuration Management: GitHub, SVN, CVS, Maven.  Tools & IDE: PyCharm, Eclipse, Jupyter Notebook, Sublime Text