Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - WiFi Networks Pvt. Ltd • Having 2 years of experience in PERL & PYTHON Scripting and C in Linux/Unix platform.  • Strong knowledge on design, implementation, development testing on telecom applications.  • Team player with strong analytical, logical and problem solving skills.  • Maintain a positive attitude in the phase of work environment.  • Creation of Linux Cron tabs, data extracts from production data bases.  • Develop clean and reusable code based on programming standards.  • Knowledge and experience in developing and deploying applications in devices.  • Good experience in Linux Platform.  • A team player with strong communication, analytical, logical and problem solving.  • Skills ability to work under pressure situations to meet deadlines.    • I can work efficiently in a group, as well as an individual and take up responsibilities.  • Hard working and interest to learn new technologies. Work Experience Python Developer WiFi Networks Pvt. Ltd June 2016 to Present Developer WiFi Networks Pvt. Ltd July 2016 to May 2018 WIFINETWORKSPvt.Ltd. (July, 2016 -31st May 2018 )  PROJECTS UNDERTAKEN  Project 1  Title: Interactive voice response system (IVRS)  Product Domain: Telecom  Client: Airtel, Vodafone, Tata DoCoMo  Platform: Red Hat Enterprise Linux  Languages/Protocols/DB: C, Perl, Python, MySQL.  Role: Developer  DESCRIPTION  In telecommunications, IVR allows customers to interact with a company's host system via a telephone keypad or by speech recognition, after which they can service their own inquiries by following the IVR dialogue. IVR systems can respond with pre-recorded or dynamically generated audio to further direct users on how to proceed. IVR applications can be used to control almost any function where the interface can be broken down into a series of simple interactions. IVR systems deployed in the network are sized to handle large call volumes.    RESPONSIBILITIES  ? Involved in designing, Development, Implementation of Application Database and Maintenance of IVRS systems for Value added services.  ? Client Interaction.  ? Involved in Database querying.  ? Data backup's & Reports automation using Perl & Python scripts.  Project 2  Title: Caller Ring-back Tone (CRBT) Development  Product Domain: Telecom  Client: Hutch Telecom  Platform: Red Hat Enterprise Linux  Languages/Protocols/DB: C, Perl, Python, MySQL  Role: Developer  DESCRIPTION  A Caller Ring-back Tone (CRBT): Also known as "Audible Ringing Tone" is the song or sound that is heard on the telephone line by the calling party after dialing and prior to the call being answered at the receiving end. The requirement was to develop an application named Python AGI (Asterisk Gateway/Dial plan) which acts as an API interface that takes the customer requests for an activation of RBT service through different modes of channels: IVR, SMS, USSD, WEB/CCI, OBD and IBD. Whenever the customer calls the call land to telecom servers where it checks internally through the API asterisk gateway interface that tune/RBT has activated for each person, fetch the tune details trough Python:DBI interface and plays for the caller until caller hangs up the phone or receiver picks up the call.  RESPONSIBILITIES  ? Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Documentation.  ? Integration and back end functionality.  ? Involved in coding and implementation of new features.  ? Involved in Database querying and project migration.  ? Conducting and coordinating with interface teams to understand and analyze the production issues.  ? Generating requested reports using Python Scripting and MySQL queries.  ? Data backups &Reports automations using Perl & Python Scripting.  Project 3  Title: collect call  Product Domain: Telecom  Client: Etisalat  Platform: Linux based Mobile communication  Languages/Protocols/DB: C, Perl, Python, MySQL  Role: Implementation Engineer, support Engineer  DESCRIPTION  This project deals with user registration and user management.  Collect call corporate works with ussd between the employees of that organization with fixed price.  Using IDB short code or ussd user can interact with system to register and making call's in out of balance.  RESPONSIBILITIES  • Making new or changing existing call flows according to client requirement by changing internal configuration file.  • Automation of report generation using Perl & Python script  • charging  • If any configuration changes or up gradations.  • Handling the database maintenance activities. Education Council Of Higher Secoundery Education Bachlor of Technology - Bhubaneswar, ORISSA, IN Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages PERL, PYTHON, C PROGRAMMING, ASTERISK  Scripting Languages Perl & Python Scripting  RDBMS MySQL  Tools/Utilities/API Linux Command-Line Tool, Crontab  Operating Systems Linux/Unix.    Rating: 1.Wrost 10.Best  Programming Language: Perl[5], Python [5], C [5], MySQL [6], Asterisk[4]