Job Seeker Jersey City, NJ Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience New York University September 2017 to December 2017 Ø Designed a Voicer Changer Application with PyAudio and NumPy.  Ø Utilized FFt to process the data to digit type, and filtered the noise.  Ø Applied IFFt to change the pitch of the voice and played the changed voice with Stream in the real-time. Software Development Engineer Intern, User Analyze Team, Xiaomi May 2017 to August 2017 Ø Created REST APIs using Spring Boot to collect users' smartphone usage information with Java.  Ø Designed database schemas to store users' smartphone usage information and deployed it in MySQL database cluster.  Ø Designed and applied Spark MLlib machine learning model to evaluate users' behaviors to identify their interests to buy electronic equipment.  Ø Called internal Email service to send emails to users with high interest in buying electronic equipment.  Ø Wrote Junit tests using Mockito (mocking frameworks for Java) to ensure 99% code coverage.  Ø Collaborated with product manager to ensure timely delivery of the feature. Python Developer, Load Balancer in a Virtual LAN New York University January 2017 to May 2017 Ø Created a Virtual LAN with Mininet in Linux environment and used Ryu-Controller to connect  those different function parts and the Virtual LAN.  Ø Initiated the Virtual LAN and allocated the property to different nodes with NetworkX.  Ø Used the OpenFlow Protocol to control the package transportation between each Virtual Host.  Ø Found the lowest payload road used DP algorithm to send the package with Network-Monitor. Java Developer, Bookkeeping Application New York University September 2016 to December 2016 Ø Designed a Bookkeeping Application to record and analyze the expense of every month.  Ø Created user-interfaces and assigned each function page to different panels with Swing.  Ø Generated the consumer report for every month with JFreeChart.  Ø Backed-up the expense information to MySQL database with Hibernate. New York University January 2016 to May 2016 Ø Mined 6000+ raw house records from Craigslist using Python web crawler library Scrapy.  Ø Obtained crime data from NYC Open Data and distance data using Google Map API.  Ø Filtered appropriate living places via PySpark considering price, safety and distance in Hadoop.  Ø Utilized Leaflet for R to display the best places to rent in New York based on data. Education M.S. in Electrical Engineering New York University - New York, NY May 2018 Skills PYTHON (Less than 1 year), DATABASE (Less than 1 year), JAVA (Less than 1 year), MYSQL (Less than 1 year), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  Ø Computer Languages: Java, Python, SQL.  Ø Database: MongoDB, Oracle, MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MSSQL.  Ø Technology: AWS RDS/Lambda/EC2/S3, Bash, Spark.  Ø Operating Systems: Linux, Windows, OS X.