Business Analyst, Inbound Supply Chain Business Analyst, Inbound Supply Chain Business Analyst, Inbound Supply Chain - Wayfair LLC Malden, MA Work Experience Business Analyst, Inbound Supply Chain Wayfair LLC - Boston, MA January 2018 to Present Interacted with API and both internal and external data sources to help the team gather operation and business related data.  Utilized Microsoft SQL Server, Python, R and Excel to perform statistical analysis to evaluate and improve the performance of suppliers, carriers and other members in the supply chain system. Visualized large datasets gathered from daily operations to help  identify and correct the data discrepancies.  • Collaborated with the Operation Product Innovation and Engineering team to develop innovative programming tools to help  automate the operation process. Helped the team to identify the scope of the programming tools.  • Supplier Shipment Status Tracking project: Initiated and led the development of Supplier Shipment Status Tracking Report.  Helped the Engineering Team identify the milestones in the shipment process. Built the internal daily supplier shipments status  tracking report using Microsoft SQL Server and R.  • Container Volume Forecast project: Led the monthly Business Volume Forecast project. Utilized SQL to retrieve related data  indicating the potential container volume for each supplier within the forecasted month. Constructed mathematical models for the forecast with preset hypothesis by quantifying supplier's behavior. Performed statistical analysis to justify the hypothesis and re-  adjust key parameters to improve the accuracy of the forecasting model. Quantitative Analyst Intern Poffit LLC - New York, NY September 2017 to January 2018 Studied and implemented GDP predicting mathematical model "GDPNow" to predict short term GDP using commonly available  economic indicators in R.  • Visualized the results using Shiny by providing interactive dashboard which delivers market metrics that help investors obtain  useful business insights for their investment decisions. Summer Python Developer Correlation One, Inc - New York, NY June 2017 to August 2017 Utilized Python and SQL to retrieve data from various APIs and databases. Cleaned and assembled datasets into organized form  based on the statistical and business analysis for the Datathon, a series of data science competitions.  • Utilized Pandas, Numpy, Scipy, Sklearn and Matplotlib libraries of python to perform quantitative analysis on the datasets to extract intellectual business insights to generate open-end challenges used in the Datathon. Education Master of Science in Engineering Degrees University of Pennsylvania - Philadelphia, PA May 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Material Science and Engineering Michigan State University - East Lansing, MI August 2014 Skills PYTHON (3 years), SQL (1 year), EXCEL (Less than 1 year), BASH (Less than 1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  • Programming: Proficient in Python, Java; some C++ Data Analysis and Visualization: R, SAS, MATLAB  • Database Management: SQL (T-SQL) Others: Bash, GAMs, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)