Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Proficient java, javascript & python programmer with 2 years of professional experience and a passion for web applications and big data pipelines New York, NY SUMMARY  Web Development and Data analytics enthusiast with 2 years of professional experience.    Work experience building data pipelines and data analytics libraries.     With proficiency building REST and SOAP APIs/Microservices and experience using cloud technologies like AWS and Google Cloud.     Strong proficiency in java, python and javascript.    I seek full time opportunities in software development.     My skills :    SKILLS  Languages - Java, Python, SQL, JavaScript, Scala, HTML  Frameworks - Apache Airflow, Django, Spring Boot, Spring  MVC, AngularJS  Cloud Services – AWS, Google Cloud Platform  Big Data - Apache Spark, Hadoop, Tableau, Solr, Lucene  Data Processing - NumPy, pandas, matplotlib, keras, SciPy  Devops - Docker, Docker Swarm, Jenkins  Databases - SQL (SQL Server, Postgres, MySQL), NoSQL  (MongoDB, DynamoDB)  Tools & Operating Systems - Linux, Unix, Microsoft Windows,  Eclipse, Android Studio, GIT    CODE EXAMPLES  https://github.com/jayarajsajjanar/mygame  https://github.com/jayarajsajjanar/Distributed-Systems-Group-Messenger-Distributed-key-val-storage-Android    COURSES  Information Retrieval, Machine Learning, Algorithms, Distributed Systems, Computer Vision and Image Processing, Data Intensive Computing, Deep Learning Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Marketing Evolution - New York, NY May 2018 to Present • Built distributed and scalable data pipelines to process 100s of GBs of data per day that fed marketing attribution models.  • Developed programmatic data pipelines and computation workflows in Apache Airflow – an open source python framework.  • Used various AWS services like lambda, EMR, SNS, SES to automate and streamline ETL pipelines.  • Designed and built models and restful services in Django to feed data pipelines and internal web applications.  • Built data processing packages in Apache spark using its functional and relational apis' in python and scala.  • Proficiency working in a containerized environment with docker and docker swarm. Software Engineer (Java, Python, SQL Server, MSBI, C#) Pramati Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2014 to September 2015 • Developed, monitored and deployed ETL packages in SSIS that extracted insurance data from data sources like SQL server & flat files.  • Gathered user requirements and implemented DB, ETL and report changes.  • Demonstrated expertise utilizing SSIS, SSAS, SQL and MDX to format data for custom reports.   • Used C# to customize ETL packages for optimizing time and space consumption.  • Performed Data Analysis and Data validation using SQL queries.  • Undertook performance tuning of SQL queries & stored procedures in SQL Server to provide quickest ETL jobs possible.  • Owned responsibility of a data warehouse that used VBA, SQL Server, SSIS and SharePoint technologies.  • Reduced report delivery time by 50% by automating report generation and email delivery using VBA and IBM Cognos Data Manager. Graduate Student University at Buffalo, The State University of New York - Buffalo, NY January 1901 to January 1901 ClearSky – Rest endpoint Java SpringBoot Docker Microservices 2018  • Developed a Rest endpoint using SpringBoot that accepted weather readings, stored into datastore and provided weather insights.  • Containerized the SprintBoot microservice using Docker and deployed on AWS instance with Java, nginx, tomcat & Jenkins installed.  • Configured Jenkins to run the build job after every commit to the repository and to deploy to the AWS instance.     -----------------------------------   Group Messenger and Distributed key-val storage Java Android 2017  • Implemented a group messenger app with Total & FIFO ordering guarantees in Android using Java.   • Built an Amazon Dynamo style distributed key value storage in a multi-threaded environment in Android.  • Used quorum replication, partitioning & ring based routing to provide simultaneous linearizability and availability.   • Handled read/write operations under continuous & randomized node failures.     -----------------------------------  gQuiz – Scalable REST Endpoint Python GoogleCloud 2016  • Developed a game application in python and provided a RESTful API using Google App Engine & Google Cloud DataStore.   • Deployed the API on the app engine cloud to be able to consume it by Android, iOS and web clients.   • Used Memcache, Edge Caching & AppStats to optimize the app’s performance in terms of latency.     -----------------------------------  Big Data Projects Hadoop R Spark 2017  • Performed data wrangling and performed predictive analysis tasks like regression, classification and clustering on twitter data in R.  • Obtained word co-occurrence on lemmas of Latin text in Hadoop using various design patterns of Map Reduce.  • Analyzed performance gain seen while processing Latin(graph) data in Apache Spark( python) as compared to Hadoop MR.  • Created Tableau visualizations of weather data to gain insights on climate change.     -----------------------------------  Representation Learning: Automatic Feature Engineering for Facial Expression Recognition Python Keras 2017  • Built a Deep Convolutional Neural Network to learn representations and classify images on FER2013 dataset using keras.  • Evaluated regularization techniques like dropout and data augmentation, and optimizers like Adam and Adadelta.  • Achieved an accuracy of 64.92% on test images which had a human accuracy of 65±5%. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University at Buffalo, State University of New York - Buffalo, NY August 2016 to February 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Visvesvaraya Technological University - Bijapur, India June 2010 to June 2014 Skills Python (4 years), Java (4 years), Django (1 year), SQL (4 years), Javascript (4 years), Google App Engine (Less than 1 year), Apache Airflow (1 year), Hadoop (Less than 1 year), Map Reduce (Less than 1 year), Apache Spark (Less than 1 year), MongoDB (Less than 1 year), SQL Server (1 year), Microsoft Business Intelligence Suite (1 year), Hibernate (1 year), Struts (1 year), JAX-RS (1 year), Spring Boot (Less than 1 year), Spring MVC (Less than 1 year), Docker (Less than 1 year), Kubernetes (Less than 1 year), Maven (Less than 1 year), Jenkins (1 year), Amazon Web Services (4 years), SQL Server (1 year), PostgresSQL (1 year), MySQL (1 year), hbase (Less than 1 year), solr (1 year), lucene (1 year), keras (1 year), Linux (4 years), Git (4 years), AWS (EC2, S3, RDS, DynamoDB, EMR) (1 year), REST (3 years), RESTful (2 years), Pyspark (1 year), Docker Swarm (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jayarajc https://www.github.com/jayarajsajjanar https://jayarajsajjanar.github.io/ Certifications/Licenses Udacity's Full Stack Web Developer June 2016 ? Movie Trailer Website – Used HTML, javascript and python to build a website that listed movies, received ratings from users and displayed trailers. Used Bootstrap to make the website responsive and jquery to further beautify it.    ? Scalable game – Built a game application in python. Used Google App Engine and Google cloud DataStore (ndb) to make the app scalable .    ? Item Catalog – Used technologies like Flask_SQLAlchemy, OAuth, Flask framework, HTML inheritance, Template Engine - Jinja2, WTF forms, Sessions and Flash Messaging to build a content management website from the scratch.    ? Linux Configuration – Modified a baseline Amazon EC2 linux server instance to host a web application. Configured the ssh access, user and user permissions, ports and firewalls, apache, python mod_wsgi, postgres and git of the instance.    ? Tournament results - Built a database application to simulate a tournament. Used vagrant and virtualbox; SQLlite and psycopg; Additional Information - Available to join immediately (as on Mar 15, 2018)  - Available to relocate and travel.  - Available for contract positions.