Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Python Developer Roslindale, MA Experience building applications using Flask, Python, JavaScript, SQL, NumPy and Pandas. Automated the process of creation of compelling and actionable interactive reports and dashboards using Python & SQL and visualized them on business intelligence tools. Proven ability to work under pressure in highly demanding situations and deliver projects according to expectations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer CODING TEMPLE - Boston, MA 2018 to Present Responsible for Creating/maintaining complex SQL queries, custom queries, views, and stored procedures.  ? Work on regular transaction processes necessary to maintain operations records and databases.  ? Composed complex SQL queries to extract data from relational database.  ? Understanding, ingesting and querying data using SQL and ensure smooth flow end to end.  ? Python NumPy, SciPy, Pandas packages to perform dataset manipulation.  ? Data Analysis, Data Wrangling and development of algorithms and Python for data mining and analysis.  ? Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects  ? Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript  ? Developed dynamic applications using Python, Flask Frameworks.  Environment: Python, Flask, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, React.js, API, Web Forms, Web Development, PostgreSQL, Pandas Floating Teacher ST. BENEDICT ELEMENTARY SCHOOOL - Natick, MA August 2017 to June 2018 Assisted and acted as lead teacher in elementary classrooms.  ? Developed personalized educational strategies for students.  ? Worked with individual students and small groups.  ? Assisted with Open Houses in the fall, including speaking to prospective families and giving tours of the school. Maine Learning Technology Initiative Assistant, Maine Government Summer Internship Program MAINE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION - Augusta, ME May 2015 to August 2015 May 2015 - August 2015  ? Assisted with implementation of statewide 1:1 technology program.  ? Communicated with educators and administrators.  ? Attended professional development conferences for educators, including the MLTI Student Conference, MLTI Summer Institute, Maine Teacher Leadership Conference, and the Teacher Technology Conference.  ? Collected data and supported the development of financial records.  ? Assisted educators with developing a social media presence and personalized learning network. Education Master of Education LESLEY UNIVERSITY - Cambridge, MA June 2016 to May 2017 Bachelor's in Management and Leadership HELLENIC COLLEGE - Brookline, MA August 2012 to May 2016 Skills HTML (Less than 1 year), JAVASCRIPT (Less than 1 year), PYTHON (Less than 1 year), FLASK (Less than 1 year), NUMPY (Less than 1 year) Awards Dean's List and President's List - Hellenic College Recipient of the Orthodox Christian Mission Center Mission Team Endowment Grant for a trip to Albania Recipient of the Fr. George Scoulas Mission Team Endowment Grant for missions practicum in Albania Served as a Teaching Assistant and helped edit sections of a book for Dr. Antigoni Papadimitriou at Hellenic College Creator of two brochures published across the state of Maine entitled "8 Powerful Uses of Technology for Learning" and "Personalized Learning Networks" to be used for professional development purposes for educators Authored article on Maine Teacher Leadership Conference for Maine Commissioner of Education's Weekly Update (sent to more than 10,000 people every week) Authored one of five chapters in Women of Jamaica Plain: Leadership, Innovation, and Creativity about Pauline Agassiz Shaw through the Women in Leadership Club at Hellenic College, in partnership with the Jamaica Plain Historical Society Class of 2016 Treasurer - Hellenic College, 2012-2016 Additional Information SKILLS    Programming Languages: Python, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, SQL  Web Technologies/Development Frameworks: Flask, Numpy, Pandas, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, BootstrapUI  Database: SQL, MySQL, SQLite, SQLAlchemy, PostgreSQL  Tools/Methodologies: GitHub, Anaconda, Jupyter Notebook, Atom, Agile Software Development, Scrum, Data Modeler, Git, Sublime Text, Postman, Slack  ? Organization; MS Office Suite; Public Speaking; Leadership; Organization; Teamwork; Time Management; Research; Communication; Project Management; Social Media; Teaching    DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS    ? Cryptocurrency Analysis/News Site: Flask application using 4 APIs to get current cryptocurrency data based on currency, displayed the data in a box plot and line plot using Pygal. Designed/created with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Jinja, and JavaScript.  ? Shopping Cart: Shopping cart to display products from a JSON file using JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap, with the ability to add items to a cart that would become visible and display correct totals upon the "Add to Cart" button being clicked for any item.  ? Shoe Store: E-commerce application created using React with the ability to add to a cart and checkout on a separate page. Able to display product cards with an image, price, and description, and allows users to leave a rating for an object and write a review. Created using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, and JSON.