Undergraduate Research in Data Visualisation Undergraduate Research in Data Visualisation Data Analyst Champaign, IL College graduate with a knack for finding trends and gleaning insights from data. Equipped with a strategic and quantitative aptitude along with strong communication skills focussed towards problem solving. Seeking to leverage data analytical skills to improve corporate performance as a data analyst. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Undergraduate Research in Data Visualisation ATLAS Program, College of LAS - Champaign, IL August 2018 to December 2018 Spearheaded gathering data for all related personalities.  Created force-directed visualisations for easy traversal through graph using D3.js  Worked on the gathering information and populating the infobox for all nodes.  Python Developer Cactus Communications, Research and Development Team - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2018 to August 2018 Worked on a Document Markup project that classifies text in academic papers such as Title, Introduction, Abstract.   Classification engine uses tools like NLTK and NER with techniques like Keyword searching, rule based checking, NLP.  Also created Entity Recognition scripts to gather categorised data from client details for further improving performance of sales team.  Cross Platform Mobile App Developer SynapseIndia Outsourcing - Delhi, Delhi May 2017 to July 2017 Created cross platform application for iOS and Android catering to in house use for employees.  Tested and found bugs in applications built by our company for our clients.  Videographer and Data Management Intern University of Illinois Intercollegiate Athletics - Champaign, IL September 2015 to February 2016 In charge of production and management of footage of games and practices for the head coach.   Helped in post processing and collection of data.  Education Bachelor's in Mathematics and Computer Science University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana - Champaign, IL May 2015 to May 2019 Skills Python (2 years), R (1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), Data Analysis (1 year), PHP (1 year), Database Management (1 year), SQL (1 year), Excel (2 years) Links https://sidhant1608.github.io https://www.linkedin.com/in/sidhantj https://github.com/sidhant1608