Full stack developer(React Native) Full stack <span class="hl">developer</span>(React Native) Full stack developer Willington, CT Work Experience Full stack developer(React Native) UConn Extension September 2018 to December 2018 • Used React Native to develop the interface side and Node.js with Express framework to develop the server side.  • Used mysql to control the database and used Restful rules to design the API.  • Used Expo to develop, debug and fix the app and AWS EC2 to deploy the server side and database.  • Used Apple map for navigation of IOS device and Google map for navigation of Android device. Frontend Web Developer YIJIN Technologies June 2018 to August 2018 • Used React.js to develop the News website for a company.  • Used antDesign Framework combined with React.js to develop the front end web page.  • Used React Router to control the URL and fetch to send and receive the information.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, Javascript ES6 to develop advertising page for mobile phone.  • Used CSS3 combined with ES6 to implement the animation effects. PHP Backend Web developer YIJIN Technologies December 2017 to January 2018 • Used PHP to develop official information website for local gallery.  • Used Ajax of JQuery to contact with server side to validate the information before sending them to database.  • Used Mysql to store information in database.  • Used HTML, CSS and Javascript to develop the front end website. Python(Django) Backend Web developer YIJIN Technologies August 2016 to December 2016 • Developed the online learning website for customers to take courses on this website.  • Used Mysql to control the database  • Used Xadmin to replace django admin to build the web for administrator to control the web.  • Used Ajax of JQuery to make the front web contact with the database dynamically.  • Used Django_form to validate the information before sending it to the database. Java Backend Engineer internship Oracle China May 2015 to July 2015 • Used Spring MVC to construct the project and used Maven to control the dependencies.  • Used Mybatis to implement the mapping between the object and mysql database.  • Used Ajax of JQuery to contact with server side to validate the information before sending them to database.  • Used Mysql to store information in database.  • Used HTML, CSS and Javascript to develop the front end website. Education Master in computer science & engineering in computer science & engineering University of Connecticut January 2017 to December 2018 Bachelor in software engineering in software engineering Tianjin University September 2012 to July 2016 Skills DATABASE (5 years), MYSQL (5 years), DJANGO (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), jQuery (2 years), Flask (1 year), Java (5 years), Node.js (3 years), PHP (2 years), React Native (2 years), HTML (5 years), CSS (5 years), React.js (3 years), Nosql (3 years), Git (5 years), AWS (3 years), Maven (3 years), Mybatis (3 years) Links https://github.com/shaoyanyu https://www.linkedin.com/in/shaoyan-yu-a74022172/ Additional Information Skills:  Backend: Python(Django), Python(Flask), Java, Node.js, PHP    Frontend: React Native, Android development(java), IOS development(Objective-C), HTML5, CSS3, Javascript ES6, React.js,  JQuery, Node.js    Database: Mysql, Redis(Nosql)    Tools: Git, AWS, Linux, Maven, Mybatis