Job Seeker To work in the most challenging position with an organization that provides ample opportunities to learn and to contribute. I am flexible & willing to work on any technology. Work Experience Wipro March 2017 to Present Environment: Python, Django, SQL    Description:  Shipping svc provides reliable shipment solution and provides express, ground, Overnight shipping, international shipping services. It mainly focused on order shipment, order tracking, order cancel and ensure product delivery. Shipping svc provides shipping services via FedEx, UPS (united parcel service), and USPS (United States postal service) vendors.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Understanding the project requirements and analyzing the Backlog requirements.  • Developing the required Logic based on the Backlog Requirement.  • Involved in developing/Enhancing the code based on the client requirements.  • Involved in accessing data from database as demanded for a task.  • Involved order tracking and cancellation management.  • Involved promo code validation.  • Coordinating with team in implementation of business logic such as promo code valid or not and apply discounts on order totals depends on flat or percentage.    Project Details: 1 Python Developer Wipro - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN November 2015 to Present Location: Bangalore    • 3.1 Years of work experience in software design, development and implementation of various Web Based Applications using Python, DJango and SQL.  • Through knowledge on Object Oriented Analysis and Design.  • Have a knowledge on 2.x and 3.x versions  • Good Command in developing of web applications implementing MVT architecture using Django Framework  • Used the Django Framework to developing the applications.  • Create Templating in Python to generate Templates and develop Views to create a user-friendly on SQL database and perform tasks on the database server  • Have a knowledge on Database Connectivity Programming  • Experienced in working with various python integrated Development Environments such as Py charm.  • Strong in Business requirement analysis and functional specification design and documentation.  • Hands on experience on designing and developing codes in open source technologies.  Personal Abilities:    • Good analytical abilities, quick learning, and accounting pursuit for increased knowledge of new technologies.  • Good communication skills, gained from working local teams and giving presentations.  • Dependable and motivated person with strong problem solving skills and the ability to work under pressure.  • Ability to handle multiple tasks and work independently as well as in a team.  • Good interpersonal skills, commitment, result oriented, hard working with a quest and zeal to learn new technologies and undertake challenging tasks.    Technical Skills:  Operating System Windows  Language Python  Frameworks Django  Web Technologies HTML, CSS  DBMS SQL    PROJECTS:  Project Details:2    Title: Shipping svc Developer Wipro November 2015 to February 2017 Education B.Sc in Computer Science Sri krishnadevaraya University - Anantapur, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Additional Information Technologies: Python, Django, SQL, Windows    Description:    Team Health Medico is an one physician-patient portal with appointment scheduling, electronic health records a place to manage your health practice easily. we bring doctors and patients together on the same platform so that patients know where to go when they need to find the best doctor and doctors can manage their patients better    Roles & Responsibilities:    • Responsible for getting, understanding the business specs, preparing technical Specs.  • Involved in creating page templates required for the project.  • Making day to day changes in the project according to client request.  • Fixing reported bugs and writing script and Performing code coverage and standardization.  • Drafted design and implementation documentation.  • Interacting with Clients.