Online Char Room, Java Programmer Online Char Room, Java Programmer Actively seeking ful-ltime/contract software developer position, available immediately. Glendale, AZ • J2EE Oracle Certified Java SE7 Programmer with expertise in building applications using Spring Framework, Hibernate framework, Core Java, Design Patterns and J2EE Technologies, heavily worked with Servlet, Java Bean, POJO, JSP, JavaScript, HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, JSON, JDBC, RDBMS, and SQL.    • Experience in Test Driven Development with testing frameworks as JUnit.    • Strong Experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and Design Patterns.    • Versed in RDBMS including Oracle and MySQL.     • Experience with SOA (Services Oriented Architecture), Web Services(RESTful) and HTTP/HTTPs.    • Experienced in Python Programming in web development. Familiar with Cloud application (VPS and Linux Ubuntu OS) and Bigdata/NoSQL database (Redis and MongoDb).    • Experience in Mobile application development using Android Studio.    • Experience in using Source Code Management Tools as GIT/GITHUB and SVN.    • Worked in Agile (SCRUM), Waterfall methodologies. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Online Char Room, Java Programmer May 2016 to August 2016 Designed an Online Chat Room System for group chat with the user information stored in the database. To extend the functionality, the types of users include the administrators and the  common users whom are monitored by the administrators. Utilized C3P0 connection pools to get connection and DBUtils to finish CRUD operation with MySQL Database. Used CSS, HTML,  JSP to design the view page and JQuery to achieve asynchronous page update. Implemented  business logic by JavaBean, XML and Servlet. Android Weather Application, Android Developer February 2016 to May 2016 Designed a Android weather app which is able to synchronize the weather information from  OpenWeatherMap on Android Phones and Tablets. Applied LinearLayout, RelativeLayout for the UI page Layout and utilized TextView, ImageView, Button, ScrollView and ToolBar to  display the view and interact with the users. Utilized media queries to make responsive design for adjusting different size of the user interfaces. EE Developer Social Network Community (EDSNC) Java Developer ASU Research Lab - Tempe, AZ February 2015 to January 2016 The Network Community is aimed at helping the electrical  engineers and electronic fans to share knowledge and help each other. The community provides  different modules including Web forums, blog hosting, IT news, and other services. In Web  forums module, the poster are able to choose the specific topic and describe a problem to seek  advice. In blog hosting module, users are able to post and manage their personal blogs, which may combines texts, images, videos, links and other related media, and interact with visitors at  comments area. In IT news module, users are able to look through daily up-to-time EE news and share their opinions. Movie Recommender System, Python Developer ASU - Tempe, AZ November 2014 to February 2015 Designed a Movie Recommender System and implemented the function including: user register/login/logout, only users have access to the full movie while guests only have access to the movie trailers, comment on movies and edit the posted comments, like/dislike the movie, recommend the movie to the users according to their likes. Utilized python with Google App Engine to implement the main logic. Applied Datastore as users database and jinja2 for promoting the code quality by template inheritance and automatic HTML escaping. Used hashlib library to hash the user password for security. Chose KMeans algorithm to cluster similar movies together and Pearson Correlation Similarity Measure to measure similarity between two users. Education Master's Arizona State University-Tempe - Tempe, AZ 2013 to 2015 Skills Java (2 years), Python (1 year), Javascript (1 year), J2EE (2 years), Spring Framework (2 years), Hiberbate Framework (1 year), XML (2 years), RDBMS (2 years), SQL (2 years), JQuery (1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), CSS (2 years), HTML (2 years), RESTful (1 year), Android (1 year), GIT/GITHUB (1 year), Agile (2 years), JUnit (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Java SE7 Programmer