iOS Developer - Freelance iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Freelance iOS Developer/Team Lead Stratford, CT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience iOS Developer - Freelance Victor Tech - Chicago, IL Present Working remotely with an outside firm based in Chicago, I began work on the Victor App. The app bridges the gap between transitioning veteran an their local community. I worked closely with their team following agile development practices, and developed the app using, SwiftyJSON, Alamofire, Keychain, and Autolayout. iOS Developer - Freelance Freelance - Oddball.io, De-Novo - Los Angeles, CA August 2016 to October 2016 As a freelancer, I worked directly with the oddball development team on their project De-Novo. De-novo was built in swift, its purpose was to match newly minted lawyers with firms around the country. I integrated, firebase chat, firebase database and a swipe controller similar to those found on many "dating app". Work environment was remote, with me in CT and the rest of the team in LA, we practiced Agile development with weekly stand-ups, and 2 week sprints iOS Developer/Team Lead Koda Labs - New York, NY May 2015 to August 2016 My experience is broad from iOS development to web and using frameworks such as Django. I mainly dealt with strict coding aspects and was later moved up to client facing as well as coding duties. My most recent project I was responsible for app development in swift as well as designing the process and backend architecture. iOS Developer Dance Tonight App — Objective-C, Xcode Koda Labs - Dance Tonight - New York, NY First iOS project. This is a social networking app for the dance/EDM crowd. I worked as a junior dev on this project. I was responsible for 100% of the front end based on sketch designs. I worked out the patterns we would use for login, registration, profile settings changes, image uploads and venue/user favoriting. In production now available on iTunes Developer - Html, CSS, JS Koda Labs - Wizard World Gaming Site - New York, NY Wizard World had designed a site that they would use for there new gaming conferences. I took designs provided in a pdf format and transferred it to JS, Html and CSS. I used some bootstrap but mainly did the responsive logic in regular CSS. This was never put into production and wizard went in a different route. iOS Developer - Swift Koda Labs - LED Plus Sales App - New York, NY Led Plus Sales App ?— ?Swift, Xcode  This was a sales app for a client. The difficulties in this were how we would control the flow of data between a completed sale, new sale and open sale. The pricing model also dictated that pricing and zoning should remain dynamic through the backend. This was accomplished through carefully designing the API calls as well as data persistence on front end. I worked closely with our backend engineer to build the architecture I designed for a sale going though. Developer — Html, CSS, JS, jQuery, Django, Python Koda Labs - Open Up Site - New York, NY This site was responsive and the portal for users to register for the openup browsers I also created. The landing page was based off a sketch file with the logins being forms that fed through an api to our Django backend. The Django backend could also be accessed through the main site. On the Django backend I used csv uploads to upload keywords used for backend filtering, google charts, csv downloads as well as standard password updates and admin creation. Education Electrical Engineering University of Connecticut - Storrs, CT January 2009 to June 2013 Skills DJANGO (1 year), IOS (2 years), CSS (1 year), HTML (1 year), OBJECTIVE-C (1 year), Swift (2 years) Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Corporal 2004 to 2008 Additional Information iOS/ Web Developer - I am driven to solve problems and create products that fill a need; while learning new technology and becoming more proficient in my skill set.