Volunteer Web Developer Volunteer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Volunteer Web Developer I am actively seeking for a full-time job in software development and web application.  > Solid programming skills on Python and C for 2 years, experience on Java, PHP, HTML.  > Learned data structure and algorithm for 2 years.  > Experience on web application and network security for 1 year.  > Strong ability in the field of operating system, computer network, including L2/L3 protocols. Work Experience Volunteer Web Developer ABCstay.com - New York, NY January 2016 to February 2016 Optimized a house renting online website with PHP, MySQL, CSS and Wordpress.  ? Reduce homepage search time by 30% and improved search functions by rewriting plugin.  ? Fixed and implemented 8 more functions around search, reservation and contact parts. Python Web Programmer, New York University Personal Blog Website September 2015 to December 2015 Developed an event-driven asynchronous IO backend with Python.  ? First loading time less than 2s, multiple access and high performance using one single-thread.  ? Deployed it on an AWS EC2 instance using Nginx as a proxy and Supervisor for process control. Network Security Lab, New York University August 2015 to November 2015 A firm grasp on network security techniques used and foundation of issues involved in SSL, IPsec, Firewalls, and intrusion detection system.  ? Lab experiences on making ARP spoofing, MITM attack, Dos attack, SSL defeating with Python script.  ? 10+ L2/L3 protocols testing labs, including UDP/TCP, LAN switching, OSPF/RIP and IP Multicast. Userspace, C Programmer, New York University Virtual File System February 2015 to April 2015 Implemented a custom designed file system in C mounted by FUSE module for Unix-like platform.  ? Supported directories, files with various sizes and 10+ user-defined file management operations. Android Programmer, New York Institute of Technology Mobile Video Monitor January 2014 to May 2014 Utilized multi-thread programming to handle user interaction, data process and transmission.  ? Implemented data transmission based on TCP/IP socket programming using Java.  ? Created 4 different image resolution ratio according to different network bandwidth conditions. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering New York University, Tandon School of Engineering - Brooklyn, NY May 2016 B.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering New York Institute of Technology May 2014