Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - Nationwide Insurance San Jose, CA SEEKING FOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER POSITIONS. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Application Developer Nationwide Insurance February 2017 to Present Designed and implemented backend services for financial product using MicroServices architecture.  Improved system stability and functionality by using Postman and Groovy/JUnit tests, debugged and fixed Jenkin failures.   Optimized application by building APIs and refactoring to increase the reusability of the code.  Supported the Front end team to build new applications, debugging problems and fixing bugs.  Cooperated with UX/UI and QAs to develop efficient, flexible, and reusable user interface components for a new website using Gulp, Angular.js, HTML. SELECTED PROJECTS: Baby tracking Project (Current, Spring) July 2017 to August 2017 Designed and implemented backend services using MicroServices architecture. Developed the system using Java, Spring/Data/Cloud, MongoDB, Maven, HTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap.   Implemented server side REST APIs such as location updater. Developed client side dashboard to integrate with backend using HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, BootStrap, Restful API.  Researched on Netflix Eureka as service registration and discovery, automated system replica, ways to increase the scalability, performance and robustness. SELECTED PROJECT: Cheese odor pattern recognition (JAVA, Python, Android) September 2016 to December 2016 Designed a portable, inexpensive food analysis system using electronic noses, Raspberry pi and an Android device.  Built the Android application, implemented the streaming data transferring functionality in JAVA, using server/client socket and streaming data visualization on the Android.  Achieved recognizing different cheeses under 10 seconds, 100% exceeded the requirements. SELECTED PROJECT September 2016 to December 2016 Developed a web application for students to search top ranked data with majors/keywords.  Implemented F-score algorithm, K-mean algorithm, Cosine, Tf-Idf, indexing, and ranking components.   Created a responsive web using Bootstrap, HTML, used Flask to integrate with the backend search results.  Achieved web crawler to retrieve over 1000 data source files from a third party website. Automation Testing Developer Intern Nationwide Insurance May 2016 to August 2016 Collaborated with QAs to write automated testing scripts using Ruby and Cucumber with TDD.  Collaborated with business owners and developers to fix defects and removed blockers.   Monitored on test failures to reduce the number of bugs and improved the stability of the project. Software Developer at Health for All Health for All January 2016 to May 2016 Designed and implemented an core modules of Health for All's internal tool, a web application, for storing and updating donor information using Ruby on Rails.  Participated in the entire Agile software lifecycle, including design, measurement, testing, and documentations.  Improved efficiency and accuracy for updating donor information up to 80%. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University, Dwight Look College of Engineering January 2017 Skills JAVA (4 years), HTML (3 years), PYTHON (1 year), Ruby (1 year), JSON (3 years), Web Services (Less than 1 year), Websphere (1 year), Oracle (1 year), SQL (3 years), Eclipse (4 years), Spring (Less than 1 year), Git (3 years), Unix Administration (3 years), Linux (3 years), Javascript (1 year), J2EE (1 year) Additional Information JAVA, MySQL, Angular.js, Groovy, JUnit, JavaScript/JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Python, C++, Ruby  Eclipse, Git, Microservices, Restful APIs, Maven, JSON, Tomcat, Websphere, OracleDB.  SVN, Jenkins, Postman, SoapUI, Gulp, Android Studio, Spring Framework, Bootstrap, Flask, MongoDB