Founder, Software Engineer Founder, Software Engineer Founder, Executive Director - Legalr New York, NY Senior at Columbia University with 3+ years experience in software engineering, data science, and financial modeling. Work Experience Founder, Software Engineer Legalr - New York, NY September 2017 to Present Developing a platform that allows anyone to easily access and understand the laws that affect their lives. Manage a team of twenty colleagues across five university campuses and three countries in all software development and research. Team Leader, Consultant 180 Degrees Consulting - New York, NY September 2017 to Present Managing a team of twelve student consultants delivering insights to non-profits in the greater New York City area.  Responsible for managing client relationships, structuring team projects, and ensuring that all insights are delivered on time. Summer Analyst, Python Developer RBC Capital Markets - New York, NY June 2018 to August 2018 Built a platform to aggregate, analyze and visualize financial data using Python and SQL. Scraped SEC filings to collect  data on the opaque aircraft leasing industry. Worked with the Group Risk Management team, focusing on credit risk and asset-backed securities. Intern, Marketing and Communications International Medical Corps UK - London June 2017 to August 2017 Drafted corporate marketing proposals for a large non-governmental organization (NGO). Researched companies looking  to expand in the millennial market. Determined optimal pricing model and strategy to maximize revenue for both the company and the NGO. Presented a successful proposal approved by the organization's CEO. Intern, Valuation Analysis Geoconsult Competent LLC - London June 2017 to August 2017 Calculated the net present value of a mining company operating in Armenia. Researched ore prices and evaluated market  risk. Created a discounted cash flow model in Excel. Presented valuation in a PowerPoint to investors. Refugee Aid Organizer Reims, FR February 2017 to June 2017 Mobilized volunteers to provide food and shelter for refugees who were left without government accommodation. Ensured  that families received two meals a day, seven days a week. Managed the efficient use of financial resources. Facilitated  communication between volunteers and refugees, translating between English, French, and Russian. Intern, Market Strategy & Research Trade and Logistics Services Ltd - London July 2016 to August 2016 Created a market entry strategy for Georgian olive oil in the EU market. Conducted market research to identify European  markets where Georgian olive oil could be competitive. Developed a pricing strategy to optimize market penetration and growth. Presented findings to investors and the Georgian Ministry of Agriculture. Education B.A. in Sustainable Development in Data Science and Finance Columbia University, School of General Studies - New York, NY May 2019 B.A. in Economics in Economics Columbia University May 2019 Sciences Po Paris - Reims, FR Skills JAVASCRIPT (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), SQL (3 years), EXCEL (3 years), R (1 year), VBA (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS: Python (proficient), SQL (proficient), R (proficient), JavaScript (proficient), Excel (proficient)