Data Integration Specialist Data Integration Specialist Grove, IL !  To obtain a Software Developer/Engineer opportunity at a cu9ing edge technology company.  !  Highlighted Skills:  • Over 3 years experience in Design, Development, and Maintenance of software applications using  Java/J2EE technologies, Python, C++, and Hadoop.  • Extensive experience in areas of Big Data including Apache Hadoop, HDFS, Map Reduce, Hbase,  Hive, Pig, Cassandra.  • Ported RDMS databases to Hadoop using Sqoop.  • Experienced in deploying large applications onto web servers including Websphere and Tomcat.  • Developed User Interfaces using QT designer, Eclipse, and Xcode.  • Experienced with Subversion Control.  • Heavy experience in Unix Scripting.  • Experienced in generating JSON and XML files to gather data from for testing purposes.  • Designed User--Defined--Functions (UDFs) for Pig to perform manipulation and displaying of data on  the Hadoop Filesystem.  • Implemented a test suite running Python scripts and the Django Web Framework.  • Experience in developing mobile applications for Android.  • Experience in gathering requirements for developing software to reach client goals.  • Involved in writing a heavy--detail Software Engineering Document covering the software life cycle  of a product including its requirements, development, and testing.  o Gathered requirements from the client (scope, performance, functional, non--functional)  o Designed class diagrams using Design Pa9erns (Composite, Visitor)  o Designed Entity--Relationship diagrams for the database to be used.  o Designed the database retrieval portion of the system, including all the Java statements to  execute the queries.  Technology Summary    • Programming/Languages: Java, C; C++, Python, Objective--C, Smalltalk, SQL, UNIX Sripting.  • Web Framework: Django  • Data: Hadoop, Hive, Hbase, Pig, Sqoop, Cassandra, JDBC, JSON, XML  • Programming Tools: Xcode, BlueJ, Eclipse, MySQL workbench Work Experience Data Integration Specialist Insygnum - Meadows, IL February 2014 to Present Created scripts using the Unix shell to perform Map Reduce Jobs with Pig and Hive.  • Created Hive tables in order to perform HiveQL queries.  • Ported JDBC databases over to Hadoop using Sqoop.  • Performed manipulation of files on the Hadoop Distributed Filesystem (HDFS)  • Performed commands using the Unix shell to transfer important files from the HDFS to the development machine.    Technologies: Linux, Hive, Pig, Hbase, Java. Student Developer Android - Chicago, IL October 2013 to December 2013 2013)  • The purpose of this project was to implement a sophisticated calculator that calculates the additions and subtractions of decimal, binary, and ternary numbers.  • Wrote Java code defining all of the functionality of the app using the Android Development Toolkit  (ADT) for Eclipse.  • Used the Android simulator from Eclipse and a phone to thoroughly test the function of the app.    Technologies: Android Development Toolkit for Eclipse, Java, C++. Python Developer Intern Uchicago Impact - Chicago, IL May 2013 to September 2013 Developed a test suite using python to write modules for testing a highly scalable web driven software  project known as five essentials.  • Implemented QuerySets using Django, a Python Web Framework, to generate JSON files from which the tests retrieved information from.  • Submi9ed recurrent updates of my code to Mercurial for peer review.    Technologies: Python, Django, Eclipse, Mercurial, MySQL. Java Developer Intern VajraSoft Inc - Dublin, CA December 2012 to May 2013 Organized and assembled an existing company product, wri9en in Java, to run on the SAP Cloud  platform.  • Worked with the Tomcat 7 and SAP.  • Ported a MySQL schema to MaxDB, a database system on the cloud.    Technologies: SAP, Java, Eclipse, TortoiseSVN, MySQL, Sybase. Software Developer Intern American RFID Solutions May 2012 to July 2012 Used GlassFish application server to set up a domain to run java applications.  • Integrated the LLRP (Low Level Reader Protocol) API's to a java application.  • LLRP is a toolkit to read RFID chips (Radio Frequency Identifier).    Technologies: Java, Eclipse, Groovy.    Major Projects in UIC (Starting from the Most Recent) Automated Grader NLP Project 2012 to 2012 2012)  • The purpose of this project was to implement an automated grader in Java which assigned scores to a  set of essays that were read from a directory.  • A workflow of the how the project was to be developed was drawn in class diagrams using UML.  • We implemented a search throughout every word in each essay and used the rules of Natural  Language Processing (NLP) to determine probabilities of the next word to determine the grammar.    Technologies: Java, Eclipse, Stanford Parser. Student Software Engineer VManage 2010 to 2010 2010) Website: hhps://sites.google.com/site/cs442inventory/code  • Implemented a pharmacy inventory system called VManage using Java and MySQL with a team of 3  other classmates.  • This system was to be developed professionally as if it was a deliverable to a large client.  • Class Diagrams were designed in UML to describe the functionality and design pa9erns of the software.  • The system addressed and adhered to the Functional and Nonfunctional Requirements given by the client.  • Many unit test cases were wri9en to assess the validity of the system. Verification and Validation were  checked.  • Written classes and tables in UML to represent different medicines and their attributes.  • SQL statements were wri9en in java to query for particular tables and their relations.    Technologies: MySQL, Java, Eclipse, UML. Education BS University of Illinois at Chicago - Chicago, IL 2009 to 2013 Additional Information • Operating Systems: Windows 8/7/Vista/Server 2008, Linux, Mac OS X  !