Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - DirecTV El Segundo, CA • 11+ years of experience in developing web based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, C++, DHTML, Java, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS.  • Experience in IT industry with proficiency in Analysis, Design & Development Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development using, Python, Django, Flask and SQL projects.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  • Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and C++.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell scripting.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  • Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Work Experience Python Developer DirecTV - El Segundo, CA October 2017 to Present Description:  DirecTV (stylized as DIRECTV) is an American direct broadcast satellite service provider based in El Segundo, California and is a subsidiary of AT&T. Its satellite service, launched transmits digital satellite television and audio to households in the United States, Latin America and the Caribbean/Americas.    Responsibilities: • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • For the development of the user interface of the website used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in developing views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Expertise in developing consumer-based features and applications with Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Modify the existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Have work knowledge on JIRA(Agile) for the bug tracking of the project.  • Worked on deployment on AWS EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage • Developed Chef Cookbooks to install and configure Apache Tomcat, Jenkins and deployment automation.  • Used Django-celery with the help of RabbitMQ message broker for large processing.  • Experience with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka.  • Worked on Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations.  • Developed full stack Python web framework with an emphasis on simplicity, flexibility, and extensibility.  • Worked on AWS Cloud Platform and its features which includes EC2, S3, EBS • Integrated Redis-Cache with Django Rest Framework for reading the data faster.  • Involved in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, and Implementation of the application.  • Implemented the application in LINUX environment and comfortable with all its commands.  • Developed Restful Microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Automated most of the daily task using python scripting.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python, MySQL, Hive, JSON, RESTful, Pandas, Machine Learning, Version One, Linux, Shell Scripting, IBM Netezza, JavaScript, AngularJS, Toad Data Point(SQL), Putty(Linux), Informatica. Python Developer Kroger - Blue Ash, OH September 2015 to October 2017 Description:  The Kroger Company, or simply Kroger, is an American retailing company. It is the United States's largest supermarket chain by revenue, the second-largest general retailer (behind Walmart) and the eighteenth largest company in the United States. Kroger is also the third-largest retailer in the world and the third largest private employer in the United States.    Responsibilities: • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software • Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django • Used Salt Stack to configure and manage the infrastructure • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework • Responsible for handling the integration of database system.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based scheme.  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  • Developed and Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python, Django Web Framework, HTML, CSS, NoSQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services. Python developer Elevate - Dallas, TX August 2013 to September 2015 Description:  Elevate is reinventing the non-prime lending industry by giving consumers access to responsible and transparent credit options.    Responsibilities: • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Worked on object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and JQuery.  • Experience with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Designed Interface using Bootstrap framework.  • Experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production. Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python, Django 1.4, MySQL, Amazon EC2, Amazon SQS, S3, Windows, Linux HTML5/CSS3, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache. Python Developer Columbus, OH July 2011 to August 2013 Description:  Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company and affiliated companies is a group of large U.S. insurance and financial services companies based in Columbus, OH. Nationwide currently has approximately 31,000 employees.    Responsibilities: • Involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script.  • Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control.  • Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were Maintained main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Maintained technical documentation for resolved issues for future reference • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering process • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system. This is a Customer feedback and complains management system.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix/VB.  • Development of Application using Java and Python.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting - web and web services.  • Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations.  • Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web based logic rather than correlation and parameterization.  • Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analyzing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc.  • Testing in citrix protocol with scripts and scenario.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python, Django Web Framework, HTML, CSS, NoSQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services. Python Developer Carbon Black, Inc - Boulder, CO June 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities: • Implemented business logic of the application utilizing Python on Django Framework • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user- friendly website interface • Developed rich user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using CSS, HTML and JavaScript • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL • Wrote python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Dashboard features were developed and tested using Django, Java Script and CSS • Used PyUnit, a python unit test framework for all Python applications.  • Used Bit bucket to do basic Git operations and controlling read and write access to the code • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application • Ability to successfully implement the application in LINUX environment.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Apache Struts, PyCharm, Eclipse, PyUnit, Git Business Analyst Oklahoma City, OK May 2007 to June 2009 Description:  The Hobby Lobby online shopping website to buy and compare store prices. They wanted to upgrade the current system they had for Order Management which included inventory information and vendor details. The upgrade was done mainly for the system to better handle load and still keep up good performance.    Responsibilities: • Analyzed business and system requirements • Collaborated with sales and marketing teams and external ad agencies • Clarified client requirements, business rules and client objectives via feedback sessions.  • Created cross functional, activity and use case diagrams for a better view of e-commerce • Worked with QA's to create test plans according to the given timelines and ensuring that the final release catered to the user requirements • Ensured that all requirements, enhancements and defects for the particular release have been developed, fixed and tested by creating traceability matrices • Checked to make sure the system would work on all browsers and environments • Got system approvals by conducting UAT sessions • Updated and maintained a 400-page site, reinforcing branding and marketing • Produced ad hoc, incentive compensation & risk management monthly and quarterly reports • Helped my team adopt BPMN 2.0 as our standard notation for documenting business processes.  • Utilized ATG commerce modules including Catalog, Shopping Cart, Checkout, and Price Lists.  ENVIRONMENT:  MS Project, MS Visio, MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access), Crystal Reports, JIRA Business Analyst United Airlines - Chicago, IL April 2006 to May 2007 Description:  Project-Single Coupon Exchange (SCE): United Airlines, Inc. provides air transportation services in North America, Asia-Pacific, Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Latin America. The United IT team designs, develops and maintains massively scaling technology solutions that are brought to life with innovative architectures, data analytics and digital solutions. The ticketing team is responsible for providing ticketing service support like ticket exchanges and cancellations along with enhancement of the existing application. SCE involves enhancement of both application and service. It allows Flight agents to exchange a "USED" or "LIFTED" coupon with the situation such as diversions, cancellation or disconnects of the flights in a journey.    Responsibilities: • Worked closely with business partners, project manager and software development team to gather project scope and business requirements.  • Defined, prioritized, and tracked requirements throughout the project which enabled the development team to respond promptly without risking the project success.  • Managed Agile Life Cycle, Product backlog, Iterations plan, created user stories and product backlog • using TFS.  • Created and modified different types of used and lifted PNR's using Inative.  • Enforced project schedules and deadlines within timelines.  • Facilitated communication between business unit & development team from initial requirements to final implementation.  • Updated TFS planning board, assigned tasks to the development team and created user stories for all the resources.  • Maintained action items and minute meeting documentation.  • Created test scenarios by scripting test cases using Jnative for used and lifted coupons of PNR.  • Processed reservations by email, telephone, fax or central reservation system as referral.  ENVIRONMENT:  MS Project, MS Visio, MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access), Crystal Reports, JIRA. Education Master's Skills Git, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Python, Svn, Jira, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Sql, Dns, Linux, Unix, Angularjs, Java, Ec2, Cdn, PHP, Javascript, jQuery, ASP, Android