Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CBRE Dallas, TX • 3+ years of experience in research, Design, Development and Implementation of stand-alone and client-server enterprise applications in Python and C.  • Have experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQL Alchemy.  • Experienced of software development in Python (libraries used: Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Pandas, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, IDLE, Spyder, Pycharm, emacs.  • Good understanding of Object-Oriented Technologies and Relational Database Systems.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience in working with AWS: Amazon S3, Amazon EC2, and Relational Database Services.  • Have experience in Object-oriented programming, multi-threading, algorithms, data structures and system programming.  • Have experience on Kubernetes and Docker for runtime environment of system to build, test & deploy.  • Experience in continuous build and version control systems like Jira, Git and SVN.  • Having hands experience on JSON modules of python to call web service to handle the multi-processing created a celery tasks with the help of message broker RabbitMQ.  • Experience of working in Agile methodology development Scrum.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables and views.  • Good analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer CBRE - Dallas, TX June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Participated in various stages of Software development life cycle(SDLC) from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Worked in an Agile(Framework: SCRUM) development environment. Used JIRA to manage bug tracking and debugged the errors.  • Developed numerous new features and enhancements for our web application using Python/Django, HTML/CSS/JS as well as automating our development environment using ansible.  • Created a user-friendly website interface by developing views, screens for delete, Edit, Enable, Disable and Impersonate Users and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language.  • Migrate on in-house database to AWS Cloud and also designed, built, and deployed a multitude of applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, RDS) by focusing on high-availability and auto-scaling.  • Involved in support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Microservice architecture development using Python and Docker on an Ubuntu Linux platform using HTTP/REST interfaces with deployment into a multi-node Kubernetes environment.  • Performed Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology.  • Wrote scripts to automate python packaging and used PyGit to interact with the Gitlab.  • Used Python text parsing modules to cleanse and load data files from partners into the application/database. Data came in various formats including XML and JSON.  • Managed code versioning with Github and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Used Design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability. Performed functional testing, integration testing, and communication testing.  • Worked on statistical analysis by processing of collected data and Data Visualization using Python Pandas, Matplotlib, Scipy and Numpy packages.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL and integrations with 3rd party email(slack), messaging, storage services and used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Creating and modifying webservices and stored procedures to implement new requirements using Python.  • Involved in writing SQL queries using python to filter the data and fetch data in order to generate reports.  • Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with the commands.  • All projects adhered to agile principles to deliver commitments, meet acceptance criteria and ensure fast releases.  Environment: Python, Django, scipy, Pandas, GitLab, Pytest, PyGit, Selenium, JQuery, JSON, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Eclipse, Pycharm, AWS, Kubernetes, Docker, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Enterprise Linux, Nginx. Jr. Python Developer Computer Science Corporation August 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:    • Used Django and Python for designing of forms, modules, Views and Templates which incorporates various graphical elements for the content produced.  • Worked on UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JSON for presenting content in their websites.  • Wrote and executed various database queries on Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Worked with SCRUM Agile methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work with monthly iteration/time box.  • Executed Backend and Database tests using SQL queries, validating the data for database editing and debugging is conducted using selenium.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Extensively involved in performing unit testing using PyUnit which are bundled and imported automatically.  • All the code are stored in local Git repository and once it is validated then it is committed onto GitHub.  • Used integrated debugger tool from PyCharm for debugging of source code for better analysis.  • Designed and developed Python Django templates and UI components using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and JSON.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the application using Python.  • For Python programs, debugging was done using module PDB in an interactive source code.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used AJAX and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used JIRA to maintain system protocols by writing and updating procedures and business case requirements, functional requirement specifications documents.  • Implemented unit testing using PyUnit, and tested several RESTful services using SOAP UI.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.    Environment: Python, Django, Numpy, Git, Pytest, PDB, JSON, SQL Alchemy, MySQL, Eclipse, Pycharm, HTML/CSS, Linux, Apache Tomcat. Python Developer Intern Blusapphire, India - IN August 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:    • Worked with various C and C++ tasks, integrated with them using Python.  • Conducted and performed unit testing for every module of the source code.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. Also, used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Installation, configuration and administration of Virtual box and VMware virtual machine for Ubuntu and Linux servers.  • Created SQL loader Scripts to load data into the temporary staging tables.  • Involved in making GUI (JSP, HTML, and JS) and java classes using Struts Framework.  • Object Oriented Concepts(OOPS) like Collections, Multi-threading, Exception Handling, Reflection.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries.  • Experience with Core java with understanding and working knowledge.  Environment: Python, C, C++, Django, Pytest, Git, PDB, JSON, SQL Alchemy, MySQL, Eclipse, Pycharm, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, Linux, Java, Javascript. Education Master of Science in Electrical and Electronics Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering University of North Texas - Denton, TX May 2017 Technology VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology May 2015 Skills CSS (2 years), Django (2 years), Eclipse (2 years), HTML (2 years), JSON. (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python, C, C++, core Java.  Frameworks Django, Pytest, PDB, Scrum, Pylint.  Databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, SQLite.  Web Technologies HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap.  Protocols HTTP/HTTPS and REST.  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, Nginx, AWS  Operating System Red Hat Enterprise Linux(RHEL), Solaris, Unix, Windows, Mac OSX.  Version Control Tools Git/GitHub, SVN, CVS, Git Lab, GitBucket.  Development Tools Sublime Text, Visual Studio, Eclipse, PyCharm, Python-IDLE, Atom, Kubernetes, Docker.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Design Pattern.