Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Dell Computers Dallas, TX • Over 7 years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Experienced in HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Django, HTML, XML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Good knowledge on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Special skills in development of effective, user-friendly web applications. Experienced in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modelling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity and Security and Database applications.  • Experience in analysing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9i (9.2.0.8), 10g [ ] [ ] [ ] and 11g [ ] [ ]  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Good knowledge in working with application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0)  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM. Have good knowledge on Project management tools JIRA, Redmine and Bugzilla.  • Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and SVN.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jytho  • Experience in Test Driven Development and Behaviour Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Dell Computers - Dallas, TX May 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used  • Python/Django based web application, Post gresql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript andAngular JS.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • To provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • part of the SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) team enforcing best practices for services ( REST and SOAP).  • Designed and developed System monitoring in Python and Redis to keep track health of Platform, Hbase, Storm, Kafka etc in the multi-node cluster environment  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Experienceto transition to using an automated testing framework for ATDD, ROBOT (keyword-driven testing approach and Selenium based)  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB and PostgreSQL.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models. Maintained and updated existing automated solutions  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  • Anticipated potential parts of failure ( database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side. Work with DNS to map the website to its IP address.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting.  Python Developer UBS  Chicago, IL Jan2013 toMay2015  Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Real time streaming the data using Spark with Kafka.  • Configured Spark streaming to receive real time data from the Kafka and store the stream data to HDFS using Scale  • I have used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Participate in high level team discussions in understanding of Networking Technologies like Load balancer (F5), Firewall, VIP, DNS  • Used Jenkinsplug-ins like Build pipeline, job DSL, templates etc.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience with using Gradle, a project automation tool with Apache Ant and Apache Maven for a Groovy-based specific DSL (Domain-Specific Language.).  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Also Learnt to deploy projects using Jenkins.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Develop Informatica mapping, SQL, concurrent workflows, and Unix scripts to execute the DFL jobs.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Optimized the runtime for the android stability test suite by 10% by automating the setup steps on the device using Robot framework  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL. Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Python, Django, Panda API, JSON, PHP, Flash, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, AWS, PyUnit, XML, SOAP, GitHub, Jira, Agile, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Python Developer Python Developer Capital Bank - Richmond, VA 2014 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Used Couch base Python SDK to build applications that use Couch base Server.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, Couch base Python SDK, PyQt, Java, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Linux. Python Developer Innovative Solutions August 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Application architecture designed as per the requirements using spring framework.  • Requirement Analysis and Estimation of project timelines.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Generated Pdf daily and Monthly statements using Aspose PDF Kit. Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed front end page using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Collecting the several usage models and functions from the team members.  • Developing and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user.  • Development of XMLs for several components which maintains data for several registers.  • Designed and developed SQL procedures and Linux shell scripts for data import/export and data conversions.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  • Wrote SQL Queries, Store Procedures, Triggers and functions in MySQL Databases.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Coordinate with SMEs, other architects, and senior technical staff to identify client's needs, document assumptions, and build-out new requirements and move code through user acceptance testing.  Environment: Python, C++, HTML, CSS, TDD, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Education Bachelors in ComputerScience West Bengal University of Technology 2009 Skills Python (5 years), Django (4 years), Apache Kafka (4 years), Scripting (5 years), Database (5 years), JavaScript (5 years), jQuery (4 years), CSS (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Programming Languagespython, Java, MYSQL, C/C++. Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django1.6,Webapp2,Flask, Code Collaborator  JavaScript Libraries: Angular JS, Bootstrap, JQuery, Node JS, Backbone JS  Databases MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10gMySQL, Oracle, SQL Server  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, IIS  Operating System: UNIX, SUN Solaris, Linux, HPUX, Windows  Modelling tools: TOAD, Erwin, Rapid Sql