Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Hertz Estero, FL • 10+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and object-oriented programming (OOP) coding with Python, Django, C++.  • Extensive knowledge in Python, Java, MySQL, Oracle, Unix, Linux and in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Developed dynamic frontend and backend applications using Python, Flask Frameworks.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDEs using PyCharm, Spyder, NetBeans, PyStudio, PyScripter, Eric, Wing IDE and PyDev.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, PySpark, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, asyncio, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity) and IDEs -sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, pytest, Eclipse, emacs.  • Develop E-Commerce application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ReactJS, SQL, Python and Flask.  • Worked with MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script, jQuery and JSON.  • Developed unit tests for Django and Flask applications.  • Researched JavaScript frameworks to replace frontend of a Flask application and began implementing a React solution.  • Cognitive about designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Highly skilled in deployment, data security and troubleshooting of the applications using AWS services.  • Experienced in implementing Organization DevOps strategy in various operating environments of Linux and windows servers along with cloud strategies of Amazon Web Services  • Proficient in writing Cloud Formation Templates (CFT) in YAML and JSON format to build the AWS services with the paradigm of Infrastructure as a Code.  • Knowledge on Extraction, Transformation, and Loading techniques with python integration.  • Gained experience in deploying applications on to their respective environments using Elastic Beanstalk.  • Experienced with event-driven and scheduled AWS Lambda functions to trigger various AWS resources  • Driven to architect Big Data solutions on multiple platforms using data analytics  • Extensive knowledge in PHP, MySQL, NoSQL, UNIX and Linux.  • Experience with Design, code, debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Created internal diagnostic tools using Golang and AngularJS in order to assist with customer issues. Golang and Java were used as a backend REST service while AngularJS was used for the user interface.  • Developed responsive web product features using React JS, SASS, on Golang with REST.  • Built enterprise wide DNS historical data trending analysis tools in Go (Golang), Languages  with REST API for user queries as microservice.  • Building a Command line tool to interact with RESTful API using in Golang.  • Worked on Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications and data processing automation using Python.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding and experience in analyzing and handling large database using Oracle Relational Data Architecture.  • Basic Knowledge on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications  • Experience of software development with Python and various libraries of Python, Python-twitter, Pandas, Data frame, MySQL dB for database connectivity), Regular expression, File IO etc.  • Skillful experience in Python by developing software's using new tools, libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, PySide, Python-twitter, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas data-frame, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to improvise software development process.  • Working with backend Python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Good experience in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP.  • Exposure on Microsoft Azure Cloud platform.  • Expertise in AWS Resources like EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Security Groups.  • Working experience with cloud infrastructure of AWS (Amazon Web Services) and computing AMI virtual machines on Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).  • Have experience with AWS LAMBDA which runs the code with response of events  • Hands on experience with version control tools such as SVN, JIRA, GitHub, and GitLab.  • Developed Web-based applications using python, Amazon Web Services, jQuery, CSS and Model View control frameworks like Django, Flask and JavaScript.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM process including Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Daily Standups and Code review.  • Knowledge of automation technology such as Chef, Ansible and Puppet Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Hertz - Estero, FL May 2017 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Design / Implementation of pricing module (average swaps, basis swaps, swaptions, and caps/floors on commodity futures) in C++.  • Developed C++ Trade Capture and processing application which is a single unified platform for booking and tracking Credit derivatives like CDSI, Single Name CDS, and Index Tranches, etc. using network/socket programming and multithreading concepts.  • Developed embedded C++, real time SCA compliant QT software objects.  • Experience working on a wide range of microcontrollers/microprocessors such as 8051, 8086, ARM, PIC on Embedded devices.  • Experience in developing C++ services using web services architecture, SOAP, WSDL, and XML.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python and created data access modules in Python.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework and Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Python & Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange & business logic implementation between servers.  • Rewrote existing Python/Flask module to deliver certain format of data.  • Created script in python for calling REST APIs.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and implement CSS for better appearance and feel.  • Built complete Configuration Management for the Micro-services using Kubernetes, Docker and Ansible.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Developing the Python automated scripting using Boto3 library for AWS Security audit and reporting using AWS Lambda for multiple AWS Accounts.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services such as EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, and Elastic Load Balancer.  • Used the boto3 module in Python to interface with Amazon Web Services (AWS) like DynamoDB, which is a NoSQL database service that provides fast and predictable performance with seamless scalability.  • Also used python scripts for security purposes, AWS IAM, AWS lambda functions and deploying the applications through elastic beanstalk.  • Used GO lang scripts for uploading a file to S3 and deploying them and creating GO serverless application and deploying it to AWS lambda.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, WSDL, NetBeans, JBOSS, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP. Sr. Python Developer Caterpillar - Mossville, IL February 2015 to May 2017 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Developed in C++, Web services (REST & JSON) in Windows and Linux environments.  • Developed highly efficient algorithms in C++ through both pair-programming and independent work. The algorithms improved inventory management benchmarks 18 percent.  • Developed full-stack web applications using Flask, Python React.js, SQL, HTML/CSS and JavaScript. Included in the geolocation.  • Python NumPy, Matplotlib, SciPy, and Pandas packages created a web scraping application in Flask to perform dataset manipulation. for data wrangling.  • Incrementally refactored Flask server endpoints to provide JSON data through REST API to React.js components.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Developed backup and recovery engine for VM backup/recovery using VMware vSphere APIs, Golang programming language and RabbitMQ Message bus (communication interface).  • Managed Linux and Windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 using Chef Server. Configured and monitored distributed and multi-platform servers using chef.  • Experience in core AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, EBS, Route53, VPC, Auto scaling etc.) and deployment services (Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, OpsWorks and Cloud Formation) and security practices (IAM, CloudWatch and Cloud trail).  • Experience with AWS S3 services creating buckets, configuring buckets with permissions, logging, and versioning and tagging of S3 buckets.  • Creating IAM roles that allows access to IAM APIs to use it in the Lambda function as an execution role through the permissions policy associated with the role.  • Used AWS lambda to run servers without managing them and to trigger to run code by S3 and SNS.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script.  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and Python libraries.  • Written functional PHP unit test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, Curl, XML, JSON, REST base services and Mongo DB.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  Environment: Java, Django, Flask, XML, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, Mongo dB, SQL, Python 3.3, HTML5/CSS, Cassandra, JavaScript, PyCharm, GIT, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, Docker, Jenkins, JIRA, jQuery, MySQL, AWS PYTHON DEVELOPER Boston Scientific - San Jose, CA November 2012 to February 2015 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Interacted with the client end-users during requirements gathering sessions.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 2.7 and its familiar framework Django.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Worked on real time in memory distributed systems.  • Designed and developed transactions and persistence layers to save/retrieve/modify data for application functionalities using Django and PostgreSQL  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful, Webservices from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Used object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Implemented and tested Python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Wrote MapReduce code to make un-structured data into semi- structured data and loaded into Hive tables.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework by implementing MVC architecture.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python and also implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and SQL Queries  • Installed and configured builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Upgraded internal and customer TLS/SSL Apache Web Server configurations; trained staff on proper implementations, potential issues/concerns, and automated changes with Ansible  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.    Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, AWS, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, Sublime Text, PyCharm, Jira, GIT, pybuilder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services, HTML5/CSS, XML, JSON, Ajax PYTHON DEVELOPER All State Insurance - Northbrook, IL September 2010 to November 2012 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in reviewing and understanding the Business requirements.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis and developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  • Working in team of developers to build and deploy Flask, Linux, and AWS.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and also used AWS CLI to control various AWS services over SHELL/Bash.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Developed web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  • Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit, Selenium and Rational Function Tester.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Wrote Maven scripts for compiling, building, packaging and deploying the WAR file.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Developed methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Expertise in creating and developing applications for android operating system using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, SQLite, Java, XML, Android SDK and ADT plugin.  • Worked on Angular JS to augment browser applications with MVC capability.    Environment: Python, Angular, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, MySQL server, T-SQL, GIT, Reports, RESTful, Linux, JSON, AJAX. Sowftware Developer NetCloudTek - San Jose, CA July 2008 to September 2010 NetCloudTek is dedicated to maintaining professional excellence, trust, respect and integrity in all aspects of real estate operations. The aim of Utility Management System (UMS) was designed to provide the accounting equivalent of a comprehensive inventory control, property management, logistics management and meter management for an electric utility. The project was to enhance the usability of utility invoice system by implementing AngularJS single page application. It gives the Account Specialist the ability to quickly enter the Utility Invoices.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and AngularJ.  • Implement functionality such as Searching, Filtering, Sorting, Categories, Validating using AngularJS framework.  • Created Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS 1.4.  • Implemented AngularJS Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server.  • Used AngularJS filters for search, sorting, pagination and custom filters.  • Designed a Web application using Web API with AngularJS and populated data using ADO.NET entity framework and Used Entity Framework to model and manage data from SQL Server.  • Created AngularJS Routing to connect different controller to the view which allows the single-page application.  • For better design user experience used Bootstrap for Modal pop-ups, Alerts, etc.  • Used Angular ng-grid, ng-repeat for showing Tabular Database.  • Developed form validation with AngularJS $valid, and data validation.  • Created Tables, Stored Procedures, Views for different data operation.  • on the database using SQL server.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript, Ajax, Web API, Sql Server XML, Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server 2012, IIS 7.0 Education Bachelor's Skills database (10+ years), Django (8 years), JavaScript (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), XML. (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License