Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Title Source, MI MI • 9 years of experience in developing and designing Web Based, Multi-tier distributed applications using latest analytical programming Python, Django, Flash, JAVA, J2EE and Spring technologies.  • Experienced in Python's modules Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, Pandas, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables PyQt, Scikit-learn etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Experience with all aspects of technology projects including Business Requirements, Technical Architecture, Design Specification, Development and Deployment.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Develop ETL packages using SSIS to insert datasets to SQL server and generate project reports using SSRS and SQL.  • SQL Reference Mapper, using Regular Expressions Successfully mapped over a hundred thousand SQL references inside of SQL Object source code, VB code, SSRS reports, and DTS packages.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans and Geany.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell programming  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework.  • Experience in implementing Data warehouse solutions in AWS Redshift worked on various projects to migrate data from on database to AWS Redshift, RDS and S3.  • Familiar and Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX (Sun Solaris, AIX), Linux and Windows.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Expert in using JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Application Stress tester, created and stress tested stand-alone, web-applications and generated graph reports.  • Used PDB, GDB and other debugging tools and deployed production hot fixes.  • Knowledge of deployment tools using Heroku, Jenkins, pylint, cpp Check and Coverity  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP Serializable JSON strings.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing(UAT)  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases  • Expertise in Production support. Provided first, second and third level support to different organizations.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Title Source, MI March 2015 to Present Responsibilities:    • Developed the application using Agile methodology and Scrum method of project management.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of FlashVars stored in the Django models.  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgre sql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Design and architect the Ad Hoc Reporting and Analytics Package Design and Configuration system, using Pyramid/Flask/Django.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  • Also Created Angular JS controllers, directives, models for different modules of the application.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins,  MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Managing the multi-tier and multi-region architecture using AWS Cloud Formation.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Helped maintain existing Python (Django and Flask) applications. Interfaced with infrastructure services like Amazon AWS (S3, SQS) and used tools like Solr, RabbitMQ.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, web application and automation testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7 and 3.5, Django 1.6.1, Selenium ,HTML-5, CSS-3, XML, MySQL, JIRA, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, PyQt, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB-3.2, Pandas, MS SQL Server-2014, T- SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Sr. Python Developer ACS/Xerox, NY March 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery, Django.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build Spring MVC Architecture with Angular JS.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py ,HTML and other web technologies.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Imported data from SQL Server and Excel to SAS datasets. Performed data manipulation by merging several datasets and extracted relevant information  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Also, created XML with Django to be used by the Flash  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Used Cloud Front to deliver content from AWS edge locations to users, allowing for further reduction of load on front-end servers.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and DE normalization.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day to day tasks.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation    Environment: Python, Angular Js, PyQt, Django1.4, Pandas, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Sr. Python Developer Liberty Mutual - Dover, NH October 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:    • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD. Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java, C++.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs  • Leveraged Angular JS resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces  • Automating the creation of Excel pivot tables from SAS data sets using SAS/Macro and VBA.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Worked with Single page application framework Angular JS extensively using routing, services, views and directives.  • Build scripts on AWS cloud for scheduling EC2 auto scaling load balancer with python SDK.  • Extensively used Bash shell scripting for doing manipulations of the flat files, given by the clients.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  • Used Cloud Front to deliver content from AWS edge locations to users, allowing for further reduction of load on front-end servers.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Generated SWIG interfaces to co-ordinate between C++, Java and Python. Used JNI for communication between C++ and Java.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.    Environment: Python, Django1.4, HTML/CSS, AWS, Angular JS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Williams Companies - Tulsa, OK July 2009 to August 2012 Responsibilities:    • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Used JQuery for all client side JavaScript manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Performed Unit/System test.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations    Environment: Python 2.6, Scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, JASPER, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache. Software Developer Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd April 2007 to June 2009 Responsibilities:    • As a Java Programmer, worked on creating custom mechanism by using CSS, HTML and JavaScript and used Controls and Repeaters for data sets.  • Qualified in UNIX shell scripting as part of the implementation process.  • Was part of writing SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, involved in modifications to the existing database structure.  • Expertise SVN as the version control tool for the Code to commit and fetch.  • Actively worked on developing the automatic build scripts by using ANT for application to organize and test in Servers.  • Worked using XML documents with XSLT and CSS to interpret the content into HTML also validated XML using DTD's and XSD's.  • Experience in analyzing business needs as a part of releases as a Developer in Java,  • Was responsible for designing object model diagrams and data model diagrams to meet the business necessities.  • Developed the application by using various design patterns like DAO, Singleton and Session Facade. Fashioned and updated Wiki for the ecommerce and client teams to exchange information about the projects.  • Worked using Struts validators and 1.x tiles concept for front end execution.  • Worked on the presentation layer of the application with the help of servlets and JSPs. Engrossed in writing JUnit 3 Test Cases for unit testing various modules of application.  • Was responsible to write stored procedures and add new paper types, concluding options to the database.  • Proficiency in using Eclipse Galileo IDE for application progress.    Environment: Java1.6, Struts 1.x, J2EE, HTML, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Eclipse, XML, XSLT, XSD, EJB, Ant, JUnit, Tomcat, Windows XP, UNIX, Oracle10g, CSS style sheets. Skills Bootstrap (7 years), CSS (9 years), HTML (9 years), sql (9 years), XML (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks Django, web2py, pyramid, Flask, Struts, pylons and CSS Bootstrap    Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS  Programming Languages C, C++, Python-3.5 & 2.7, Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  Python Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables, pdb    Version Control GIT (GitHub), SVN, CVS, Bitbucket.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB,  IDE's/ Development Tools Py Charm, and Sublime Text.  Web Services AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SNMP, SMTP, REST.  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall