Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - AT&T Middletown, NJ • 9+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, C, Django in various domains.  • Good experience with design, coding, debug operations, reporting and data analysis utilizing python and using python libraries to speed up development.  • Libraries used: Pandas data frame, network, Beautiful soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, urlib2, JSON libraries and MySQL database for connectivity.  • Hands on experience with Big Data environment on technologies including Hadoop.  • Experience customizing JIRA projects with various schemas, complex workflows, screen schemes, permission schemes, and notification schemes.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good in writing Sub Queries, stored procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL databases.  • Good in developing, implementing, and improving processes by bringing engineering, Operations, QA, and Product Management.  • Experienced with full software development, architecture scalable platforms, database design, etc.  • Excellent knowledge on Predictive Modeling using python and K-mean Clustering for Python Machine Language.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Experienced in designing web pages and Graphical user interfaces, front end layouts on the web by using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap framework, PHP, XML, JavaScript, node JS and Angular JS.  • Developed Web-based applications using Python, Amazon Web Services, jQuery, CSS and Model View control frameworks like Django, Flask and JavaScript.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concept using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Hands-on experience on monitoring tools like Nagios and Amazon Cloud Watch to maintain properly various systems on different environments.  • Created Secured Cloud infrastructure using (VPC) for Staging and Development environment on AWS.  • Developed Cloud Formation templates, also launched AWS Elastic Beanstalk for deploying, monitoring and scaling web applications using different platforms like Java, Docker, Python etc.  • Expertise in AWS Resources like EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Security Groups.  • Working experience with cloud infrastructure of AWS (Amazon Web Services) and computing  • AMI virtual machines on Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).  • Experience in executing Organization DevOps methodology in different situations of LINUX and Windows servers alongside adopting cloud procedures based on Amazon Web Services.  • Involved in integrating the GIT into the Puppet to ensure the integrity of applications by creating Production, Development, Test, and Release Branches.  • Maintained Git repositories for DevOps environment: Version control and build automation integrating git into Jenkins.  • Have experience with AWS LAMBDA which runs the code with response of events.  • Developed custom Ansible playbook and integrated in Jenkins post configuration for setting up the automated build pipeline for GIT repository projects.  • Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer AT&T - Middletown, NJ June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces using CQ5, HTML and ASP's for user interaction Used JavaScript, jQuery for client-side validation. Worked in AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI. Used CSS, CSS2/CSS3for styling the Front-end pages.  • Plan and organize GIS shape files into Geodatabase; create, manage, convergent implement your databases into other file formats as required.  • Perform quality control checks of GIS data and non-spatial databases to ensure data integrity.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web based solution.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Developed multiple chef cookbooks from scratch.  • Managing Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as uDeploy, Puppet or custom-built. Designing cloud-hosted solutions, specific AWS product suite experience.  • Implemented secured way of Centralized login for AWS users using 389 Directory Services (LDAP) and OpenVPN.  • Implemented Vagrant, a production like virtual development environment for developers.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Responsible for Plug-in Management, User Management and Backup/Disaster Recovery Plan/Implementation (BDR) on Jenkins.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Celery framework to develop a new feature to support parallel processes and complete multiple requests simultaneously.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GitHub.  • Have used Confluence to create, share and discuss content and projects.  • Expertise in Using Version management tools Git, bit-bucket and source Tree.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python 3.x, Django, Celery, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GIS, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer SIEMENS - Tarrytown, NY October 2015 to May 2017 Siemens Corporation is a U.S. subsidiary of Siemens AG, a global powerhouse focusing on the areas of electrification, automation and digitalization. One of the world's largest producers of energy-efficient, resource-saving technologies, Siemens is a leading supplier of systems for power generation and transmission as well as medical diagnosis. The company is a prominent maker of medical diagnostics equipment and its medical health-care division, which generates about 12 percent of the company's total sales. In infrastructure and industry solutions the company plays a pioneering role.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD. Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java, C++  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Created Data layer in MYSQL.  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages.  • Migrated applications to the AWS cloud and Involved in DevOps processes for build and deploy systems.  • Build and lead POCs for tools for internal use to support DevOps best practices using Docker for Container based Virtualization and documenting with MS Word and SnagIt.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life.  • Configured and deployed several hypervisors and VMs running OpenStack for DevOps, testing and production environments.  • Worked with the Database Schema design and normalization for database accessed by the procedural PHP pages.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Maintaining strict version control using Git with an understanding of what tasks require branching and which can be done in development.  • Generated SWIG interfaces to co-ordinate between C++, Java and Python. Used JNI for communication between C++ and Java.  • Implemented continuous integration and deployment systems using AWS code pipeline, Jenkins, ANT, Maven, Artifactory/Nexus, Ansible and Run deck.  • Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing a complete automation solution.  • Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Debugging and testing of the applications &fine-tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  ENVIRONMENT:  Java, Python, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MySQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Jenkins, Unix Shell Scripting, Angular JS, TCP/IP, UDP, SNMP, GIT, Red Hat Linux, AWS. Python Developer Verizon Business - Ashburn, VA January 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed high level design documents.  • Have used Python libraries like NumPy/ SkiPy, Pandas for market analysis and done some machine learning using Python.  • Analyzed various logs that are been generated and used various Python libraries to predict/forecast next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Used Django framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture (MVC).  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base, reducing the number of lines in code and duplication significantly.  • Wrote Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Query Optimization through MYSQL server tools for quick response time.  • Designed and Developed DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database and also used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Responsible to set up REST API frame work using Django, Flask.  • Developed, designed, managed dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL API calls.  • Performed some operations, visualization on Oracle DB using libraries like Ox oracle, MatPlotlib, Pandas.  • Build back-end application with Python / Django, Worked on Dockers, RabbitMQ, Celery, and Jenkins.  • Worked with Network related python libraries for transferring the files and connecting remotely to the servers.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data using integration of Python with C and C++ libraries.  • Developed Python classes and used decorated methods to create the dependency graphs for the business logic and core applications that are pre-built using C++.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria and developed a GUI for a Java script product.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python 2.7, NumPy, SkiPy, Dockers, Pandas, C++, JSON, Oracle DB, MySQL, DB2, PL/SQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django 1.4 Python Developer Gold Stone Technologies Pvt Ltd January 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in reviewing and understanding the Business requirements.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python and made a Celery action using REST API call.  • Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Developed web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  • Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit, Selenium and Rational Function Tester.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Developed methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Proficient with Java and Android SDK version Android 1.5 to Android 7.0 (Gingerbread, Honey comb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat, Lollipop, Marshmallow and Nougat).  • Expertise in creating and developing applications for android operating system using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, SQLite, Java, XML, Android SDK and ADT plugin.  • Scripted simulation hardware for testing using the Simics simulator.  • Execute Validation Process through SIMICS.  • Worked on Angular JS to augment browser applications with MVC capability.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python, Celery, mod python, Angular, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, MsSQL server, T-SQL, Jasper, GIT, Reports, RESTful, Linux, Android OS Android 1.5 to Android 6.0  JSON, AJAX. software Developer Honeywell - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2008 to December 2009 Honeywell International Inc. is a multinational conglomerate company that produces a variety of commercial and consumer products, engineering services and aerospace systems for a wide variety of customers, from private consumers to major corporations and governments. The company operates four business units, known as Strategic Business Units - Honeywell Aerospace, Home and Building Technologies (HBT), Safety and Productivity Solutions (SPS), and Honeywell Performance Materials and Technologies    Responsibilities:  • Dealt with administrating a server system using a mobile device.  • Involved in developing code, utilizing the object oriented design principles, Unit and Integration Testing and Developed and maintained Perl/Ant scripts for build and release tasks.  • Was part of writing SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, involved in modifications to the existing database structure  • Expertise SVN as the version control tool for the Code to commit and fetch.  • Used Core Java and J2EE for developments and Modified ANT scripts to build the JAR, Classes.  • Involved in editing the existing ANT (Build.XML) files in case of errors or changes in the project requirements and Developed remote network administration application for the R&D department.  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Involved in gathering initial software requirements for the application.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the applications using Java, J2EE, and JDBC.  • Developed MVC Model Classes which route submissions via Business Delegate to the appropriate business components and render retrieved information.  • Developed executable Java code to process the work flows.  • Taken care of complete Java multi-threading part in back end components.  • Involved in developing Login, Registration, Logout, Listeners, jsp's.  • Wrote JavaScript for client side validation.  • Designed and developed the original prototype for a highly-complex, interactive, graphical, web user-interface using standards-compliant JavaScript  • Involved in developing JS for the jsp pages developed.  ENVIRONMENT:  UNIX, JUnit, SVN, Java, Jenkins, Java/J2EE, REST Services SVN, GIT, Apache Maven, Tomcat, Spring Framework, SOAP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, Bootstrap, XML. MYSQL, DNS, Linux, Windows. Skills DATABASE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), LINUX (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, Python, JavaScript, PHP, XML, JAVA, SQL  SCM Tools Subversion, Perforce, Jenkins/Hudson, Sonar, Jira, TFS, Confluence, Clear Case, AccuRev, GIT, GitHub.  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Make  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows, DOS, VMware  Protocols  OSI Reference Model, IPv4 and IPv6 addressing and subnetting, Ethernet LAN, TCP/IP, DNS, HTTP, NFS, SSL, SSH, UDP, switches, routing concepts, virtual network concepts including vSwitch, VLANs, dvSwitch, TCP/IP stack for virtualization, IPVP4, IPV6, FTP, Intranet    Database Postgre SQL, MS Access, SQL Server, MYSQL and Sybase, Oracle, DB2, JDBC, ODBC  Application Servers Web logic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, Apache tomcat5.5, IIS  Issue Tracking Tools ATLASSIAN JIRA, BUGZILLA, Mantis  Delivery Tools Saltstack, Chef & Puppet