Lead Python Developer Lead <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Python Developer - Liberty Mutual Insurance Charlotte, NC ? More than 12 Years of experience in Web Application Development & Designing.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) Programming.  ? Experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts in Java and Python  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Vast experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including JDBC, Spring, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Hibernate.  ? Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, JDBC, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  ? Expert in utilizing Python libraries wxPython, NumPy, Pandas, Twisted and Matplotlib.  ? Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  ? Executed queries using Hive and developed MapReduce jobs to analyze data.  ? Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  ? Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using REST, SOAP, WSDL  ? Hands on UML compliant high level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer.  ? Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds.  CORE TECH SKILLS  ? Python, Django, Numpy, Pandas, SciKit, Jupyter, Hadoop, MapReduce, Spark, Hive, Pig, BigQuery, JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, React.JS, Backbone.js, D3.js, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.js, EXT-JS, Ajax, JQuery, Dojo, Java,Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, C, C++. Work Experience Lead Python Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Charlotte, NC August 2015 to Present Accountabilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python 2.7 on Django Web Framework.  ? Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM,  ? Worked on integrating python 2.7 with Web development tools and Web Services.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Rewrote existing Python 3.6/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Worked on several python packages  ? Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python3.6 using XML, JSON.  ? Used text mining in SAS to determine links and correlation between several product factors  ? Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes.  ? Generated Sqoop scripts for data ingestion into Hadoop environment.  ? Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  ? Used various IDE's like Eclipse, Jupyter/IPython Notebooks, IDLE and Notepad++ for Pythondevelopments.  ? Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  ? Installed HDFS, AWS and developed multiple MapReduce jobs in PIG and Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  ? Wrote scala and python scripts as required for spark engine.  ? Loaded the log data and data from UI apps into Hadoop lake using Apache Kafka service.  ? Design and develop ETL APIs which will automate the data mining in different database sources.  ? Implemented native iOS applications based on client needs using provided design scope document using Objective-C, C, C++, Quartz, Core Data, Core Animation.  ? Worked on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  ? The application also look for data mining workflow and services health check and integrate HQL and SQL queries in it.  ? Worked on analyzing Hadoop cluster using different big data analytic tools including Pig, Hive, and MapReduce.  ? Enabled speedy reviews and first mover advantages by defining the job flow in Oozie to automate data loading into the Hadoop Distributed File System and PIG to pre-process the data.  ? Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  ? Developed C++, SOAP web services on UNIX and Linux platforms using soap.  ? Worked on several standard Python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc  ? Used R for prototype on a sample data exploration to identify the best algorithimic approach and then wrote scala scripts using spark machine learning module.  ? Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  ? Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  ? Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  ? Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  ? Working on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  ? Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  ? Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Rational Application Developer.  ? Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  ? Used scala scripts for spark machine learning libraries API execution for decision trees, ALS, logistic and linear regressions algorithms.  ? Designed and implemented a machine learning based system for categorizing customer contacts (tickets and live chat transcripts) which allows for faster reaction time for emerging issues (written in python and javascript using: tornado, SQLalchemy, scikit-learn, jquery, and d3.js)  ? Used python's modules like Numpy, Matplotlib and Pandas library for statistical analysis and generating complex graphical data.  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angularjs, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  ? Configured various big data workflows to run on top of Hadoop and these workflows comprise of heterogeneous jobs like Pig, Hive and MapReduce.  ? Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views  ? Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium and Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Worked with AWS, lambda, Python, and BigQuery to create log solution for up to date  analytics  ? Create new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development  ? Web development including standardizing the toolsets used from Eclipse to using Git for source control  ? Used Github repository for version control.  ? Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  ? Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  ? Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  ? Designed and Developed REST WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  ? Extensively worked on Application servers like Weblogic and Apache Tomcat.  ? Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT    Background Skills: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, Numpy, Pandas, SciKit, Jupyter, Hadoop, MapReduce, Spark, Hive, Pig, BigQuery, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, React.JS, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Java, Oracle, , PL/SQL, MS-Sql, JDBC, Maven, Data mining, text mining, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, Subversion (SVN), Windows XP, Linux Sr. Python Developer Dell Computer Corporation January 2013 to July 2015 Accountabilities:  ? Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and PHP.  ? Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  ? Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts.  ? To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  ? Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using Python scripts.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system  ? Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  ? Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as Jython  ? Used python's modules like Numpy, Matplotlib and Pandas library for statistical analysis and generating complex graphical data.  ? Worked on tool dump all mine data in in Oracle from various data mining tool like Hadoop and it will integrated with Oozie workflow.  ? Developed Kafka producer and consumers, HBase clients, Spark, shark, Streams and Hadoop MapReduce jobs along with components on HDFS, Hive.  ? Wrote MapReduce code to make un-structured data into semi- structured data and loaded into Hive tables.  ? Hosted various company-wide training sessions on Google BigQuery, Looker and data pipeline  ? Wrote Pig Latin scripts and Hive query language to process the data and also written UDF in Java and Python  ? Designed, developed and implemented new classes and objects in C++ for handling various applications.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python library.  ? Conducted Text mining to find the key words in an environment using NLTK in Python  ? Implemented business logic using Python/Django  ? Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and matPlotLib.  ? Research on Data mining techniques using python and comparing data mining algorithms.  ? Developed new C++ encapsulation wrapper classes for OCCI classes.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Developing structured, efficient and error free codes for Big Data requirements using my knowledge in Hadoop and its Eco-system.  ? Performed data cleaning, analysis/munging and visualization of large dataset like stocks data with numpy, pandas, and Matplotlib and ipython jupyter notebook.  ? Involved migrations process from Hadoop java map-reduce program to Spark-Scala APIs.  ? Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Worked on ElementTree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  ? Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jerkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  ? Utilize feature reduction and Supervised Learning to build the models using Apache Spark and scikitMachine Learning Libraries  ? Automate SAS scripts and Excel macros using Python (Pandas, Numpy, Scikit-learn).  ? Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  ? Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  ? Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO).  ? Involved migrations process from Hadoop java map-reduce program to Spark-Scala APIs.  ? Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  ? Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases.  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Spring, Struts, Hibernate and EJB deployed on Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  ? Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  ? Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  ? Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  ? Used Python for data analytics, data wrangling and extracting data using Pandas, Pyexcel, NumPy and SciPy.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  ? OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  ? Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  ? Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Create webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware  ? Used Webservices - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  ? Used XML WebServices using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  ? Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  ? Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  ? Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validators and JavaScript.  ? Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  ? Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT  ? Writing JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional qualityDeveloped framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  ? Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies    Background Skills: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, Numpy, Pandas, SciKit, Jupyter, Hadoop, MapReduce, Spark, Hive, Pig, BigQuery, React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Java, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, Apache CXF, SOAP, Data mining, text mining, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum, Maven. Sr. Python Developer Mercedes Benz Credit - Bloomfield, CT January 2010 to December 2012 Accountabilities:  ? Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  ? Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  ? Created data access modules in python.  ? Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? sed Python & Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange & business logic implementation between servers.  ? Worked on development of backend services using Python, SQL and Linux. Created many API's for Iscrum project which involves creating and maintaining projects in an organization. and developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL.  ? Involved in developing a video calling application using python web-sockets.  ? Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency.  ? Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  ? Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  ? Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS  ? Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  ? Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  ? Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  ? Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI  ? Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  ? Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, Angularjs, JQuery and REST Services  ? Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  ? Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other javascript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  ? Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  ? Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  ? Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  ? Prepared statements are used for communication Sql database  ? Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  ? Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  ? Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL.    Background Skills: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. Python Developer Glaxo Smith Kline - New York, NY December 2007 to December 2009 Accountabilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Made the application responsive using Bootstrap.  ? Involved in web designing using HTML , CSS, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  ? After making the applications to be responsive, worked on different mobile devices bugs (like ios and android).  ? Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  ? Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  ? Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  ? Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  ? Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Jquery.  ? Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  ? Used Adobe Experience manager for building websites, mobile apps and forms.  ? Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface    Background Skills: Python, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos Software Developer Mercy Health System - Charlotte, NC July 2005 to January 2007 Accountabilities:  ? Worked on various UI technologies like JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP tag libraries.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  ? Made the web pages Responsive using JQuery UI and bootstrap, which can be operated in both PC's and Mobiles.  ? Used advanced JavaScript concepts to validate input fields using regular expression.  ? Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with Responsive Web Design (RWD) to support the web page in Mobile browser as well.  ? Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  ? Used Bootstrap along with CSS to design web-pages by HTML.  ? Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  ? Used Jenkins as continuous integration tool for building archive files and snapshots for all applications.  ? Worked on DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  ? Added analytics and tagging functionality for all the existing pages to track all the user actions using JavaScript.  ? Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  ? Tested the application under Scrum (Agile) Methodology.  ? Created Test strategy, Test plan, execution plan and Identified test data requirements.  ? Worked on major bug fixes, which included UI issues and functionality issues as well    Background Skills: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, AEM, PLSQL, Oracle, Windows Skills MYSQL (10+ years), ORACLE (9 years), LINUX (8 years), DB2 (7 years), JBOSS (7 years) Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS  ? SQLServer, Oracle, MySQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, Eclipse, Flex Builder, NetBeans, RSA, MS Visio, Windows , Linux , Unix