Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Oxford Health Plan Columbus, OH • 9 years of Professional IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development.  • Extensive knowledge in Python, Java, MySQL, Oracle, Unix and Linux.  • Used Python with OpenStack, OpenERP (now ODOO), SQL Alchemy, DJango CMS etc.  • Configured SiteMinder web agents, Affiliate agents and RADIUS agents to provide federation of web services in the SSO environment.  • Developed website based on Django CMS.  • Sound knowledge in Spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Tornado, Ant/Maven, HTML, SQLAlchemy, Python, Shell Scripting, asyncio, gevent..  • Developing dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery & D3JS.  • Created and populated digital brochures using PageTurnPro and built photo galleries on website in the Django CMS and also using Django CMS plugin.  • Proficient in developing websites and web applications using PHP, MYSQL, HTML 4.01/5, XML, JSON,CSS, Java Script & AJAX.  • Good Knowledge of Waterfall and Agile methodologies and experienced on this.  • Good Exposure in maintaining various version controls like GIT and SVN.  • Experience in Agile development techniques and Test Driven Developments.  • Keen on learning and adaptable to any platform.  • Highly proficient in design/development of standalone and web applications using JavaScript, XML, DHTML, Ajax, Tomcat and Apache Application server over various platforms (UNIX, Linux, and Windows).  • Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Good experience in building and testing Google app search engine using python.  • Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts and bash scripting.  • Participated in all phases of the System Development Life Cycle Analysis (SDLC).  • Expert in C and C++ languages. Written C and C++ applications and also migrated many legacy applications to Python.  • Built Microservices using spring boot, spring security and deployed to AWS cloud.  • Extensive experienced on modern front-end templating frameworks for JavaScript - Including Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular JS, Node.js, backbone JS, Ext JS, D3 JS etc. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Oxford Health Plan - Columbus, OH July 2015 to Present Oxford Health Plans, a UnitedHealthcare company, offers health care benefits to employers and individuals primarily in New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut.  Oxford's commercial insured products and services include traditional health maintenance organizations, preferred and exclusive provider organizations, point-of-service plans and consumer-driven health plans. In addition, Oxford also offers Medicare plans and third-party administration of employer-funded benefits plans.    Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Used Python with OpenStack, OpenERP (now ODOO), SQL Alchemy, DJango CMS etc.  • Provide team guidance from agile experience/learning and day-to-day support to the scrum team.  • Configured SiteMinder web agents, Affiliate agents and RADIUS agents to provide federation of web services in the SSO environment.  • Developed website based on Django CMS.  • Developing dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery & D3JS.  • Created and populated digital brochures using PageTurnPro and built photo galleries on website in the Django CMS and also using Django CMS plugin.  • Configuring SSO for different applications in different domains with Cookie Provider and troubleshooting issues related to them.  • Maintenance and development of a high-traffic and -demand site and platform running on a custom-rolled Django CMS.  • Managing content population and deployments through Django CMS.  • Experience in designing and developing interactive User Interfaces, usability, web and client/server applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Installing new WebAgents on Unix Apache servers and Windows IIS servers for implementing SSO for new applications.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using SVN version control system.  • Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the Node.js environment.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration. Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Wrote JSX code in updating the React DOM and also worked with states and props in initializing the child components using this set method.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).    Environment: Python, Django, Django-cms, SSO, database access, Django-cms plugins, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Agile, JavaScript, Eclipse, Weblogic, Git, GitHub, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Xml, SOA, AJAX. Sr. Python Developer Dell Computer Corporation - Boston, MA December 2014 to June 2016 Description: Dell Inc. (stylized as DELL) is a multinational computer technology company based in Round Rock, Texas and, along with Dell EMC, is a subsidiary of Dell Technologies, Dell manufactures, sells, repairs, and supports personal computers (PCs), servers, data storage devices, network switches, computer software, computer peripherals, high-definition televisions, cameras, printers, and electronics built by other manufacturers. Computer software, or simply software, is a part of a computer system that consists of data or computer instructions, in contrast to the physical hardware from which the system is built.    Responsibilities:  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Implementation of fully API based SSO architecture using CA SiteMinder, CA IDM, PingFederate, and Radiant Logic Virtual Directory Server which accomplishes end applications integration with SSO easier.  • Developed a Django CMS based promotion management system offering the ability to created arbitrary forms through an admin interface.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript and Bootstrap, connecting to a RESTful server on a different domain.  • Developed numerous websites ranging from large university sites to small marketing microsites with django CMS. Some being both multi-site and multi-lingual.  • Administered existing Single Sign On(SSO) and SAML applications implemented through SiteMinder.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-ful server on a different domain.  • Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands and used Custom Node.JS proxy to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete and to proxy.  • Led the development of parsers for handling JSON, XML responses and JAXB binding and worked with JMS (java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Design, develop, and deploy engaging web applications using Python.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and pymongo.  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  • Developed a complete front-end application with Bootstrap.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.    Environments: Python, Django, Django-cms, SSO, database access, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Agile, MAVEN, Xml, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP, Git Sr. JAVA Python Developer Mercedes Benz Credit Corporation - Boston, MA October 2013 to November 2014 Description: Mercedes-Benz Bank AG is a universal bank with seat in Stuttgart. Daimler-Benz founded in 1979 the Mercedes Leasing GmbH and in 1987 the Mercedes-Benz Finanz GmbH. The universal bank was founded under the name DaimlerChrysler Bank in 2001 and obtained a banking license in 2002. The name was changed to Mercedes-Benz Bank in 2008.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement study, Analysis and Design.  • Designed and developed JScript, GUI for user interface with various Server Controls (textbox, labels, data grid, data list, validations controls).  • Developed Custom User Controls to reduce the Complexity in User Interface Coding and provide better look and feel.  • Used Java Script for validating client side data entry screens.  • Used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) for maintaining appearance of Web Pages.  • Developed a desktop based application in C# .NET to keep record of customer, production, sales and marketing data. MS SQL Server used as database to store records.  • Designed and developed logical and physical database models. Designed logical database model (Entity-relationship diagram) using ER Studio.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Worked in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making use of Python matplotlib library.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe and added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Wrote code using SQL Programming to perform database tasks such as inserts, updates, joins, and deletes in order to keep updated the existing ERP system in timely manner.  • Provided functional recommendations, training, and advanced documentation and data analysis support to project implementation teams throughout SDLC process such as planning, development and integration.    Environments: Python , Django, HTML/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3 Sr. python Developer People's Bank - Boston, MA May 2012 to September 2014 Money Market: As money became a commodity, the money market became a component of the financial markets for assets involved in short-term borrowing, lending, buying and selling with original maturities of one year or less. Trading in money markets is done over the counter and is wholesale. There are several money market instruments, including treasury bills, commercial paper, bankers' acceptances, deposits, certificates of deposit, bills of exchange, repurchase agreements, federal funds, and short-lived mortgage- and asset-backed securities.    Responsibilities:  • Re-designed and re-implemented the company's web functionality into a modern n-tier architecture using J2EE framework. The Existing system was built using VB and Power Builder.  • Implemented the server side design using the industry standard J2EE design patterns like Business Delegate, Service Locator, Business Interface, Session Facade, and Data Access Object.  • Utilized various Rational Rose design methodologies for developing the framework.  • Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) of business requirements with the end users and business analysts.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Spring MVC  • Developed the application using Spring framework.  • Created sequence diagrams to show the page flows using WSAD.  • Developed Client side screens in XML using XSLT.  • Developed front-end screens using JSP and Tag Libraries.  • Used Hibernate for mapping object oriented design model to relational database.  • Involved in Application development with C++ and python on IDE Tool Eclipse and web server Tomcat.  • Review of design document, code and test case documents.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Designed and developed components using Python. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Configured JMS Server setupand DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic Server.  • Migrated the code base from Subversion/Clearcase to GIT.  • Led development team using J2EE creating web enabled invoicing system for multiple location service company in NetBeans environment using Git-Hub version control.    Environment: MySQL, Oracle, Python, C, C++, Sun-Solaris, RHEL, pdb, gsoap, ODBC, Struts Framework, JavaScript, Junit, XML, WebLogic Application Server, Oracle, Maven Python Developer NWMSU - Maryville, MO May 2010 to April 2012 Project Name: Portfolio Management(PM)  Description: The main goal of this project is to enhance the services of the educational department by offering the new and existing students a web-based tool for submitting their artifacts. The new site offers students with an easy and fast system to upload artifacts both on campus and off campus. It also offers the faculty and administrator to perform their functions like viewing the reports and administrative tasks like adding, dropping students, adding new semester, enrolling students etc.    Responsibilities:    • Involved in analysis, design and development of Portfolio Management.  • Created Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Activity diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Followed iterative approach in timely manner.  • Developed front-end using JSP, HTML, CSS, JAVA Script and J query.  • Involved in development of SQL and stored procedures on MySQL  • Created database by using MySQL and wrote several SQL queries to extract data from database and wrote queries for performing various CRUD operations includes create, read, update and delete operations  • Involved in implementing database design, connectivity and access.  • Wrote MySQL queries and used JDBC API.  • Worked in Windows environment for building the application using net beans IDE.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using J Unit.  • Extensively used Collabnet subversion for version control.  • Used Glassfish Server for deploying various components of application.    Environment: Python, Django, ORM, XML, HTML, CSS, Ajax, JavaScript, MySQL, SVN, Web services, UnitTest, Jenkins, PL/SQL. Sr. Java Developer Costco - Palo Alto, CA November 2008 to April 2010 Kirkland Signature - Kirkland, WA 1987 to 1996 Costco introduced Kirkland Signature as its private label in 1992. The idea was to identify categories in which a private label product could provide brand name quality at discounted prices. To counteract the consumer confidence problem common in store branding, Kirkland Signature occasionally employs co-branding. According to Costco, while consumers may be wary of same-store-branding, they are less likely to be wary of brands that they are familiar with and trust.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in modifying, updating and testing of the component.  • Involved in group meeting with teammates and made substantial changes to the architecture to improve performance of the Application.  • Modified JSPs, used struts tag libraries and Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  • Maintained Struts architecture throughout the application.  • Developed the bean classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers  • Successfully differentiated presentation from code.  • Used multi threading and socket programming.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server.  • Created connection pools and data sources.  • Modified JavaScript to read client side activities (events) and data and event validations.  • Used WinCVS as version Control system.  • Suggested ER models and changes in the table structures  • Modified SQL, PL/SQL procedures and triggers to obtain optimize output.  • Involved in separation of components and deploying in different servers and balancing the load among each Server.  • Solved performance issues and brought optimal output from the available resources.    Environments: JAVA, J2EE, SYBASE, BEA WEBLOGIC SERVER, JSTL, SQL SERVER, STRUTS FRAME WORK, SERVLETS, JSP, EJB, WINCVS, JAVABEANS, ECLIPSE, UML, WINDOWS XP/LINUX. Education Master's Skills JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), ECLIPSE (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), TESTING (10+ years), LINUX (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming languages Python: Django, Flask, RESTful APIs, MVC  Web Development Languages HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, and PHP, Bootstrap, and JSON ,RDBMS MS SQL, and MySQL  Database Server MS SQL, Apache Tomcat, WAMP, XAMPP  Software/IDE Eclipse, Visual Studio, PyCharm  Testing methodologies Unit Test, DocTest, Nose Test, PyTest  Business Intelligence (BI) Software Tableau (8.x/9.x)    Operating Systems Windows, Linux (Ubuntu 12.x/14.x)  3D drawing software Microsoft Visio, Solidworks.