Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer Chicago, IL • 10 years of IT experience as a senior programmer in application development and production support using Python, Django, HTML, JQuery, MySQL, Oracle, C/Pro*C, Embedded C, Embedded SQL and PL/SQL in Retail warehouse and Ecommerce domains.  • Displayed and proved capability to learn any new technology and work on it in a matter of few days.  • Experience in Python with Django framework and Object oriented design with experience of application development for L2 support automation and working through complex code bases.  • Extensive experience in C/Pro*C application development experience using Agile methodologies.  • Strong exposure in writing simple and complex SQL queries and creating PL/SQL Functions, Stored Procedures.  • Experienced in re-designing PL/SQL procedures and fine tune queries to improve performance.  • Experienced in Design, Development and support of Data warehousing solutions for Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) mechanism using Datastage and Talend.  • Plenty of experience in automation of manual tasks, report generation, identifying improvement areas, requirements gathering, and working with the clients.  • Extensive experience in leading teams onsite and offshore in all the projects worked on.  • Highly experienced in system analysis and translating Software Requirement Specification (SRS) and Business Requirement Specification (BRS) into Technical Specifications and Design  • Devised robust technology solutions for unique customer needs, investigating feasible solutions and environments.  • Solved difficult roadblocks and issues, utilizing systematic analytical approach to problem solving.  • Determined optimal business logic implementations, applying best design patterns.  • Expanding personal and team knowledge on continuous basis, performing extensive self-study and effective peer training.  • Self-motivated and proactive leader with technical and exemplary communication skills.  • Results-driven, "can-do" attitude, proven problem solving and troubleshooting skills.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.  • Excellent written and verbal communication of complex ideas in simple terms.    Technical Skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer Senior Python Developer June 2006 to Present Additional Information Operating systems: HP-UX, AIX, Windows XP/2000/7  Others: Sublime text, Shell scripting, HP service manager, Service now, GDB, Dimensions, HP Quality center, VSS, Form management system (FMS), Motif, Datastage, CA workload automation, Sikuli, JIRA, Confluence, Microstrategy