Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Citi Bank Columbus, OH • 9 years of Professional IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development.  • Extensive knowledge in Python, Java, MySQL, Oracle, Unix and Linux.  • Worked on various applications using Python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans and Geany.  • Worked with Javascript Frameworks like Angular.JS2&4, Node.JS, React.JS, Backbone.JS, Bootstrap.JS, and Ext.JS.  • Contributed to all levels of the user experience and in all phases of the product development lifecycle, from defining a product's overall architecture and structure, to iterating, specifying, and polishing the interaction details for specific features.  • Extensive experience in Bootstrap.JS and Responsive Web design.  • Created Web Applications, User Interfaces and Layouts with HTML, CSS3, XHTML, DHTML, SAML, jQuery, XAML and Javascript using W3C standards.  • Good Knowledge of Waterfall and Agile methodologies and experienced on this.  • Good Exposure in maintaining various version controls like GIT and SVN.  • Experience in Agile development techniques and Test Driven Developments.  • Keen on learning and adaptable to any platform.  • Highly proficient in design/development of standalone and web applications using JavaScript, XML, DHTML, Ajax, Tomcat and Apache Application server over various platforms (UNIX, Linux, and Windows).  • Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Good experience in building and testing Google app search engine using python.  • Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts and bash scripting.  • Participated in all phases of the System Development Life Cycle Analysis (SDLC).  • Expert in C and C++ languages. Written C and C++ applications and also migrated many legacy applications to Python.  • Experience in various software developments IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse.  • Exposure and experienced in entire web development life cycle.  • Possessing strong analytical skills, an excellent team player with good leadership qualities and strong oral and written communication skills.  • Built Microservices using spring boot, spring security and deployed to AWS cloud.  • Extensive experienced on modern front-end templating frameworks for JavaScript - Including Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular JS, Node.js, backbone JS, Ext JS, D3 JS etc. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Citi Bank - New York, NY July 2015 to Present Description: Worked for Citi Bank Home Loans Mortgage Banking. Here we maintain Mortgage Data Mart (MDM) as one central, complete and consistent database that hosts the data for all mortgages for downstream systems, reports and user queries. As a loan passes through multiple stages during its life cycle, MDM provides a centralized source for all business units to work with the same information.    Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Created Node.JS middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework.  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and Javascript.  • Developed internal application using Angular.JS and Node.JS connecting to Oracle on the backend.  • Used Dojo for the client side development and validations.  • Experienced in React.js and working with React Flux architecture.  • Used React.js library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, Javascript, CSS and jQuery.  • Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, Javascript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  • Creation of REST Web Services framework for the management of data using Apache CXF.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, Ext JS and jQuery.  • Managing content population and deployments through Django CMS.  • Experience in designing and developing interactive User Interfaces, usability, web and client/server applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Installing new WebAgents on Unix Apache servers and Windows IIS servers for implementing SSO for new applications.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using SVN version control system.  • Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the Node.js environment.  • Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  • Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in Javascript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.  • Developed HTML5 Mobile application with HTML5, Java Script, jQuery, JSON and RESTful web service.  • Developed XSD for validation of XML request coming in from Web Service.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.    Environment: Python, Django, Angular.JS, Angular2/4, React.JS, Node.JS, Backbone.JS, jQuery, Bootstrap.JS, JSP, Photoshop, illustrator, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, jQuery, GWT, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Agile, JavaScript, Eclipse, Weblogic, Git, GitHub, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Xml, SOA, AJAX. Sr. Python Developer Merck & Co - Kenilworth, NJ December 2014 to June 2016 Description: Merck & Co., Inc. is one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world. Merck discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of innovative products to improve human and animal health directly and through its joint ventures.    Responsibilities:  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Created a demo website running on a Node.JS, using the Express framework, Jade, and Backbone.JS with Mustache.JS for front end MVC/ templating.  • Implemented a Node.JS server to manage authentication.  • Developed web pages using Ext JS, Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components.  • Used MVC architecture of Ext JS Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content. Management System using Backbone.JS and jQuery.  • Developed an Angular.JS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows.  • Developed numerous websites ranging from large university sites to small marketing microsites with django CMS. Some being both multi-site and multi-lingual.  • Administered existing Single Sign On(SSO) and SAML applications implemented through SiteMinder.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-ful server on a different domain.  • Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands and used Custom Node.JS proxy to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete and to proxy.  • Led the development of parsers for handling JSON, XML responses and JAXB binding and worked with JMS (java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Design, develop, and deploy engaging web applications using Python.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and pymongo.  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  • Developed a complete front-end application with Bootstrap.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.    Environments: Python, Django, Angular.JS, React.JS, Node.JS, Javascript, Backbone.JS, jQuery, Bootstrap.JS, JSP, HTML, CSS, WordPress, Ajax, jQuery, GWT, SVN, MongoDB, JBOSS, Eclipse, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Agile, MAVEN, Xml, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP, Git Sr. JAVA Python Developer Mercedes Benz Credit Corporation - Boston, MA October 2013 to November 2014 Description: Mercedes-Benz Bank AG is a universal bank with seat in Stuttgart. Daimler-Benz founded in 1979 the Mercedes Leasing GmbH and in 1987 the Mercedes-Benz Finanz GmbH. The universal bank was founded under the name DaimlerChrysler Bank in 2001 and obtained a banking license in 2002. The name was changed to Mercedes-Benz Bank in 2008.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement study, Analysis and Design.  • Designed and developed JScript, GUI for user interface with various Server Controls (textbox, labels, data grid, data list, validations controls).  • Developed Custom User Controls to reduce the Complexity in User Interface Coding and provide better look and feel.  • Used Java Script for validating client side data entry screens.  • Used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) for maintaining appearance of Web Pages.  • Developed a desktop based application in C# .NET to keep record of customer, production, sales and marketing data. MS SQL Server used as database to store records.  • Designed and developed logical and physical database models. Designed logical database model (Entity-relationship diagram) using ER Studio.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Worked in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making use of Python matplotlib library.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Wrote code using SQL Programming to perform database tasks such as inserts, updates, joins, and deletes in order to keep updated the existing ERP system in timely manner.  • Provided functional recommendations, training, and advanced documentation and data analysis support to project implementation teams throughout SDLC process such as planning, development and integration.    Environments: Python , Django, HTML/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3 python Developer CVS - Seattle, WA May 2012 to September 2013 The Concurrent Versions System (CVS), also known as the Concurrent Versioning System, is a free software client-server revision control system in the field of software development. CVS Pharmacy is a subsidiary of the American retail and health care company CVS Health, headquartered in Woonsocket, Rhode Island    Responsibilities:  • Re-designed and re-implemented the company's web functionality into a modern n-tier architecture using J2EE framework. The Existing system was built using VB and Power Builder.  • Implemented the server side design using the industry standard J2EE design patterns like Business Delegate, Service Locator, Business Interface, Session Facade, and Data Access Object.  • Utilized various Rational Rose design methodologies for developing the framework.  • Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) of business requirements with the end users and business analysts.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Spring MVC  • Developed the application using Spring framework.  • Created sequence diagrams to show the page flows using WSAD.  • Developed Client side screens in XML using XSLT.  • Developed front-end screens using JSP and Tag Libraries.  • Used Hibernate for mapping object oriented design model to relational database.  • Involved in Application development with C++ and python on IDE Tool Eclipse and web server Tomcat.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Designed and developed components using Python. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Configured JMS Server setupand DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic Server.    Environment: MySQL, Oracle, Python, C, C++, Sun-Solaris, RHEL, pdb, gsoap, ODBC, Struts Framework, JavaScript, Junit, XML, WebLogic Application Server, Oracle, Maven Software Developer Sovereign Bancorp Mortgage - Philadelphia, PA May 2010 to April 2012 Sovereign Bancorp is the holding company for Sovereign Bank. Sovereign bank is largely a thrift bank, which means it takes on bank deposits in order to issue mortgage and other types of loans and doesn't engage in corporate banking, brokering, or underwriting.    Responsibilities:    • Involved in analysis, design and development of Portfolio Management.  • Created Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Activity diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Followed iterative approach in timely manner.  • Developed front-end using JSP, HTML, CSS, JAVA Script and J query.  • Involved in development of SQL and stored procedures on MySQL  • Involved in implementing database design, connectivity and access.  • Wrote MySQL queries and used JDBC API.  • Worked in Windows environment for building the application using net beans IDE.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using J Unit.  • Extensively used Collabnet subversion for version control.  • Used Glassfish Server for deploying various components of application.    Environment: Python, Django, ORM, XML, HTML, CSS, Ajax, JavaScript, MySQL, SVN, Web services, UnitTest, Jenkins, PL/SQL. Sr. Java Developer Costco - Palo Alto, CA November 2008 to April 2010 Java Developer Costco - Kirkland, WA 1987 to 1996 Costco introduced Kirkland Signature as its private label in 1992. The idea was to identify categories in which a private label product could provide brand name quality at discounted prices. To counteract the consumer confidence problem common in store branding, Kirkland Signature occasionally employs co-branding. According to Costco, while consumers may be wary of same-store-branding, they are less likely to be wary of brands that they are familiar with and trust.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in modifying, updating and testing of the component.  • Involved in group meeting with teammates and made substantial changes to the architecture to improve performance of the Application.  • Maintained Struts architecture throughout the application.  • Developed the bean classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers  • Successfully differentiated presentation from code.  • Used multi threading and socket programming.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server.  • Created connection pools and data sources.  • Modified JavaScript to read client side activities (events) and data and event validations.  • Used WinCVS as version Control system.  • Suggested ER models and changes in the table structures  • Modified SQL, PL/SQL procedures and triggers to obtain optimize output.  • Solved performance issues and brought optimal output from the available resources.    Environments: Java, J2ee, Sybase, Bea Weblogic Server, Jstl, Sql Server, Struts Frame Work, Servlets, Jsp, Ejb, Wincvs, Javabeans, Eclipse, Uml, Windows Xp/Linux. Education Computer Science University of New York Skills Python, Django, Flask, Java, Javascript