Python Senior Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Senior Developer - AIG Fort Worth, TX • IT professional with 13 years of experience including 8 years as a Senior Python Developer with expertise in Analytics, SOA(Restful WebServices), automating runbook tasks, Network tools and utilities development and 6 years of experience as a Perl Developer with experience in automating the runbook tasks, tools, communication path through socket programming and ETL tool development    • Experience with Django Web Framework.    • Experience in developing Web application with CGI.    • Experience in analytics using Splunk 6.x    • Experience in implementing SOA concepts for bi-directional communication between Fault Management Tools and Incident Management Tool, CMDB and other in-house tools.    • Strong ability in developing advanced SQL queries to extract, manipulate, and/or calculate information to fulfill data and reporting requirements including identifying the tables and columns from which data is extracted using SQL & understanding Stored Procedures, Stored Functions, Database Triggers, and Packages using Oracle.    • Experience in design and developing the monitoring agent to monitor anomalies in the system or application notify the anomaly details Manager of Manager/EMS tools and building communication path.    • HP Quality Center and Jira for Bug Tracking and Defect Reporting. Well-versed with all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Experienced in reviewing the Code, Test Plan, Test cases and Rollout document. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Senior Developer AIG - Fort Worth, TX January 2017 to Present Location: Fort Worth, Texas, USA  Role: Python Senior Developer    • Understanding the Business Requirements and comprehending them technically.  • Development of tools such as maintenance, discovery and root cause analysis.  • Development of SOA (Restful WebServices) for integrating application with other application.  • Design and Development Web Application.  • Automated application availability and functionality validation all the environment using Rundeck, Jenkins and Python.  • Identifying area of the automation in the project and automating.  • Analyze the data and build reports using Splunk search and report.  • Build test plan for the implementation. Python Senior Developer T-Systems - Aachen, DE October 2013 to December 2016 Germany Location: Aachen Germany, Hyderabad, India  Role: Python Senior Developer    • Understood the Business Requirements and comprehending them technically.  • Provided solution approach for other application in the company to integrate with EMA tool through the SOA (Restful WebServices).  • Developed a project specific Framework to access, manipulate and compare application data.  • Designed and developed self-monitoring to monitor application components and dependencies.  • Automated all project regression testcases and also automated application functionality check in all environments.  • Integrated application with other application through RestAPI call.  • Developed project specific tools.  • Developed Web Application for hold and maintaining event definition data.  • Developed scripts for analyzing the data in the flat file (TB) and produce accurate root cause of the problem.  • Documented own code and produces technical design documentation.    Project: EMS/EMA Perl/ Python Senior Developer UBS September 2007 to October 2013 • Understood the Business Requirements and comprehending them technically.  • Developed Network programs (Socket Program) for making devices in the network communicate anomalies to fault management system. And also socket program to capture the communication from sockets/ports at the fault management environment, transform into human readable format and put it in fault management DB.  • Developed and maintained visualization web application to present the device anomalies.  • Developed programs to analyze snmptrap and transform it to human readable format and put it FM DB.  • Integrated application other application using socket programming or Web Services.  • Developed script to build application for deployment in the other environment using packaging concept in Solaris.  • Automation of the tasks performed by the system owners through Perl scripting.  • Worked on proof of concept to automate runbook tasks in the environment.    Project: CP360 Perl Developer Ness Technologies Pvt Ltd August 2006 to August 2007 Duration: 08/21/2006 - 08/18/2007  Technology: Perl, Unix Shell Scripting, Oracle SQL, PL/SQL  Client: S&P Organization: Ness Technologies Pvt Ltd.  Role: Perl Developer    Responsibilities:  • Design and Develop the dynamic/generic code for loading the data from flat file to database.  • Identifying the key issues faced by the dynamic code in production and to upgrade the system with latest code updates after analyzing and testing the updates in the test environment.  • Resolving the issues related to the performance of the feed load.  • Writing scripts to automate the feed load and resolving issues in the production environment.  • Design and Develop the dynamic/generic code for executing informatics mappings.  • Designed and Developed parallelization of informatics mapping. There will be only confine resource (workflows) created in Informatica repository and many jobs will be executed like 3:10 ratio. All jobs will be executed simultaneously.  • Developed a shell scripts to handle parallelization and completes all jobs with the resource available.  • Creating reports of the SLAs and the team performance and presenting the reports to the upper management.  • Resolving the issues related to the performance of the scripts.  Designed and Developed suppress alert mechanism during black out period. Perl Developer Xansa October 2005 to August 2006 Project: BT - F&A (Retails)  Duration: 10/21/2005 - 08/5/2006  Technology: Perl, UNIX Shell Scripting, Oracle SQL, PL/SQL  Client: British Telecommunication Organization: HCL.  Role: Perl Developer    Responsibilities:  • Automation of all weekly and monthly scripts using Perl and Unix Shell Scripting.  • Develop SQL queries and PL/SQL programs for ORACLE database applications.  • Exported Access database data to Excel for data analysis.  • Documented user requirements using ORACLE Designer and TOAD.  • Analyze the existing system interfaces, communication and reporting procedures and business practices.  • Developed database triggers as for auditing and database package for faster performance.  • Gathered, interpreted, and, documented business requirements.  • Conducted presentations for clients and team members on work related issues.  • Designed, developed and maintained tables in Oracle 8i RDMS. Perl Developer Xansa August 2005 to August 2006 Project: Horizon  Duration: 08/08/2005 - 08/18/2006  Technology: Perl, Unix Shell Scripting, Oracle SQL, PL/SQL  Client: British Telecommunication Organization: Xansa.  Role: Perl Developer    Responsibilities:  • Association in client Interactions for technical feasibility assessment and requirement analysis.  • Developed the Unix shell scripts, Perl Scripts for loading the data into database, Auto transfer of file from development boxes to Production boxes and same time we write scripts for checking the size of the raw file, archiving.  • Key responsibility to load the BT employee's salary information into database and make them visible online (For loading data automatically we developed shell scripts and making available online we developed web application which is combination of Oracle PL/SQL (Stored Procedures) and Java Script.  • Implementation and maintenance of web application and database of ePayslip, eP60 and eBonus Notification. Education Master in Computer Science Andhra University 2001 to 2003 Bachelor in Computer Science & Statistics Andhra University 1997 to 2000 Skills ORACLE (10+ years), PYTHON (10+ years), PERL (9 years), SCRIPTING (8 years), MYSQL (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Python 2.7 & 3.x, Perl, UNIX Shell  Scripting, SQL, J2SE  Web Framework: Django    Analytic tool: Splunk    EMS Tools: IBM Netcool Omnibus Suite, CA SOI    Build Tools: Jenkins    Automation Tools: Rundeck, Jenkins    Operating System: Solaris, Linux, Aix, Windows    Version Control: Subversion    SDLC Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall, V-Model.    Requirements & Bugs Tools: Jira    Database: Oracle, MYSQL, Sybase