Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Liberty Mutual Insurance Boston, MA ? More than 9 Years of experience in Web Application Development & Designing.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) Programming.  ? Experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts in Java and Python  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Vast experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including JDBC, Spring, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Hibernate.  ? Extensively worked on Unix Shell Scripting to process transferred files from Third-party vendors to company Database servers.  ? Experienced in Application Development using Python, RDBMS and Linux shell scripting and performance tuning.  ? Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, JDBC, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  ? Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  ? Experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB  ? Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  ? Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using REST, SOAP, WSDL  ? Hands on UML compliant high level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer.  ? Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds.    Core Tech Skills  ? Python, Django, JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, React.JS Backbone.js, D3.js, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.js, EXT-JS, Ajax, JQuery, Dojo, Java,Spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, NoSQL, REST API, JDBC, C, C++.  Additional tech skills  ? SQLServer, Oracle, MySQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, Eclipse, Flex Builder, NetBeans, RSA, MS Visio, Windows , Linux , Unix Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Charlotte, NC August 2015 to Present Accountabilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM,  ? Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Moved Application from Solaris to Linux RedHat for system benchmark  ? Problem analyzed and performance tuned for the author environment using shell scripting in UNIX  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used NoSQL database Apache Cassandra to load the data in database  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Worked on several python packages  ? Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  ? Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes.  ? Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  ? Developed shell scripts, on linux platform, to process data from upstream systems that were scheduled to be executed at specific times by Autosys  ? Worked on back-end procedure development, for RDBMS, Database Applications using SQL and PL/SQL. Hands on experience on writing Queries, Stored procedures, Functions and Triggers by using SQL.  ? Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  ? Worked on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  ? Managed threats found by the company's Cisco FireSIGHT IDS/IPS appliance  ? Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  ? Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  ? Maintained and supported N-tier Restful Webservice used for flight searches. This webservice was built using NoSql Couchbase, ElasticSearch,  ? Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  ? Wrote and executed various RDBMS, MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  ? Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT and LINUX operating systems  ? Working on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  ? Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Rational Application Developer.  ? Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angularjs, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  ? Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views  ? Integrated of IDS/IPS to ArcSight ESM and analyze the logs to filter out False positives and add False negatives in to IDS/IPS rule set.  ? Create new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development  ? Web development including standardizing the toolsets used from Eclipse to using Git for source control  ? Used Github repository for version control.  ? Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  ? Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  ? Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  ? Designed and Developed REST WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  ? Extensively worked on Application servers like Weblogic and Apache Tomcat.  ? Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT    Background Skills: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, React.JS, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Java, Oracle, , PL/SQL, MS-Sql, RDBMS, NoSQL, JDBC, Maven, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, Subversion (SVN), Windows XP, Linux Sr. Python Developer Dell Computer Corporation August 2013 to May 2015 Accountabilities:  ? Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and PHP.  ? Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  ? Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts.  ? To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  ? Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using Python scripts.  ? Used NoSQL in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MS SQL to store and analyze info.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system  ? Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  ? Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as Jython  ? Worked on IDS/IPS using Cisco Firepower Source.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python library.  ? Implemented business logic using Python/Django  ? Developed and maintained Perl/Shell scripts for build and release tasks. Used internal commands in UNIX shell scripting  ? Worded streaming the data between Kafka and other databases like CassandraDB, NoSQL.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  ? Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Worked on ElementTree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  ? Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jerkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  ? Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  ? Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  ? Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO).  ? Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases.  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Spring, Struts, Hibernate and EJB deployed on Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  ? Wrote SQL queries and maintained PostgreSQL RDBMS in the local development environment.  ? Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  ? Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  ? Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  ? OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  ? Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  ? Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Create webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware  ? Used Webservices - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  ? Used XML WebServices using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  ? Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  ? Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  ? Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validators and JavaScript.  ? Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  ? Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT  ? Writing JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional qualityDeveloped framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  ? Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies    Background Skills: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Java, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, Apache CXF, SOAP, RDBMS, NoSQL, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum, Maven, Linux. Python Developer Mercedes Benz Credit - Bloomfield, CT March 2011 to July 2013 Accountabilities:  ? Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  ? Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  ? Created data access modules in python.  ? Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? sed Python & Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange & business logic implementation between servers.  ? Worked on development of backend services using Python, SQL and Linux. Created many API's for Iscrum project which involves creating and maintaining projects in an organization. and developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL.  ? Involved in developing a video calling application using python web-sockets.  ? Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency.  ? Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  ? Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  ? Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS  ? Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  ? Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  ? Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  ? Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI  ? Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  ? Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, Angularjs, JQuery and REST Services  ? Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  ? Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other javascript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  ? Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  ? Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  ? Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  ? Prepared statements are used for communication Sql database  ? Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  ? Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  ? Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL.    Background Skills: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. Web Developer Capital One - New York, NY February 2009 to February 2011 Accountabilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  ? Made the application responsive using Bootstrap.  ? Involved in web designing using HTML , CSS, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  ? After making the applications to be responsive, worked on different mobile devices bugs (like ios and android).  ? Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  ? Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  ? Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Jquery.  ? Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  ? Used Adobe Experience manager for building websites, mobile apps and forms.  ? Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface    Background Skills: HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos Software Developer Navisys - Charlotte, NC July 2007 to January 2009 Accountabilities:  ? Worked on various UI technologies like JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP tag libraries.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  ? Made the web pages Responsive using JQuery UI and bootstrap, which can be operated in both PC's and Mobiles.  ? Used advanced JavaScript concepts to validate input fields using regular expression.  ? Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with Responsive Web Design (RWD) to support the web page in Mobile browser as well.  ? Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  ? Used Bootstrap along with CSS to design web-pages by HTML.  ? Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  ? Used Jenkins as continuous integration tool for building archive files and snapshots for all applications.  ? Worked on DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  ? Added analytics and tagging functionality for all the existing pages to track all the user actions using JavaScript.  ? Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  ? Tested the application under Scrum (Agile) Methodology.  ? Created Test strategy, Test plan, execution plan and Identified test data requirements.  ? Worked on major bug fixes, which included UI issues and functionality issues as well    Background Skills: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, AEM, PLSQL, Oracle, Windows Education Master's