Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Cardinal Health Columbus, OH ? Strong ability in development of web based applications using Python also experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts in Java and Python.  ? Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server side applications Django, Flask, WebPy, BottlePy and Pyramid.  ? Worked on refactoring the code (Struts, JSP and JavaScript) by restructuring it for better performance.  ? Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  ? Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST and knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA and Bugzilla worked in SQL databases MS SQL, Apache Cassandra, Oracle and MongoDB.  ? SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance (Bulk Binds, Materialized views, Inline views, Global Temporary Tables).  ? Good Experience in debugging the issues using pdb  ? Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy&bottlePy framework.  ? Extensive experience in developing applications using Java API, Swing, HTML 4/5, Flex, JavaScript, CSS2/3, JQuery, JDBC, JSF, JMS, XML.  ? Leveraging queueing architectures with Rabbit MQ for scalability, performance and building.  ? Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  ? Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  ? Worked on Python Testing frameworks like zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework.  ? Proficient in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, Notepad++ and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  ? Hands-on experience in UNIX and Linux Kernels (file validations, file downloads, workflow executions).  ? Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  ? Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  ? Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  ? Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Cardinal Health - Columbus, OH September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria,  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Build UI security components in Angular and roles are assigned accordingly.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Django-Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  ? Designed and built a reporting module that uses Apache Spark SQL to fetch and generate reports.  ? Customized open source data catalogue solutions.  ? Customized and integrated Maps using the JavaScript.  ? Used ESRI Maps for the spatial analysis and Updated route maps and filtering of maps is achieved using JS Modules.  ? Used XLWT and XLWS to generate the file format in excel sheets.  ? Updated project plan timely with manager and SADC.  ? Deployment of code to the QA and then to Prod server is performed using fabfile written in Python.  ? Used Gulp to minify the project files.  ? Automated email notification using celery and RabbitMQ for status of jobs and pending task list manager to users and admin.  ? Managed Team of 3 in building the web services and developing UI screens.  ? Delivered automated solutions for existing modules.  ? Involved in Spatial analysis for GIS project using ESRI and ArcGIS in BIG DATA platform  ? Checked status of deployed applications & created weekly reports needed by different teams.  ? Automated the jobs using Django-celery, REDIS, KAFKA and RABBITMQ.    Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX.    Nationwide- Columbus, OH Sr. Python Developer AngularJS March 2013 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in preparing Technical requirements and Business requirement documents and translated business rules into business component modules.  ? Designed User Interfaces using AngularJS, NodeJS, JQuery, Bootstrap, JavaScript, CSS, XML and HTML.  ? Designed web UI components for various modules using, VueJS, ReactJS and CSS and used JavaScript client side validation.  ? Implemented Django MVC architectural design pattern.  ? Used Angular Js as the development framework to build the User Interface.  ? Server-side templating languages such as Jinja2, Mako, were re used in the Technology stack for the development.  ? Built REST end points using Django framework and developed multiple rest services.  ? Built REST services using Node JS framework.  ? Design, investigation and implementation of public facing websites on Amazon Web Services AWS.  ? Responsible for project planning including code review, configuration management and developer tools.  ? Created a highly-scalable, distributed system for running Web applications and Web services by working with architects and developers and ensuring the implementation of Restful Web services and API design.  ? Automated the deployment using Shell scripting for build and release operations.  ? Worked on Integration of Amazon Web Services AWS with other applications infrastructure.  ? Used OAUTH and SSO for authentication and Login services.  ? Used Elastic Search as the data indexer and query parser  ? All the Python code is formatted in PEP8 Coding standard.  ? Used decorators for security management.  ? Generated reports using Python ReportLab module.  ? Performed ETL operation on the existing data using Python pet1 module.  ? Processed large sets of data into simpler units is achieved using Python libraries.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  ? Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Having very good experience with BIG DATA  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  ? Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  ? Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  ? Version control using GITHub.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python, Bootstrap, REST, NodeJS, AWS, Django REST, Flask, CentOS, Angular 2, Express, Angular 1, Vue JS, React JS, Celery, AMQP, SQL developer, ETL, Jenkins, PyCharm, Oracle 10g/11g, XML, Java Script, CSS, HTML, CVS, Slack, Apache Web server, KAFKA, RabbitMQ, RedisCX_Oracle, Gunicorn, Postgres, OSX, Windows OS, SharePoint Python Developer Ernst & Young - New York, NY May 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  ? Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX Software Developer TIAA-CREF - New York, NY October 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  ? Programmed the components using C/C++.  ? Software release to internal clients by compiling the code into C/C++ libraries and implementing the APIs.  ? Created UI using HTML CSS and Java script.  ? Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic.  ? Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database.  ? Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  ? Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  ? Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  ? Debugging Software for Bugs.    Environment: C, C++, HTML, CSS, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, JDBC, PVCS, Oracle, Linux and Windows Software Developer Tenet Healthcare - New York, NY June 2007 to September 2009 Sept 2009    Responsibilities:  ? Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  ? Worked with the design team for project structure.  ? Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  ? Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  ? Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  ? Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  ? Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  ? Worked with the design team for project structure.  ? Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  ? Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  ? Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  ? Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Linux, Shell Scripting, JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache Web Server, XML, XSL, HTML, JavaScript, JBOSS, Oracle 10g, Windows, Web Services. Education Masters in Computer and Information Science University of Dallas Skills JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), LINUX (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years) Additional Information Skills  AJAX (7 years), CSS (8 years), Django (8 years), MySQL (8 years), XML (7 years)    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Mac OS  Languages C, C++, Java, Python2.x/3.x, Shell Script, Perl  Framework Django and Flask Web framework  Databases MySQL, Sqlite3, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Pl/SQL, SQL Server, MongoDB, SQLAlchemy  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, AJAX, Bootstrap, Angular JS, React JS  Web Server Apache, Jenkins, WebSphere, WAMP  Tools & Framework Azure, Visual Studio, Eclipse, Microsoft Visio, Sublime, PyCharm