Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Cognizant New York, NY Senior Python Developer - Cognizant Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer Cognizant - Teaneck, NJ June 2015 to Present Pitch is a pluggable product to different CRM systems. Mainly targeted to sales personnel to deliver targeted marketing messages, design and conduct a sales cycle customized to organization's business work flow and even measure user interaction and content usage metrics via an integrated analytics data engine. Pitch currently supporting for Exchange, SharePoint, Dropbox and Salesforce. Main features are offline access to documents and appointments.  Responsibilities  • As a Python Developer, I designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  • Worked on Python Modules and Packages.  • Developed web page and form validation with team using Angular.JS, React.Js, Bootstrap.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, HTML5, CSS & JavaScript.  • Used Angular.JS to develop MVC app (Models, Views and Controllers) which integrated with the Back-end RESTful services with AJAX ($http) to perform GET & POST data to backend servers.  • Used web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and, JQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JavaScript for server-side rendered application.  • Built reusable and customizable components for the new website using React.JS and React-Routes to create a single page web application  • Worked extensively on developing a shell-script which automates the packaging of the project and deploys it from Jenkins to the production server when the project is pushed to the GitLab.  • Made REST APIs call to third party API to pull significant details with some validation.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL Workbench for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Build sing page apps, modules, graphics and reusable components using Angular.JS, React.Js, Bootstrap.js, Node.js, Backbone  • Maven build, Jenkins & canary pipeline for EAR file to Jboss EAP and Ansible for UI zip file deployment to EWS server  • Brought cloud-based (AWS Amazon Web Services) software cluster search web application from conceptualization to launch as lead project developer  • Implementing DWR-Ajax for Java for asynchronous HTTP requests.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Used React.JS in developing modular, compo- sable component and made use of props and sates. Maintained the Project in one store with the help of Redux.  • Developed Test Driven Development (TDD), pair programming and continuous integration using JUnit, JBehave and Jenkins.  • Set up build jobs and oversee smooth working of Hudson and Bamboo continuous integration build systems as well as Sonatype Nexus build artifact repository.  • Supporting data analysis projects using Elastic Map Reduce on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from MySQL Workbench to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Implemented Angular Google Maps with Angular UI in applications Experimented with developing rich features in HTML5 and CSS3 (which was getting popular then).  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Worked on Python Openstack API's, used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Worked with Angular.JS for creating own HTML elements for building a companied website which is an open source project. Working knowledge of transpiler like Babel i.e. converting ES16 files into JavaScripts  • Developed responsive web pages using Twitter Bootstrap and media queries.  • Performed Branching, Tagging, Release Activities on Version Control Tools: SVN, GIT andPolling the Cloud SCM for new Commits in Jenkins and Hudson.  • Hands-on executive with all aspects of project management and product development on Java architecture hosted on low cost VM ESX hosts in the Cloud along with Amazon Web Services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL Workbench for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages.  Experience in mobile testing platforms like Strider, QRD, QXDM and Perl Scripts.  • Used Javascript, Angular JS in developing single page applications. Developing front end screens using Angular2, Twitter Bootstrap, Javascript, Backbone.js for creating grid layout, responsive screen sizes and devices. Developed custom directives (elements, Attributes and classes).  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Database Connectivity (JDBC) for Databases like MongoDB, SQL Server, NOSQL, PL/SQL, MySQL, MS Access  • Designed and developed the user portal using angularJS 2 along with HTML, CSS and TypeScript.  • UI development technologies such as JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, GWT  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Worked on Python Openstack API's, used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL Workbench database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package  • Worked with HTML and CSS for website design, JavaScript for scripting, and used Express.JS and Node.JS frameworks for server-side connectivity.  • Used version control tools like GIT, SVN and TFS to manage and control software development.  • Extensively used Twitter Bootstrap for creating grid layout, responsive screen sizes and devices. Worked on NodeJs scripts, Karma, Jasmine for unit testing.  • Developed Single Page applications using AngularJS using components, directives using Javascript, Backbone.js, TypeScript and NodeJs.  • Provided connections using Spring JDBC to the database and developed SQL queries to manipulate the data.  • Experience on implementation of version control software SVN, CVS, GIT repositories.  • Hands on experience on JMS messaging system.  • Developing scalable front-end user interfaces using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS and Mongo DB.  • Designed and developed UI Search and results screens for SDWCS operators and other agencies using JSP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Developed the presentation layer (UI) using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, Flash, CSS and client validations using Node.Js and JavaScript. Implemented Presentation layer using JSP, Servlets , HTML  • API distributed in multiple domain modules with multithreading, currently supporting Couchbase as database and running on the latest next generation edge technologies like Docker, Angular 2, Spring.  • Expertise in object oriented JavaScript Libraries including Various Plug-Ins like Angular.JS and Node JS.  • Created Javascript, TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 2.  • Good experience of using MySQL. Good experience in Java and fixed issues.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using Agile Model.  • Worked with Angular 2 and typescript as part of migration from Angular and vanilla javascript to Angular 2 and React.  • Developed the Java components to access content from content providers (via HTTP, FTP) to obtain data of various types XML, XSL, XSLT and HTML.  • Development of AJAX toolkit based applications using JSON.  • Data modeling using Database development skills with Hadoop, Big data, Cassandra, NoSQL, JDBC, DB2, CRUD MongoDB, Oracle, MySQL  • Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML.  • Used NoSQL database systems- Neo4j, a graph database to store and query data.  • Created tables, stored procedures in SQL for data manipulation and retrieval, Database Modification using SQL, PL/SQL, Stored procedures, triggers, Views in Oracle  • Experience in developing, deploying enterprise applications on IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, Oracle Application Server, JBoss, Tomcat, Jetty. Dealing with JSON data feeds.  • Extensive experience working on databases: Sybase, Oracle, MS SQL, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL.  • Worked on Solr, ElasticSearch, Kafka, Flume, MongoDB , Cassendra and RabbitMQ.  • Back-end access to Oracle, which used to query/update the database for enhanced reporting and advanced search of the data using Hibernate. Working with Cassandra and MongoDB  • Used GIT as repository, Github and Jenkins to build and deploy the project into Fuse server.  • Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases  • Designing, Coding (development) and Debugging application using Eclipse Indigo as an IDE, Spring JDBC framework and DAO pattern, HTML5, CSS3, and JQuery  • Development of front-end application using HTML, CSS, Javascript, Angular.JS, Dependency injection, Rx and Http modules with Node.js server for future evolutions  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications. Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit. Maintained high level of unit test coverage through test driven development.  • Created MAVEN archetypes for generating fully functional REST web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation. Archetypes built on Spring technology.  • Experience developing web Kit and search Engine. Hands on experience with UNIX Shell Scripting.  • Built Single Page Apps using Angular 2 and Typescript for Responsive Design.    Background Skills:  HTML, CSS, Javascript, Python, Django, Jenkins, Strider, Hudson, Cloud, HTTP protocol, JSON, TypeScript, Node.Js, Angular.Js, Bootstrap.Js, Backbone.Js, React.js, Java, Cassandra, NoSQL, Oracle, MongoDB, Crud, PL/SQL, MSSQL, MySQL, JDBC, Git, Github, CVS, Rest, SOAP, WebServices, Weblogic, UML, Eclipse, Junit, Itext, Subversion SVN, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development TDD. Senior Python Developer AMAZON.COM INC - Seattle, WA April 2013 to May 2015 Amazon.com, Inc. is an American electronic commerce company with headquarters in Seattle, Washington. It is the largest Internet-based retailer in the United States. Designed & implemented a similarity algorithm that uses text in a given product to find its potential duplicates in the catalog. Test-driven development using Java, Oracle SQL, and Groovy on an internal ETL database management service and many related services.  Responsibilities  • Worked on transformation of inheritance and out sourced UI by using Javascript, Bootstrap, Ember.js, Backbone.js, Angular js, Node.Js, React.js and JQuery.  • Used Angular MVC and two-way data binding. Worked on automation scripts using Selenium in JAVA. Experience in using JavaScript build tools and dependency management like Grunt, npm.  • Designed and developed the user portal using Javascript, React, Ember.js, Backbone.js, Angular.JS along with HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • UI development technologies such as JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, GWT  • Good understanding in Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Ember.js, Jasmine, Karma, Backbone.js, React.js, MyBatis, require.js, node.js framework concepts and Responsive Design.  • Scalable, database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks: ASP.NET on C#, Flask on Python, and PHP.  • Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs with Javascript, Bootstrap, Ember.js, Backbone.js, Angular.js and Node.js. Used Node.JS for asynchronous data communication between server and client.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed (TDD) and continuous deployment & continuous integration CI/CD using Jenkins.  • Configured and scheduled jobs for multiple projects on Hudson.  • Pioneer application hosting on cloud infrastructure using Amazon Web Services AWS.  • Used JavaScript & Titanium tools. Implemented the entire Prototype of email app, including SQL Lite database schema and query design, JS based HTTP request to fetch email data and UI design & implementation.  • Accessed and manipulated the Oracle database environment by writing SQL queries in the oracle sql developer for testing purpose. Managed Database design, creation and querying of the whole project. Wrote MySQL queries, store procedures and triggers.  • Automated the continuous deployment & continuous integration process using Jenkins and TeamCity.  • Involved in enhancing the build procedures using Maven and Hudson jobs.  • Used AWS Amazon Web Services EC2 to deploy our team's projects on to the public cloud.  • Consumed web services using VB.NET to interact with the other applications and exposed them using SOAP and HTTP. Designed and developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML, JSON, JQuery and CSS  • Developed automation scripts to test storage appliances in Python.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Experience in developing scalable front-end user interfaces using HTML, CSS, Backbone and JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS and Mongo DB.  • Automation of the build process using Continuous Integration tools like Continuum and Jenkins  • Created hybrid cloud by combining private cloud and public cloud (using AWS Amazon web services) and used it for public scaling.  • Designing the web client by using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, EXT JS, and DOJO with JSON.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Worked with Angular UI-Bootstrap to develop different custom component like carousel, date-picker and accordion. JSON to java marshaling and unmarshaling using Jackson.  • Using different databases JDBC, MySQL, MongoDB, MS SQL, Oracle, SQL Server and DB2 Client. Strong experience of writing Functions, Procedures and Triggers.  • Involved in Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Oracle database with Python.  • Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Backbone.js, and Celery  • Used React JS to create controllers to handle triggers  • Implemented Web services using apache API and tested them using SOAP UI. Integrated the SOAP Web services to RESTful Web Services.  • Built website and database system for in house, programmed in Python through Django streamline framework  • Administered both Git and Subversion repositories for an enterprise code off.  • Worked with python Unit test library which was used for testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Part of team implementing REST API's in Python, Flask and SQLAlchemy for management of data center resources on which OpenStack cluster is deployed.  • Python and PHP web application development using the SQLAlchemy.  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Wrote and maintained application for day to day use for the company using Python and Django that store client data into database in json format.  • Used React JS to create views to hook up models to the DOM.  • Developed DAOs (Data Access Object) to interact with JDBC, MongoDB, MYSQL, MS SQL, DB2.  • Wrote SQL queries and Stored Procedures for interacting with the Oracle database. Involved in Test Driven Development by writing JUnit test case in the coding part of Java methods  • Used Pylint to check for errors in Python code, tries to enforce coding standards and get details about code's complexity  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, and JSON.  • Implemented a responsive style jQuery carousel in Javascript, Angular, Backbone.js, HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Java environment.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base by maintaining PEP-8 code standards and fix the bugs.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations  • Created webservices using WTP tool plugin to the eclipse IDE which is deployed as a separate application using Maven scripts.  • Involved in preparing the test cases using JUnit test case and in the testing phase  • Developed REST/HTTP APIs to achieve effective and low cost of application integration.  • Configured persistence-Context in Spring JPA and Hibernate as a persistence provider to interact with Oracle database.  • Developed business services with, JSON, XML, SOAP and Restful Web Services technologies.  • Involved in JUnit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  • Writing production-grade Javascript, Node.js and Ext JS applications.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Javascript, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Bootstrap.js and jQuery.  • Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade.    Background Skills:  CSS, HTML5, JSP, Python, Jenkins, Hudson, Cloud, HTTP protocol, JSON, Javascript, Node.Js, Bootstrap.Js, React.js, Angular.Js, Backbone.Js, DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, Cassandra, NoSQL, MongoDB, MySQL, MS SQL, Web Services, REST, SOAP, Junit, Jira, GIT, GITHUB, Subversion (SVN), Maven, SOA, JMS, Tomcat, Linux, UML, Eclipse Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development. Senior Python Web Developer PAYPAL - San Jose, CA October 2011 to March 2013 PayPal is a worldwide online payment system. Online money transfers serve as electronic alternatives to traditional paper methods like checks and money orders. PayPal is one of the world's largest internet payment companies. In this project I have Implemented PayPal Infrastructure monitoring solution, enabling real-time monitoring of PayPal systems and applications in operation. This application helps in Real time fraud prevention, Provide Well Guarded information and is Safer from threats.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, and jQuery, Ajax.  • Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS, Angular.js, Node.js and JavaScript.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and development of responsive UI using with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, MEAN stack (MongoDB, Express, Angular, and Node JS) and React JS.  • Developed single page applications (SPAs) using AngularJS to improve page performance.  • Developed a project in Python using Client and Worker methodologies.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for developing reusable components using Custom Directives in AngularJS.  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Implemented Python scripts to import raw data from web into PostgreSQL database.  • Involved in adding AJAX, JavaScript components to some of the jsp pages wherever needed.  • Enhanced the functionality of screens using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery.  • Work directly with developers to design and code Designate using python  • Used JavaScript for Client Side validations.  • Designed and developed the web-tier using Html, JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, JSP, Ext.js, Servlets, DOJO, Struts and Tiles framework.  • Developed PL/SQL store procedures for data migration and database upgrade from oracle using MYSQL, SQL Server, DB2, Coherence, TOAD.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, Angular.js, Node.js, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Developed the CRUD API for the POS Engine using Restful, Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  • Collaboration technology planning, social media adoption and metrics Web 2.0 strategy.  • Working experience in Web Services using SOAP and WSDL, JSF, JSON, JQuery, JMS and Oracle coherence.  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from IBM DB2  • Developed additional UI Components using JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Developed a smart rule engine for CAS that tracks, alerts, emails and generates Crystal/Jasper reports for decision-makers in a company about any customer-employee issue whenever the rule is applicable.  • Developed J2EE components using Netbeans as IDE.  • Developed ANT scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server.  • Developing test suites in Selenium WebDriver (Java) with TestNG framework in Eclipse IDE  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML. Designed the flow of the project using Water Fall Model.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  • Interfaced with the Oracle back-end using Hibernate Framework and config files.  • Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  • Developed common reusable component libraries (CRUD Scaffolding) to be reused in different projects throughout the company's IT team using GWT, Sencha EXT JS, Spring data, JPA.  • Contributed to organization of testing and quality improvement process (JIRA, Confluence).  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  • Experience using Dojo Components and integrating back-end applications with AJAX driven web 2.0 front-end using OO JavaScript framework.  • Hosted and configured applications in IIS, IBM Websphere, and Apache Tomcat under Windows and AIX  • Used Resource Manager to schedule the job in Unix server.  • Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the ERP system using VB Script and Ruby  • Develop Mercurial, ClearCase, WordPress themes to meet the needs of the small business owner.  • Developed modules of the application in ASP.NET, Silverlight and involved in writing C# classes.  • Design of the process flow in Oracle BPM and jBPM to evaluate the difference between the behavior of different Oracle BPM tools.  • Experience with Version Control Tools such as Subversion, Mercurial, PVCS, SVN and IBM ClearCase.  • Design and implement batch & entry code system and book keeping service (IBM MQ Series, Broadridge ADP, Mainframe, Seagull).  • Extensive Development using Zend Framework by PHP in a LAMP environment.  • Refined feature requirements and developed user interface components using JSF and Oracle ADF.  • Handling Mainframes applications Analysis requirements, especially PL/I and Business Objects Worked on database development using SQLite, SQL Server, Oracle.  • Conversions of JCL codes to equivalent Unix Shell Scripts and testing.  • Executed project using waterfall model and practiced Agile Project Management & performed the Scrum  • Developed requirements and enterprise architecture for EIA metadata, Eguide and EBI under SAS VB.  • Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  • Responsible SAS reports, analysis using SAS macros in UNIX operating system.  • Developed JavaScript and Action Script, VB Script macros for Client Side validations.  • Designing, developing and testing C/C++ and Java applications in SDLC as well as Agile environment.    Background Skills:  HTML, CSS, JavaSCript, Python, JSP, JQUERY, Servlet, Angular.js, Node.js, Ext.js, Ibatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, JBOSS, Apache AXIS2, MYSQL, TOAD, SQL Server, Wordpress, Tomcat, GWT, Jrules, SOAP, iText, WSDL, Javascript, EXT JS, Dojo, Mainframe, Jasper Report, Cobol, DB2, SAS VB, UML, Netbeans, Selenium, PL/I, ANT, EMC Documentum, Jira, Swing, ILOG, Mercurial, ClearCase, COGNOS, Waterfall. Web Application Developer Volkswagen - Herndon, VA March 2010 to September 2011 Volkswagen is one of the leading automaker. ETRACS System is a Work flow/Inventory Management system which tracks, allocates various tedious tasks to Work force, Maintains Inventory and Provides Insight for efficient management. Front End Application is designed which are used for their daily activities including plans projection, scheduling, Human Resource Management, Billing, Monitoring, Reports Generation, and Inventory Lookup etc.    Responsibilities  • Analyzed the requirements and provided inputs to the designer.  • Designed Class diagrams, framework and developed using Factory, DAO, Singleton and MVC pattern.  • Developed the business tier using Core Java and the HTTP interfaces using Servlets.  • Involved in review of the design and helped in transforming the application to an optimized solution  • Designed the helper classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers.  • JSP, HTML, Javascript, CSS and Ajax used for front end development.  • Worked with multithreading in synchronized environment.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, Angular js and JavaScript.  • Used AngularJS for developing single page web applications taking advantage of its two-way data binding to improve performance.  • Worked in modern, mobile ready responsive front end development with CSS3 media queries, AJAX, Bootstrap, Angular JS, and jQuery.  • Involved in development of GUI Using HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript.  • Extensively used JSP, HTML, CSS, Javascript for developing new pages.  • Design & Development of the User Interfaces using HTML, CSS andJSP.  • Responsible for developing GUI / user interfaces using JSP, CSS & DHTML  • Designed and developed the persistence tier using Hibernate framework.  • Implemented EJB (Session Beans) to create WAS Scheduler.  • Used Websphere data sources for the database connection and accessed using JNDI names.  • Implemented the Web sphere scheduler and provided the scheduling logic to process the Cache.  • Developed a Stored Procedures for regular cleaning of database.  • Used Oracle as relational databases and created E-R diagrams for the database tables.  • Implemented Log4j to maintain system log.  • Managed the functional and load testing by interacting with the testers and providing them the guidelines and deadlines for completion of work.    Background Skills:  HTML, CSS Jquery, Ajax, Sencha EXTJS, JSP, JSTL, Javascript, Servlet, JAVA, Hibernate, Struts, Weblogic, Apache CXF, Rest, AJAX, jQuery, JSP, Eclipse, Junit, Maven, ITEXT, GWT, Oracle, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, Software Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA February 2008 to February 2010 Capital one is one of the largest financial companies across United States of America, headquartered in Tyson's Corner, Virginia. As part of this project, I have involved in developing an application which was for Online Banking. The application provides client account information like account summaries, account details, monthly statements, balance transfers, check ordering, loan application, credit cards and financial services. More alerts and correspondences were created to enhance the online banking experience of the customers. Transactions were done using batches and web services.    Responsibilities  • Interacting with the client and analyzing the requirements to help and understand the requirements.  • Involved in all phases of SDLC.  • Designed Class diagrams, framework and developed Use case diagram and Sequence diagram.  • Application was designed and developed in Struts framework with Struts Tiles which is based on MVC  • Presentation tier was incorporated using JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Implemented the Struts Validation framework.  • Use of Java Collection API and classes such as HashMap, Array List and Vectors.  • Incorporated XML Parser such as DOM.  • Developed web services using SOAP, WSDL and Apache Axis which helped communicating through different modules of the application.  • Designed and developed internet web applications using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Implemented database transactions using Hibernate ORM framework.  • MySql was used as RDBMS. Hands on experience creating E-R diagram, complex queries and sub queries.  • Used TOAD to create complex queries and sub queries. Built and deployed WAR file on JBoss application server. Used VSS for version control of project files.  • Implemented Log4j to maintain system log.  • Developed application using MyEclipse for rapid development.  • Involved in QA support and deployed the application on Production server and supported for the real time issues.  Background Skills:  HTML, CSS, Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Weblogic, APACHE CXF, REST, JavaScript, Oracle, SQL, UML, Eclipse, JQuery, AJAX, ExtJS, Junit, MAVEN, report, ILOG, Agile, Web 2.0, SOA, Flex. Education Master's Skills CSS (10+ years), ECLIPSE (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years) Additional Information TECH SKILLS EXPERIENCE SUMMARY    CORE TECH SKILLS  Python, Django, Flask, Jenkins, Strider, Hudson, Cloud, HTTP protocol, JSON, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Node.Js, Angular.Js, Bootstrap.Js, Backbone.Js, React.js, Jquery.    ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS  Java, J2EE, Cloud, AWS, PHP, Python, C, C++, NoSQL, Hadoop, Oracle, MongoDB, CRUD, PL/SQL, MSSQL, MySQL, JDBC, Agile, TDD, Scrum, REST, SOAP, UML, WebSphere, Tomcat, Eclipse