Sr Python Developer Sr <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Python Developer - J P Morgan Chase Addison, TX * Around 10+ years of IT experience which includes 5 years as Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, AWS, C, C++ and SQL.  * Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and developed web-based applications using Python, CSS and HTML.  * Worked on applications and developed them with XML, JSON, XSL (PHP, Django, Python, Rails).  * Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  * Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  * Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  * Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  * Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  * Good experience of software development in Python and IDEs: pycharm, sublime text, Jupyter Notebook.  * Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python using HTML/CSS for server-side rendered applications.  * Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, My SQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  * Worked on Anaconda Python Environment.  * Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  * Experience in implementing python alongside using various libraries such as mat plotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL db for database connectivity, python-twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  * Experienced in using python libraries like BeautifulSoup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Python-twitter, NetworkX, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity and IDEs - Sublime Text, Spyder, PyCharm.  * Experienced in Requirement gathering, Use Case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling.  * Extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagram and sequence diagrams.  * Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, XML.  * Exceptionally solid background in composing API's along with Web Services over Python.  * Experience in using Adobe Flash, SVN, Eclipse, JIRA, Github and CVS.  * Experience working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  * Experience with Unit Testing/ Test Driven Development(TDD), Load Testing and Integration Testing.  * Experienced in version control systems using CVS, SVN and Git/Github and issue tracking tools like Jira and BugZilla.  * Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  * Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  * Experience in building frameworks and automating complex workflows using Python for Test Automation.  * Experience in implementing with server side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node JS and Django framework.  * Hands on experience in using NOSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  * Worked on UNIX shell scripts for business process and loading data from different interfaces to HDFS.  * Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application. Server.  * Good Knowledge in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  * Proficiency with the application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBOSS and Tomcat.  * Proficient in Object oriented design experience, with extensive experience of Python-C/C++ binding using Boost Python and Python C types.  * Experiences with File Handling and SSH (Secure Shell).  * Working knowledge of errors and exceptions handling debugging using PDB, Eclipse and Pycharm.  * Experience with Docker, deployment of application inside software containers.  * Excellent Debugging, Problem Solving, Optimization and Testing Skills using GitLab  * Experience in Python Development and Scientific Programing, and using Numpy and Pandas in Python for Data Manipulation.  * Experience in using Scikit-Learn and Statsmodels in Python for Machine Learning and Data Mining.  * Use of NLTK, OpenNLP & StanfordNLP for Natural Language Processing and sentiment analysis.  * Experience with SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Developer, Toad and MySQL GUI Tool. Work Experience Sr Python Developer J P Morgan Chase - New York, NY April 2017 to Present JPMorgan Chase & Co. is multinational investment bank and financial services company headquartered in New York City. JPMorgan Chase is the largest bank in the United States, and the sixth largest bank in the world by total assets, with the amount of $2.534 trillion. It is the world's most valuable bank by market capitalization.    Responsibilities  * Automate different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  * Create, activate and program in Anaconda environment.  * Worked on predictive analytics use-cases using R language  * Use Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  * Develop Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  * Manage datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  * Involved in the Web/Application development using Python 3.5, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  * Develop and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  * Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  * Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  * Clean data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific format with Excel macros and python libraries such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy and matplotlib.  * Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data.  * Helped with the migration from the old server to Jira database (Matching Fields) with Python scripts for transferring and verifying the information.  * Analyze Format data using Machine Learning algorithm by Python Scikit-Learn.  * Experience in python, Jupyter, Scientific computing stack (numpy, scipy, pandasand matplotlib).  * Perform troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  * Write Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  * Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, matplotlib.  * Analyzing various logs that are been generating and predicting/forecasting next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  * Developed single page application by using Angular JS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS.  * Design and maintain databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask and SQL Alchemy.  * Manage code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers and implement MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  * Use Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  * Design and manage API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  * Develop remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  * Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plotlib library.  * Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  * Export Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium environment.  * Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  * Scraping website using Python Beautiful Soup, and then parsed it with XML.  * Outputting the parsed data as JSON/BSON and stored into MongoDB  * Used NLTK and StanfordNLP to process text data and created offline intelligence.  * Querying data from MongoDB and use them as input for the machine learning models  * Using AWS for application deployment and configuration.  * Wrote UNIX shell scripting for automation.  * Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template Language to create a user-friendly website interface.  * Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  * Develop consumer based features using Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD).  * Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  * Increased the speed of pre-existing search indexes through Django ORM optimizations.  * Developed module to build Django ORM queries that can pre-load data to greatly reduce the number of databases queries needed to retrieve the same amount of data.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Jupyter Notebook, VIM, Pycharm, Shell Scripting, JIRA. Python Developer State of Indiana - Indianapolis, IN June 2016 to March 2017 Indiana Department of Health administers healthcare programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), and these three major national healthcare programs benefit millions of Americans.    Responsibilities:  * Worked in comprehending and examining the client's business requirements.  * Used Django frameworks and Python to build dynamic webpages.  * Developed tools for monitoring and notification using Python.  * Enhanced the application by using HTML and Java script for design and development.  * Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  * Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash and worked in tandem with the Flash developer to obtain the correct data through query string  * Involved in designing database Model, Views using python to build an interactive web based solution.  * Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  * Implemented Data tables to add, delete, update and display patient records and policy information using PyQt.  * Implemented a module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance using python.  * Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  * Improved the Data Security and generated report efficiently by caching and reusing data.  * Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  * Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python-MySQL connector and retrieved information using MySQLdb.  * Recorded the online users' data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using Pytest.  * Developed the application using the TestDriven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  * Created web application prototype using jQuery.  * Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system,  * Maintained and Updated the application in accordance to the clientele's requirement    Environment: Python 3, Django 1.6, Beautiful soup, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Restful Web services, Apache spark, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse. Python Developer CITI Bank - San Diego, CA March 2015 to May 2016 Citibank is the consumer division of financial services multinational Citigroup.[2] Citibank was founded in 1812 as the City Bank of New York, and later became First National City Bank of New York. Citibank provides credit cards, mortgages, personal loans, commercial loans, and lines of credit. The parent of Citibank, received a bailout in the form of an investment from the U.S. Treasury. On November 23, 2008, in addition to an initial investment of $25 billion, a further $20 billion was invested in the company along with guarantees for risky assets of $306 billion [4] The guarantees were issued at a time markets were not confident Citi had enough liquidity to cover loses from those investments.    Responsibilities:  * Expanded website functionality, using Flask framework in Python to control the web application logic  * Built automation script using Qualcomm API and Python BeatifulSoup to scrape data from social network and other websites using Python.  * Exchanged data with SQL database and NoSQL database such as MongoDB  * Conducted Big Data analytics using Hadoop MapReduce.  * Generated data-driven reports, data visualization using Tableau  * Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  * Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  * Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template Language to create a user-friendly website interface.  * Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  * Develop consumer based features using Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD).  * Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  * Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku.  * Increased the speed of pre-existing search indexes through DJango ORM optimizations.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Hadoop, SQL, SAS, Excel, MongoDB, Flask, JavaScript, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, AngularJS Web Developer Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc - Raleigh, NC June 2012 to December 2014 Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc. is a publicly traded company that provides physician practices, hospitals, and other healthcare providers with practice management and electronic health record technology. Allscripts also provides solutions for patient engagement and care coordination, as well as financial and analytics technology. The company has more than 180,000 physician users and has solutions in 2,700 hospitals and 13,000 extended care organizations  Responsibilities:  * Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  * Understanding of application development lifecycle methodologies.  * Built pages from Photoshop mockups using HTML, Java Script, J Query and CSS.  * Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  * Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards.  * Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  * Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  * Integrated with back end code (PHP) for highly interactive AJAX based applications.  * Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views & Triggers and calling them from JavaScript using the Temp net Framework.  * Maintained 24/7 high volume availability demands using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, PHP, and MySQL.  * Thorough understanding of the differences and bugs in various browsers and browser versions.  * Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams  * Excellent problem solving skills and the ability to work independently.  * Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.    Environment: HTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX JSON, , Bootstrap, Responsive design, Grunt, Bower, NPM. Python Developer Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc - Cupertino, CA November 2009 to May 2012 Symantec is headquartered in Mountain View, California, United States. The company provides cybersecurity software and services. Symantec is a Fortune 500 company and a member of the S&P 500 stock-market index. The company also has development centers in Pune, Chennai and Bengaluru (India).    Responsibilities:  * Used standard Python modules e.g. CSV, Robot parser, Iter tools, Pickle, Jinja2, Xml for development.  * Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  * Query and set up employee registration and login using Python PostgreSQL  * We use a multiple row data storage strategy called MVCC to make effective PostgreSQL responsive in Querying and storing in database.  * Experience for handling documented database and video file for online management system during creating online learning management solutions.  * Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  * Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  * Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using Python-twitter library.  * Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  * Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes for Learning Management System  * Used Python Flask framework to build modular & maintainable applications.  * Automated data movements using Python scripts.  * Involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  * Created core Python API which will be using among multiple modules.  * Uploaded statistics to MySQL for analysis and logging.  * Developed complex SQL queries for testing the database functionality.  * Used UNIX server for application deployment and configuration.  * Written shell scripting for automation.  * Provided technical assistance for maintenance, integration and testing of software solutions during development and release processes.  * Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.    Environment: Python, Django, Linux, HTML, CSS, Shell Scripting , PostgreSQL, MySQL, Python-Twitter Library, Flask, Web services, SVN, Pandas, FileZilla etc. Web Developer / CAD Designer Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc - Noida, Uttar Pradesh January 2008 to October 2009 HCL Technologies Limited (Hindustan Computers Limited) is an Indian multinational technology company, headquartered in Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India. It is a subsidiary of HCL Enterprise. Originally a research and development division of HCL, it emerged as an independent company in 1991 when HCL ventured into the software services business.  The company has offices in 39 countries including the United States, France and Germany, and the United Kingdom with a worldwide network of R&D, "innovation labs" and "delivery centers", and 120,000+ employees and its customers include 250 of the Fortune 500 and 650 of the Global 2000 companies. It operates across sectors including aerospace and defense, automotive, banking, capital markets, chemical and process industries, consumer goods, energy and utilities, healthcare, hi-tech, industrial manufacturing, insurance, life sciences, manufacturing, media and entertainment, mining and natural resources, oil and gas, retail, telecom, and travel, transportation, logistics & hospitality.    Responsibilities:  * Created or identified state-of-the-art computational mechanics algorithms that extend modeling capabilities, implement as software suitable for high-performance computers, and document their verification.  * Wrote script or program to automate analysis tools to streamlining the evaluation of initial data for integrity.  * Built application and program to streamline the cavity development and process and generate documentation from the design and via versa.  * Automated data movements using Python scripts. Involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  * Participated in developing web application UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  * Uploaded statistics to MySQL for analysis and logging.  * Developed complex SQL queries for testing the database functionality.  * Used UNIX server for application deployment and configuration.  * Wrote shell scripting for automation.  * Designed database schema design and defined relationships between tables.  * Provided technical assistance for maintenance, integration and testing of software solutions during development and release processes.  * Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  * Provided design/CAD team strong scripting capabilities in SKILL, PERL, Ocean, Linux Shell, etc.  * Interface with CAD tool vendors to prove out releases and flows, solve bugs, improve usability, etc.  * Performed 3D Modelling and Analysis using CAD tools  * Wrote script and macros for analysis tool for dynamic analysis  * Installation of different Unix System, CAD, Database required to perform  * Solution for existing machinery and new developed machine based on analysis and simulation.  * Creating 3D complex surface modelling and do various static, dynamic and fluid analysis.  * Supporting documentation needed for manufacturing engineering change request and clearly and frequently communicate with all functional areas.    Environment: CAD, UNIX, MySql, Pandas, OpenNLP, StanfordNLP, CSS, JavaScript, XML, Matlab Test Engineer Microsoft - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2006 to December 2007 Project: Vista Compatibility and Compliance    Responsibilities:  * Responsible for UI, Functional, Web Services, cross browser, Automation, Reports Testing of Web, distributed, SOA, Reporting, legacy.  * Worked as a Team Member in a Team which uses 4 week Sprint of Scrum methodology.  * Performed Manual/Functional Testing of Deposit, Vouchers, and Check Processing in online and offline mode.  * Written user-defined functions and generated Test Matrix  * Maintained central repository to determine the readiness of the application by combining Planning, Execution and Defect Tracking.  * Importing requirements, create test cases, validate requirements with test cases and generate reports using Quality Center  * Responsible for execution of JUnit Test Cases using Eclipse IDE.  * Worked on Developing Automation Scripts to perform Automation Testing of Web Application using Selenium Web Driver API, Selenium framework,  * Manage the testing process, schedule batch tests, log and track defects using Quality Center.  * Developed Test Cases using WSDL, Schema files which defines Web Service Request, Response, methods/operations, End Point of web service to be tested.  * Participate in review meetings to resolve bug related issues with developers    Environment: ACT 5.0 toolkit, SAT, SUA, Orca Education Technology CSIT-Heritage Institute of Technology - Kolkata, West Bengal 2006 Skills CSS (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), WEB SERVICES (10+ years), MYSQL (9 years), XML (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows, MAC OS, Unix/Linux  Languages: Python, C++, Java, J2EE  Python Libraries: Numpy, Matplotlib, Statsmodels, Scikit-learn/sklearn, SOAP, Scipy  Python Frameworks: Pandas, Flask, Django, Docker  Python IDE: Sublime Text 3, Eclipse, Jupyter Notebook, VIM, Pycharm  NLP used for Python: NLTK, OpenNLP, StanfordNLP (NER, POSTag, Tokenization)  Databases: RDBMS (Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL), No SQL (MongoDb), HDFS (Hadoop)  Web Technologies: CSS, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, AWS, RESTFul Web Services  Other Tools: Putty, SQL developer, Toad, JIRA, Matlab, R