Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Los Angeles, CA • Around 5 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Strong ability in development of web based applications using Python.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, Python, Django.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server side applications Django, Flask.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views.  • Strong understanding of UNIX and Linux environments and commands.  • Experience in building frameworks and automating complex workflows using Python for Test Automation.  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Hands on experience in creating a custom Puppet module skeleton to use same structure across all Puppet modules.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test-driven development methodologies.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Proficient in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, Notepad++ and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  • Exceptional problem solving and sound decision making capabilities, recognized by associates for quality of data, alternative solutions, and confident, accurate, decision making.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels. Work Experience Python Developer AVAYA June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the Application.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created a light front-end framework against the JSON API for their service request portal using Bootstrap.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Used Jenkins to build and troubleshoot automated testing.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Designed and implemented Amazon Web Services(AWS) cloud based instances for use on current and upcoming projects.  • Optimized search query results to distinguish between active vs inactive firms, offices and representatives.  • Troubleshooting the automation scenario issues and updating the script.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Experience with CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) methodologies using Jenkins and Build Forge to implement the End-To-End automation.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Participated in daily scrum to implement agile scrum methodology helping the team maintain focus on the business objective with constant assessment and feedback.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, JavaScript, JSON, HTTP web services, Jenkins, Windows, Linux. Python Developer April 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed requirements, and implement different functions model according to design.  • Designed and developed the consumer part of Web services such as Verification, Eligibility.  • Implemented front end for third party Web service using JQuery, HTML, JSON.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Git.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Unit testing of the fixes and enhancements.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, JavaScript, JSON, JIRA, Windows, Linux. Junior Python Developer Mskills United - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN June 2014 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • UI was developed using HTML, Ajax, JavaScript and CSS.  • Work with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Implemented front end for third party Web service using JQuery, HTML, JSON  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework.  • Associated with development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Used MySQL as the database.  • Use Git for version control.  • Performed unit and system testing.  Environment: Python, C++, HTML, CSS, My SQL, GIT. Software Programmer Mivo Technologies - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN March 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object  diagrams in the design phase.  • Responsible for entire data migration from Sybase ASE server to Oracle.  • Worked on Web Services using Java API for XML Services and supporting, building and deploying web APIs Services.  • Migration of API code written for Sybase to Oracle.  • Overlook the migration activity of PL/SQL programs  • Migration of the PL/SQL code from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Automation of testing using Python.  Environment: Python 2.7, Java, Shell scripting, PL/SQL, SVN, Quality Center, Solaris, Windows, and perl. Skills HTML (2 years), Python (4 years), SDLC (3 years), SQL (2 years), XML (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating systems Windows, Linux  Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Java, Shell Script, SQL  Frontend Technologies HTML, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, AngularJS, JSON  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, WebLog ic, WebSphere, Servlets  Methodologies and tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile, Scrum  Markup Languages HTML, XML  Databases Oracle, MS SQL, MongoDB  IDE PyCharm, IntelliJ, Eclipse, Sublime text, PyStudio  SDLC Methodologies Agile and Waterfall  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN, CVS, Code Collaborator  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, Apache HTTP  Cloud AWS