Senior Python/MongoDB Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span>/MongoDB <span class="hl">Developer</span> ? Senior Python Developer with 10 years of experience in Software Development with expertise in design, development and providing solutions for the clients.  ? Technical expertise in Python, Mongo DB, CORE Java, J2EE technologies (Servlet, JSP, JMS, EJB), Web-Services (SOAP and REST), JDBC, ORACLE, DB2, IBM Websphere, Oracle Weblogic, XML, UML, Rational Rose, JavaScript.  ? Strong experience in developing the RESTful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  ? Strong knowledge in MongoDB concepts - CRUD operations and aggregation framework  ? Experience in the design of Mongo DB database - Indexing and Sharding  ? Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  ? Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT and CVS.  ? Exceptional hands-on experience on Multi-Threading, Collections, Exceptions, Garbage Collection concepts in Java and good knowledge on using jmap/jstat/jconsole tools for memory related statistics, performance diagnosis  ? Hands-on experience on application servers such as IBM Web Sphere, Oracle Web logic, Dynamo and web server like Apache Tomcat.  ? Excellent experience in designing and maintaining complex SQL queries and developing PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Strong knowledge in Object Oriented programming making code more flexible, maintainable analyzing various performance or run-time complexities.  ? Excellent communication skills, interpersonal skills, self-motivated, quick learner & team player.  ? Well versed with Quality Processes & Procedures. Experience in Planning, Estimation and leading a team.  ? Worked on Waterfall, Agile and Test Driven SDLC methodologies. Work Experience Senior Python/MongoDB Developer Miami, FL February 2015 to Present Project Description:  Media Acquisition exchange is the application used by the Finance and Accounting departments to scrub carrier reports (usage and inventory) ; and by the Fraud and Loss Prevention department to issue alert alarms and monitor usage. The raw usage files are dropped at the FTP site on daily basis from different carriers for TracFone customers. MAX system enriches the raw data, calculate bank balance for voice, text and data, and then raise the alarms if there is any fraud in the usage.    Project Responsibilities:  ? Requirements Study of the Functional requirements received from the business team and perform Impact Analysis  ? Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  ? Developed the frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  ? Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  ? Used the mongoimport command to load the huge data into the Database.  ? Developed the code with CRUD operations and aggregation framework to interact with the database  ? Preparation of Shell scripts to perform testing of the application and to run the automated scripts to analyze the performance of the created database objects Senior Python/MongoDB Developer Moody's Investors Service - New York, NY June 2013 to January 2015 Project Description:  Banking FM system collect, store and map financial data to the Moody's Chart of Accounts, apply foreign exchange (F/X) rates, compute derived accounts, and calculate the details of statements for derived organizations and periods. The Banking FM system loads structured data after converting it to a common format. It also allows data to be entered, adjusted, and approved using a custom-built, front-end application. Banking FM product includes the Banking Statistical Supplement and Rating Committee Package as well as the capabilities to generate customized reports.    Project Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed database requirements in detail with the project stakeholders by conducting Joint Requirements Development sessions  ? Developed a portal to manage the entities in the legacy system using Flask.  ? Designed the Mongo DB database for the financial system using the concepts of indexing and Sharding.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Performs Unit and end-to-end Integration testing so as to cover all the use cases from the functional requirement documents  ? Collaborates and adds value through participation in peer code reviews, providing comments and suggestions    Project Name BFM - Reporting Data model Senior Python Developer Moody's Investors Service - New York, NY January 2012 to May 2013 Project Description:  To enhance the performance of the BFMo reports, a de-normalized form of model called as reporting data model is developed. Previously, the reporting includes a service layers of Java (UI and Client), Cognos (BI reporting) and DB2 stored procedures to retrieve the data based on the business logic and showcase on the different reports. As interaction through Cognos and DB2 stored procedures was time and cost consuming, Java services are designed in such a way that use the de-normalized form of reporting data model to retrieve the data and use Aspose for reporting.    Project Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed data management system using Oracle. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  ? Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP1.1, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on Oracle  ? Works with the supporting teams - SCM and Middleware team to provide the deployment instructions and support the rollouts Python Developer Project Name ALIR - May, CA May 2008 to November 2010 Project Description:  The Auto Liability Insurance Reporting (ALIR) system used DRIF to obtain the data reported each state for liability insurance. Due to problems associated with extracting data from DRIF such as quality, type, accuracy and timeliness, it was obvious that the ALIR process required a complete rewrite. The new ALIR process evolved by rewriting the programs that extract the data through DB2 stored procedures for each specific state in the ALIR system. The APPS data is extracted and loaded in ALIR to transmit to Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV)    Project Responsibilities:  ? Requirements Study on the Functional requirements received from business team and perform Impact Analysis  ? Proposing Design solutions for the complex requirements, in turn preparing the low-level design  ? Application Development of Database objects, triggers, user defined functions and stored procedures  ? Performs Unit and end-to-end Integration testing so as to cover all the use cases from the functional requirement documents  ? Collaborates and adds value through participation in peer code reviews, providing comments and suggestions Software Application Developer United Health Group August 2005 to May 2008 Physician United Health Group August 2005 to May 2008 Duration Aug 2005 to May 2008    Project Description:  Network Data Base is a system which maintains the data for UHG applications. Contracted (Par) and Non-Contracted (Non-Par) provider records are loaded for United Health Group. All provider types, including Physicians, Physician groups, Allied Health Professionals, Ancillaries and Facilities are included in NDB. Entry of all new provider records and maintenance to existing provider records will be performed in NDB. NDB is a system whose data is fed via nightly Batch feed to COSMOS and UNET to correct Claims payment and printing of provider directories.    Project Responsibilities:  ? Receiving of incidents from the end users. Working on the incidents based on the severity and priority of the tickets  ? Monitoring of the jobs in the production so as to review the daily schedule of the jobs and run as per the dependencies  ? Creation of change requests and working on them based on the size of the change required to resolve the incidents raised by the end users after the prioritization from business team  ? Performs rigorous Unit and end-to-end Integration testing so as to cover all the use cases from the functional requirement documents