Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer Marcus, IA I am an experienced developer with a depth of technical knowledge. My main area  of expertise is producing good quality scalable web applications and web services.  I have worked on many projects that use Agile and Scrum software development  methodologies.    English: fluent  Irish: fluent  German: B1 Work Experience Senior Python Developer 1&1 Internet - Karlsruhe August 2015 to March 2016 Design and develop an API to serve the clients new mobile application. The  application was designed to allow users to more accurately define and access  services, products and information that match their profile. The full stack for the  API was Python/Django application running on CloudControl with a Postgres  database and Elasticsearch index. Senior Python Developer ITV - London March 2013 to March 2015 Contract position to design and develop a server side voting solution for the a  popular TV Show iOS and Android mobile apps. Producing an API that allow users to register and vote for contestants on the TV program Technologies utilised for this project were Python, Django, Django Rest Framework, AWS, DynamoDB, Git. Senior Python Developer Sainsbury's - London July 2011 to December 2012 Senior backend Python developer working on a Django website for a British  Supermarket Chain. The website is a shopping cart site that provided functionality to allow customers to select seasonally related food products. The interface  allowed the user to select their closest store, select a date for pickup and pay a  deposit. Technologies I have used for this project were Python, Django, Redis, Git,  Robot framework (Selenium). Python/Django Developer Google - Dublin October 2007 to June 2010 I had the pleasure to be involved in many challenging projects at Google, where I  learnt the ins and outs of Python and Django.    • This was a position developing complex and scalable web applications using  Python, Django and Google App Engine:  o The majority of work I did was to design and develop backend code for these web applications. I spent time understanding the complexities of  Google App Engine and the non-relational data store.  o I was part of small teams working with Agile methodology. This was  processed in technical and problem solving discussions using a whiteboard,  resulting in tickets of work to complete within a set time. We had routine  regular stand up meetings to discuss progress.  o Technologies utilised included Angular JS, Backbone and Require. Most  applications required administration systems where we used the Twitter  bootstrap HTML and CSS based templates.    • Lead Python developer where I worked on new functionality, maintenance and  Linux server administration tasks. I wrote technical specifications to new  functionality required by their clients. My role was to work with and advise their  junior developer in order to give solutions, time estimates to clients. I also  participated in finding a replacement permanent lead developer, and interviewed applicants. My main piece of development work was to improve  clients search engine to be faster by creating an index using Haystack and  SOLR. Senior Java Developer (Consulting Team) Accenture - Dublin December 2003 to July 2007 I was a part of a number of projects during my time at Accenture, some of the more challenging are listed below:    • I was part of a team of senior Java developers tasked to build a wrap  platform. Our overall objective was to produce a Portal to provide  investment products direct to customer and to corporate customers. It  provided a user-friendly web front end to the existing product that currently  only exists for independent financial advisors. I participated in interviewing  other Java contractors to be part of the team.    • Using Java 6, J2EE, Spring and SQL Server to produce an administration  system for a Customer service to use.I was also involved in a few small  mobile application projects. One was to produce an API for a Financial  Institution that works with an augmented reality application which runs on  Android and iPhone handsets    • I worked on an advert server that serves adverts to mobile websites.  Working with a team of developers using J2EE, Spring, AJAX and MS SQL  Server database. The project was to create media planning functionality to aid advertisers in targeting audiences based on reports produced from  current statistics.    • My main role was to assist the development of an administration application for the client. The system was to be used with a new promotion being  brought out by the brand. Working with a team of 4 developers using J2EE,  Spring, AJAX and MS SQL Server. The development was done using  Eclipse, Maven and SVN Java Developer Ryanair - Dublin September 2000 to November 2003 I worked within a team of programmers using J2EE, Struts, Hibernate, Oracle and Spring. Designing, developing and maintaining the company online  booking system and other applications. We used agile software development  methods to produce functionality such as on-line check-in, itinerary change and frequent flyer points. I was a member of the development team for a project to  produce a Call Centre application. Education Bachelor of Science in Software Development Mayo Institute of technology - Galway 1996 to 1999 Additional Information Skills    Programming  Python, JAVA,    Web related technologies  HTML, CSS, Javascript, AJAX, JSON, XML    Web Service  SOAP, REST    Python Framework and libraries  Django, Virtualenv, Unittest, SimpleJSON, Memcache, Google API Client  library, South, Haystack, Redis, Celery, Django Rest Framework.  Java Frameworks  Spring 3, Spring MVC, Hibernate 2 & 3, Struts 1 & 2, JUnit, Swing, AXIS,  Velocity, DOM, SAX, Apache POI, JAXB, EhCache, DropWizard    Javascript/CSS Frameworks  Angular JS, jQuery, Backbone, Require, LESS, SASS    Java Application/Portal Servers  Tomcat, Jetty, WebSphere, Liferay    Cloud based services  Google App Engine, Heroku, AWS, CloudControl    Authentication  OAuth2, Spring Security, Oracle Access Manager    Database  SQL, MySQL, Postgres, Oracle, SQL Server, Google App Engine datastore,  SOLR, MongoDB, AWS Dynamo DB, Elasticsearch    Web servers  Apache, IIS    Operating Systems  Mac OS X, Linux, Windows, Unix, DOS    Development tools  IntelliJ, GIT, Mercurial, Maven, Eclipse, Ant, CVS, SVN, Team City, IVY