Python Sr. Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Sr. <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Sr. Developer - Cigna • Overall 11+ years of experience as a Software Engineer using Python, Django, PHP, HTML, CSS.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, objects oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS 5, JSON, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python, Django programming language.  • Experienced with Python frameworks like Django.  • Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experienced in working on Integrated Development Environments like Eclipse.  • Experience with JSON based REST Web services.  • Experience working in JavaScript and Python software development environments.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Sound Knowledge on RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle, MYSQL.  • Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Python Sr. Developer Cigna - Windsor, CT April 2014 to Present myCigna Description:  App is designed to manage the customer account details through the mobile app instead of using the web portal. He/she can login the application then can able to view the application features based on the eligibility. Customer will be able to view the ID cards, accounts, claims, prescriptions and more in the mobile app.  Medical, Dental & Vision id card's, we can view it from mobile application, able to ensure the claim status and comparing the drug price using Drug Quote Tool and easily order in a phone call to Cigna care.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Co-ordinating with off-shore team to deliver the agreed tasks and requirments in estimated time span.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  • Updated site with JavaScript, Python, Django, and SQL.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Created the POSTMAN collections for services.  • Good exposure in root cause analysis of the issues.  Environment: Python, Django, PyUnit, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, AJAX, GitHub, agile, Jira, version One. Kony Sr. Developer Wellpoint, Ohio December 2012 to March 2014 HIX iOLS Description: This app is designed to view selected plans offered in a particular service area. User to determine estimated monthly subsidy, silver cost share subsidy, and Medicare eligibility based on their demographics and other information. Customer has to contact an agent or register for call me back option, also able to change language from English to Spanish.  Responsibilities:  • Worked as a sr. developer on Kony applications for HIX iOLS (online shopping)  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Javascript language to develop the application.  • Produced the functional testing of the developed module.  • Handled widgets such as Segment, Vbox, and Hbox.  • Used Widgets APIs, Internationalization, i18n Usage, and Application Event APIs.  • Handled application JS Modules.  • Involved to take the cross platform build from Kony One Studio.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the application using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface.  • Handled the pre-processor request and post-processer response in JAVA in middleware.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Application bug fixes of the applications.  Environment: Javascript, Java, Kony One Studio, HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, SOAP, Jira, Agile. Sr. Python Developer Fulcrum Worldwide Software Pvt. Ltd May 2012 to November 2012 BC Six Description: BC Six makes it easy for project teams to collaborate, manage documents and control project information, through a secure and fully auditable platform.  It's easy to use store, find and share document and information. We will ensure the workflow  Processes, standardized procedures, traceability, accountability and safe to access anywhere  Responsibilities:  • Requirement Analysis and Estimation of project timelines.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Generated PDF daily and Monthly statements using Aspose PDF Kit.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  • Coordinate with SMEs, other architects, and senior technical staff to identify client's needs, document assumptions, and build-out new requirements and move code through user acceptance testing.  Environment: Python, HTML, CSS, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Sr. Python Developer HMA-CGS December 2007 to April 2012 ATM EJ Pulling Description:  ATM EJ Pulling server is meant to perform the electronic journal file download from ATM. Each transaction done by the customer will be stored in the electronic journal, which is part of the ATM application software. Using the Electronic journal, bank will able to resolve the disputes/issues raised by the customer who had initiated the transaction.  EOD Handler Description:  EOD handler is a module, which is used to take the back-up of operational data to warehouse database without affecting the live operations. EOD Handler ensures that the data dump has moved to External Device, and data has been moved to the corresponding warehouse database table. After moving the data to the warehouse database table, the standard reports are generated based on the user requested date.  StarCAS Description:  StarCAS is a Control Access System for EFT switch. StarCAS can monitor delivery channels like ATM, HOST, and Kiosk that are incorporated with the EFT-Electronic Fund Transfer Switch. It has value added product components like Teller and Recon. It allows the switch to be started from the front end and perform activities like starting and stopping ATM, etc. Reports can be generated for various switch transaction. StarCAS Report allows user to configure the report according to his need.  Responsibilities:  • As a Team lead to maintain the three application's and requirement analysis and estimation of project timelines.  • Application deployment in client location and support activities.  • To produce the unit test and link test plans.  • Generated PDF report daily/weekly and Monthly statements using Reportlab.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  • Attending Code Reviews, Test Reviews and status meetings.  • Produce system and architecture documentation.  • Undertake integration testing.  • Participated in external audit.  Environment: Python, Zope, HTML, DTML, CSS, Oracle and Windows. Skills HTML (10+ years), PYTHON (9 years), AJAX (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), jQuery (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: Python 2.7/2.4, PHP, JavaScript, Node.JS, DTML  Python Framework: Django, Zope, Webapp2, Flask  Web Technologies: AJAX, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery, JSON  Versioning Tools: Subversion, GIT, SVN  Web servers: Apache, Zope  Databases: MySQL, Oracle  Operating systems: Linux/Unix, Windows Variants