Lead Python Developer Lead <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Python Developer - John Hancock/Manulife Boston, MA • Nine plus (9+) years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of business application systems.  • Active member of Boston Python group.  • Experience in developing applications using python ecosystem packages like numpy, pandas, Matplotlib and ipython jupyter notebook.  • Performed data cleaning, analysis/munging and visualization of large dataset like stocks data with numpy, pandas, and Matplotlib and ipython jupyter notebook.  • Proficient in analyzing Business & Functional requirement specifications  • Automated applications with Python, flask and sqlalchemy toolkit.  • Experience with beautifulsoup and request for web scraping/crawling  • Experience with source version control system GIT and SVN  • Extensive experience in Linux/UNIX commands, BASH Shell scripting  • Extensive experience in writing SQL queries and ETL processes.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, and is experienced in working with senior level managers, business people and developers across multiple disciplines Work Experience Lead Python Developer John Hancock/Manulife - Boston, MA April 2015 to Present Operating Systems Unix  Programming Languages Python, SQL server, Informatica and Unix    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Lead a team of 5 members in a large-scale project.  • Develop python application to request data from different vendor API's and process json data  • Implemented data wrangling, cleaning, transforming, merging and reshaping large set of data sets using python.  • Used python ecosystem packages for sales and claims data analysis and reporting.  • Developed python application for automating report generation using flask, sqlalchemy and MS SQL server.  • Responsible for Business Analysis and Requirements Collection.  • Monitoring & reporting on standards & performance targets.  • Motivating the team to achieve high standards and targets.  • Mentoring and training up junior and new staff  • Involved in design, peer review, coding and testing Python/Informatica Developer Liberty Mutual - Dover, NH October 2011 to March 2015 Operating Systems Windows, UNIX  Programming Languages Python, Informatica, Teradata and UNIX    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  • Consistently meets and exceeds daily team performance goals with attention to detail.  • Mentored lower performing team members to raise expected company metrics  • Using Informatica Power Center created mappings and maplets to transform the data as per the business rules.  • Involved in data analysis using python and handling the ad-hoc requests as per requirement.  • Involved in design, peer review, coding and testing  • Developing python scripts for automating tasks   Project Title ADA Engt. In Channel Services Python/C++ Developer Aetna Healthcare April 2011 to October 2011 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  • Involved in redesigning the process, Analysis, coding, testing and implementing.  • Utilized the knowledge on C++, python and UNIX extensively in completing the project assignments on time  • Involved bug fixes after the implementation as well  C Developer Lowes specialty sales QSP Lowes Retail April 2010 to April 2011 Location Coimbatore  Operating Systems WINDOWS XP, UNIX  Programming Languages C, Shell scripting, SQL and UNIX    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  • Was responsible in redesigning the process, Analysis, coding, testing and implementing.  • Utilized the knowledge on C, Shell scripting and UNIX extensively in completing the project assignments on time  • Involved bug fixes after the implementation as well Python developer MetLife-IB Life AD March 2008 to April 2010 Location Coimbatore  Operating Systems WINDOWS XP, Unix  Programming Languages Python, C++, SQL, Shell scripting    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Enhancement and bug fixes using Python/C++  • Analyze issues, and prepared analysis document,  • Preparation of design documents where required,  • Coding and Unit Testing.  Project Title SCADA System for Traction power control Software Engineer Palakkad, Kerala March 2006 to February 2008 Operating Systems Linux, UNIX  Programming Languages C, shell scripting, MySQL  Database SQL Server    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Was responsible for Self-studying about project functionality from available documents.  • Involved in Analysis, coding & testing.  • Utilized the knowledge on C, Shell scripting, UNIX and SQL extensively in completing the project assignments on time  • Carried out self and peer-to-peer review Skills UNIX (10+ years), PYTHON (8 years), SQL (7 years), INFORMATICA (6 years), SCRIPTING (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sudheesh-madathil-44702629 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating System UNIX, LINUX  Programming Languages Python, Shell scripting, SQL  Tools & Utilities Flask, Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib, ipython, Informatica Power Center  Databases MS SQL Server, sqlite3  Location Boston, Massachusetts, USA