Senior Java/ Python Developer Senior Java/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java/ Python Developer - Anthem, VA Atlanta, GA Work Experience Senior Java/ Python Developer Anthem, VA May 2016 to Present identity and Access Management) is an existing application that manages users' belongings to TDS customers and their permissions. It supports linking its notion of customer, accounts, and users to multiple other systems. The IAM Wireless project is bringing wireline customers into IAM, making it our most "complete" picture of all accounts across wireline and cable.    Background Skills:  Python, Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, Ibatis, HTML, Javascript, CSS, XML, WebLogic, WebServices, SOAP, Cassandra, Hadoop, PL/SQL, Junit, Oracle, MySql, REST, SOA, Git, Github, Selenium, RAD, Agile, UML, CVS, Eclipse.    Accountabilities:  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, Pycharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Experience in working on various python packages such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Pyside, SciPy, and PyTables.  • Expertise in usage of Django Framework for developing web applications.  • Good knowledge in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages MySQL- Python.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations  • Developed entire frontend and back-end modules using python on Django Web Framework with GIT. Revi  • Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks  • Version control using GitHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL. Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL. Developed Business Logic using python on Django Web Framework  • Developed views and templates with python and Django's view controller and templating language to creat  • Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Used python to extract information from XML files.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc. Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using python Flask.  • Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  • Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  • Working on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Rational Application Developer.  • Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  • Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angularjs, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  • Built a scalable distributed data solution using Hadoop  • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  • Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views  • Involved in Cassandra data modeling going through the phases of creating Conceptual model, Application flow, Logical model, Physical Optimization, Final Physical model.  • Create new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development  • Played a key role in installation and configuration of the various Hadoop ecosystem tools such as Sqoop, Flume, Pig and Hbase.  • Defined and Created SOA software and hardware infrastructure, including Application Servers, Services Bus, Server Domains etc.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  • Web development including standardizing the toolsets used from Eclipse to using Git for source control  • Used Github repository for version control.  • Build use cases for each component of business workflow, create technical design documents with different UML diagrams like sequence diagrams and class diagrams using Rational Rose  • Implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO). Also Developed hibernate mappings to tables using JPA annotations.  • Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Performed Benchmarking and Load testing using Cassandra-stress tool.  • Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  • Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  • Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  • Designed and Developed REST WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  • Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic.  • Extensively worked on Application servers like Weblogic and Apache Tomcat.  • Worked on stored procedures, triggers, cursors, DB scheduler, PL/SQL, MySQL and SQL queries  • Created Use Case, Object, Class, Sequence and Flow Chart Diagrams using Rational Rose Tool  • Developed back-end stored procedures and triggers using Oracle PL/SQL, involved in database objects creation, performance tuning of stored procedures, and query plan.  • Integrating Rich Faces and My Faces in configuring Rich Faces Filter and Servlet in the configuration file  • Developed automation test cases using Java and Junit on Eclipse application.  • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check. Senior Java/ Python Developer BlueKC KCMO - Armonk, NY October 2014 to April 2016 BlueKC, KCMO is fast, reliable, and agile, company started a pilot project. The main concentration is build amazing products/services powered by the Internet. Daily businesses are sent as a batch file from the company to make the transactions. Free Bird processes these files and process the transactions from respective channels such as ACH, EFT, and EDI payments.  Background Skills:  Python, Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, Angular.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JSP, Struts, JDBC, WSAD WebSphere Studio Application Devloper, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Javascript, XML, Servlet, WEBSERVICES, Websphere, SOAP, PL/SQL, JSF, PHP, JMS, Junit, EJB, DB2, CRUD, MongoDB, MySQL MS SQL, Oracle, Apache CXF, REST, SOA, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Eclipse, Scrum, Subversion SVN, UML, Class diagram, JSTL, Maven.    Accountabilities:  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO).  • The system is a full micro services architecture written in Python utilizing distributed message passing via Kafka with JSON as data exchange formats.  • Created 6 micro services that has the capability to transfer the input files to machine readable format and pass through respective payment channels.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Did full-page caching well using Varnish and could handle massive traffic without breaking a sweat.  • Experienced in taking advantage of Nginx in combination with Apache by using it as a reverse proxy.  • Supported development of Web portals, completed Database Modelling in PostgreSQL, front end support in HTML/CSS, jQuery.  • Debugging the application and following messages in log files, to figure out the error if existing.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy, and PostgreSQL.  • Involved in analyzing the problems using transaction breakdown, network monitoring and resource monitoring to find the performance bottleneck. Maintained and monitored frameworks like Django, flask  • Developed monitoring application which captures the error related data and store it in database  • Involved in scrubbing project, which updates the existing data with hashed values.  • Reverse engineer and re-implement legacy back-end software into Python with minimal downtime.  • Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Spring, Struts, Hibernate and EJB deployed on Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  • Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  • Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture (Struts Framework), Hibernate and EJB deployed on Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database  • Mentored/trained a team of 5 junior to mid-level developers in Java/J2EE Development using UML design.  • Implemented Cloud based Service Bus on WSO2 for engaging stakeholders in the initial SOA discussions.  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQL.  • Developed a bulletin board module for supplier and vendor information portal. Application included forms to upload notification documents to the Supplier bulletin and maintenance of documents, complete with CRUD capabilities and email notifications.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Used WSAD WebSphere Studio Application Devloper for writing code for JSP, Servlets, and Struts.  • Practiced relevant agile development methodologies and worked daily with subversion and current networking technologies.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  • Lead, Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite  • Involved in Development of the application Using J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSF, Struts).  • Developed the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle and MS SQL Server.  • Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  • Developed SQL queries with PHP Doctrine and Propel to create, retrieve and update data and programming SQL sentences based on CRUD.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  • Development work is also done to the legacy system using WebSphere Studio Application Devloper WSAD IDE. The modified application is deployed on websphere using ANT and javascripts for use by interface project.  • Utilized Agile Methodology/Scrum (SDLC) to managed projects and team.  • Responsible in configuring and setting-up Apache Tomcat/Spring-TC Server for the development phase.  • Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Used JDBC to connect to the information model tier.  • Extensively involved in the development of backend Logics or data access logic using Oracle DB & JDBC.  • Create webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware  • Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • As a Senior Programmer involved in developing the Scheduled jobs, Servlets, JSP and involved in the integration and release phase of the product.  • Used Webservices - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Used XML WebServices using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic using Maven  • EJB components are deployed on the WebLogic Integration with MQSeries using JMS.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  • Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validators and JavaScript.  • Involved in UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  • Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT  • Writing JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional quality.  • Designed & Developed Application flows UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.  • Design and development of components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML. Senior Java/ Python Developer The Home Depot - Atlanta, GA March 2012 to September 2014 The Home Depot Inc. or Home Depot is an American home improvement supplies retailing company that sells tools, construction products, and services. The company is headquartered at the Atlanta Store Support Center in unincorporated Cob    Background Skills:  Python, Java, J2EE, Spring, Struts, JSF, JSP, EJB, DOJO, JQuery, Sencha ExtJS, JavaScript, GWT, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, coherence, APACHE AXIS2, Tomcat, WSDL, JBoss, Netbeans, Jasper report, Unix, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, Servlet, Ant, XML, iText, EMC Documentum, Jira, Swing, Cognos, iLog, JRules, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, Web 2.0, Linux, IBM MQ Series, Ruby, Wordpress, Drupal, Z, ASP, C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS VB    Accountabilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment  • Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of users.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python. Generated PythonDjango Forms to record data of online users.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework. Used JSF messages for handling the error messages for the applications  • Preparation of the framework classes for communication between portal to EJB and Hibernate  • Used Spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, JQuery, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  • Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations.  • Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using GWT Google Web Toolkit.  • Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Apache Struts Framework.  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  • Configured glassfish server; Design shipping rate template upload UI using Jasper report.  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  • Involved in developing and modifying the credit card, consumer loan business rules in ILog JRules  • Designed and Developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2 . Used NetBeans IDE to develop the application.  • Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  • Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, JavaScript, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Design of the process flow in Oracle BPM and jBPM to evaluate the difference between the behavior of different BPM tools  • Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  • Oracle Database access was implemented through Hibernate framework. Also used Jasper reports and Jfree charts to generate various statistical reports.  • Worked with ILog Jrule engine, to trigger the business rules in the rules execution engine configured in WebLogic application server.  • Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  • Designed and built it based on previous Classic ASP version. Upgraded its original database from Access to SQL.  • J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  • Client Services Rep for SEO company specializing in Web 2.0  • Built ASP.NET C# legal billing program that accepts barcode gun input. Also used javascript to advance from field to field after gun is clicked.  • Used Dojo for the client side development and validations  • Migration of the MVC based Reporting framework to GWT (Google Web Toolkit) using GWT-EXT.  • Collaboration technology planning, social media adoption and metrics, Web 2.0 strategy.  • Written Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  • Rewrote code for enabling download as .pdf with new iText library for Java  • Worked with Rational ClearCase to provide sophisticated version control, workspace management and parallel development support. Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Used JMS to pick xml file from IBM MQ series Queues and Parsed xml documents using DOM parsers to get data.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  • Created Jobs to Schedule multiple reports in Cognos Connection.  • Working with the JIRA tool for Quality Center bug tracking.  • Developed JavaScript based components using Sencha ExtJS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  • Deployed this application which uses J2EE architecture model and Struts Framework first on Weblogic and helped in migrating to JBoss Application server.  • Implemented Oracle's coherence cache in our suite of applications.  • Implemented Coherence Cache which can be used with Spring Annotations.  • Wrote complex sql statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  • Took complete Ownership of JRules by developing the complete architecture and integration with TSM application.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  • Expose PL/I database access layer as web service using RD/Z  • Responsible for the design, development, unit testing, deployment and maintenance of COBOL and PL/I programs for two major projects:  • Designed and developed front end screens for new reports using Swing components.  • Developed an application in Java using Oracle ADF framework.  • Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe  • Build code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  • Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems  • Installed Drupal open-source content management system on domain.  • Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the system using Ruby scripts  • Website development based on WordPress as a content management system.  • Designed and developed the individual components of the system using C++ and CORBA  • Developed code usinf C, C++ for secure transaction.  • Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS VB on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL. Software Developer Quest Diagnostics - Madison, NJ February 2010 to February 2012 Quest Diagnostics Incorporated is a corporation that provides clinical laboratory services. This system provides Patient Administration, Billing Management functions for the hospital. The major functions of Administration module are Allocating Registration, Recording Personal Details, assigning Insurance Details, Retrieving Patient history records from other hospitals. The Billing module allows Billing and receivables, looks into multiple modes of Payment and Rates Definition for Services.    Background Skills:  J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, JavaScript, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis , tcpmon, Ant, WinCVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix.    Accountabilities:  • Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  • Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  • Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  • Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  • Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  • Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  • Design, Development and testing of Java framework to transfer data from application to CIS and also from CIS to application.  • Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  • Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  • Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  • Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  • Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  • Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  • Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  • Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer. Software Developer Lincoln Financial - Philadelphia, PA July 2008 to January 2010 Background Skills:  J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Dhtml, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Wsad, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Sql Query Analyzer, Jprobe, Cvs, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp, Unix-Ibm Aix.    Accountabilities:  • Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  • Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  • Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  • Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  • Generic Tree Navigation control).  • Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  • Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  • Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  • Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  • Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  • Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  • Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  • Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  • Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  • Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  • Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  • Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  • Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  • Development of GUI using AWT  • Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  • Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  • Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER PHH Mortgage - Mount Laurel, NJ March 2007 to June 2008 BACKGROUND SKILLS:  J2EE, Core Java, Unix Shell scripts Sybase ASE, Solaris, Linux Windows NT/XP, Eclipse, SVN, Putty, Ultra Edit, AJAX, JavaScript JBOSS.    ACCOUNTABILITIES:  • Involved in deploying the application with Struts Framework and Hibernate  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and created UML diagrams such as Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts for the Optimization module using Microsoft Visio.  • Implemented the AJAX, JSPs, and Servlets, in the MVC Struts Framework to effectively handle the workflow of the application  • Experienced in validation XML manually and programmatically  • Experienced in consuming third party Jars  • Designed and developed the User Interface using JSP, JSF, HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Implemented Design Patterns like MVC, Session Facade and Data Transfer Objects  • Implemented WSDL XML document to located and describe the web services  • Developed Ant scripts to deploy EAR, WAR files for deployment into server  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles  • Worked with Log4J for logging purpose in the project Skills SQL (10+ years), ORACLE (8 years), TOMCAT (8 years), UNIX (7 years), MYSQL (6 years) Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS  Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, Eclipse, Flex, RSA, NetBeans, Windows, Linux , Unix.