Sr. Python/UI Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python/UI Developer - MERCK & CO Austin, TX ? Around 9+ years of professional experience in all phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) Including requirements analysis, applications design, development, Integration, maintenance, Installation, Implementation and testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  ? Experience in developing APIs for the application using Python, Django, MongoDB, Express JS, Angular, and NodeJS.  ? Expertise in designing and developing Web applications using HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular.js, Backbone.js, TypeScript, ES6, Redux, React, Bootstrap.  ? Extensive knowledge in developing applications in a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, React.js, BackboneJS and Bootstrap.  ? Experience in developing applications using Model Template View architecture using Pythonand Django web application framework.  ? Experience working on scalable environment using Agile/SCRUM methodologies.  ? Excellent experience in GitHub and Tortoise SVN for source code management and for version control.  ? Experience working on JIRA which is managing project requirements and tasks, tracking issues.  ? Experienced with Python Data Science libraries such as Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Pandas and machine learning libraries such as Scikit-learn for data analysis  ? Knowledge in working with Python web scraping modules such as BeautifulSoup and Requests.  ? Experience in cross browser and cross-device compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing using Jasmine, Mocha, JUnit and Karma.  ? Expertise in Java, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Struts 2.0, Spring, Spring MVC Hibernate, RESTAPI, Enterprise java Beans, JDBC Hands on experience in DBMS like Oracle, Node.js, MySql, MS-Sql, Toad, Crud, Postrage Sql.  ? Experienced in web/application servers like Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss and Weblogic  ? Set up, configured, and maintained multiple web/application servers like IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat and BEA Weblogic. Experienced in Managing build files using ANT and logging using Log4j.  ? Experienced in writing test-cases in Java environment using JUnit.  ? Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows, Linux, UNIX, AIX and UNIX Shell Script.  ? Sequence, class and database diagrams are made using the UML design tool and RAD.  ? Experienced of Databases that involve writing SQL queries, Views, Triggers and Stored Procedures.  ? Experience on RUP, Agile/Scrum and Extreme Programming (Test Driven development, Pair Programming, Code Reviews).  ? Possess excellent communication skills along with dedication, and commitment for work  ? Quick learner, possess problem solving skills, and strong team player Work Experience Sr. Python/UI Developer MERCK & CO - Kenilworth, NJ November 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Used Python packages like NumPy, Pandas to perform and display the analysis on medical records.  ? Designed and developed front-end and back-end modules using Python on Django Framework and also implemented the search function on the website using Querysets.  ? Developed a Django REST web services using Python and Django to retrieve and save data.  ? Working as a Node.js developer, Expert knowledge of modern back-end JavaScript (Node.js), front-end JavaScript, Angular 2.0, HTML, & CSS, including libraries and frameworks.  ? Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Pythonbased environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Developed data analytic tools using Python Pandas, and visualizations using Matplotlib and Bokeh.  ? Worked on Node.js Middleware framework like Express.js and Hapi.js and Yoemon, essentially  ? Developed Cloud Formation templates, also launched AWS Elastic Beanstalk for deploying, monitoring and scaling web applications using different platforms like Docker, Python etc.  ? Have Knowledge on R Programming and R Web framework like Shiny.  ? Hands on experience on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP DB(Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) architecture.  ? Expertise in AWS Resources like EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Security Groups.  ? Working experience with cloud infrastructure of AWS (Amazon Web Services) and computing AMI virtual machines on Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).  ? Developed microservices and serve them through middleware. Served any Client side libraries through microservice.  ? Worked on NPM packages and published them to nexus repositories, Developed Gulp, grunt task runner or application and involved in to write Unit test cases.  ? Essentially working to develop restful Apis and invoke Soap Apis in Express.js and Hapijs, validating Apis with swagger.  ? Worked on the development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypieweb Framework using Git, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.  ? Used Github for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers, and deploying in Mesos  ? Made strategies for Authentication, Authorization and log formats for AT&T standard internal components with OAuth and passport.js using secure gateway.  ? Make pluggable UI microservice for each platform which should solve the monolithic problem of seed generation and create Docker image and deploy them into kubernates using Angular.js 2.0.  ? Worked with Docker for containing microservices and write docker file, Jenkins for Automated Integration and deployment process and kubernates for deploying pods. And maintaining each pod on kubernates dashboard and load balancing.  ? Working on single client platform supported by around 9 other services, an internal API to connect them, and an external API for partners. It allows us to keep codebases smaller, optimize more specifically, and explore new technologies with isolation.  ? Developing Dockerfile for different end points and validate them through the docker-central to run the Jenkins job with given parameter and deploy job to the kubernates.  ? Working on AT&T plugin components like Authentication and Authorization, Cookie based Authentication and login, developed logging mechanism to dashboard to keep all logs for application.  ? Integration with CICD (Continuous integration and continuous Deployment) Process for all microservices and serve them to external innovations.  ? Support Client side liberaries like angular and database connection like mysql, Casandra, mongoDB and postgres through the Node base microservice and have them connected with Api calls.  ? Created Polymer.js , ES6 application to make UI by Dragging and Dropping the web components, where each component contains different microservice and make UI after combine all microservice together. Developed ES6 web components for the multiple uses in the UI.  ? We setup the development environment using Node.js, Npm, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, git.  ? Essentially worked on Message Routing and Kafka Broker implementation in node.js.    Environment:  Python, Django, AWS, SQLite, JavaScript, DOJO, HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, AJAX, JSP, JSON, Jquery, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, React.js, ES6, TypeScript, Polymer.js, Docker, kubernates, Npm, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, Core Java, UNIX, Linux, Sybase, JDBC, Oracle, SQL, MySql, MsSql, Toad, CRUD, Eclipse, REST, Apache CXF, Clear Case, Tomcat, JUnit, JIRA, Maven, iText, Weblogic, SVN, UML, Agile. Sr. Python/UI Developer Bank Of America - Charlotte, NC September 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and Developed REST Webservices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication.  ? Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  ? Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  ? Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file. Agi  ? Designed, developed and tested the Store management application using HTML, JavaScript, PHP and PostgreSQL.  ? Web development including standardizing the toolsets used from Eclipse to use Git for source control.  ? Worked on CRUD permissions using MySQL and presented them with the beautiful wxPython widgets.Working as a UI Developer, assisting my team in developing two different Web-based applications.  ? Extensively involved in front end screens using Java, HTML 5, JavaScript ES6, JQuery, JSON, CSS and Ajax.  ? Wrote advanced HTML 5, JavaScript and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  ? Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development with MySQL database, Node.js as the backend.  ? Developing custom HTML elements using angular. js 2.0 directives.  ? Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  ? Worked with React JS to build bootstrap components for UI web objects. Linked with API data to view render virtual DOM dynamically.  ? Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front end development frameworks including Bootstrap, flexbox algorithm to make consistent page layout.  ? Extensively used Selectors in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  ? Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  ? Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  ? HTML5 and CSS3 latest tags are used to design the webpages and HTML local storage web applications are used to store data. Styling pages with CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  ? Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  ? Extensive experience of Object Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular JS and React JS.  Environment:  Java, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Struts, JMS, EJB, DOJO, JavaScript, GUI, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, XML, Apache, DB2, Spring, Apache CXF, CRUD, SVN, Web services, GWT, Subversion, Maven, UML, Junit, ASP.Net, C/C++, C#. Sr. UI Developer LIBERTY MUTUAL - Boston, MA July 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Created User Interface Design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, REST and AngularJS, Bootstrap. Implemented useful and elegant features and visualizations.  ? Closely worked with the customer scrum to build the internal web application which will be Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using JavaScript and AngularJS.  ? Created a custom, single-page Applications, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application, developed using client side MVC Design using AngularJS front end framework.  ? Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, AJAX, CSS3, CQ5 and AngularJS in ongoing projects.  ? Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using AngularJS.  ? Worked on ReactJs Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  ? Built the Responsive UI screen for create new customer process, create bill to and ship to screens, customer search results page, customer dashboard page using Bootstrap.  ? Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using jQuery, AJAX.    Environment:  JAVA, JSP, Servlet, Spring, JavaScript, Hibernate, JQuery, Struts, Design Patterns, Agile, HTML, CSS, DOJO, XML, JMS, XML, Eclipse, Itext, Apache, Oracle ECM, Struts, Webservice, SOAP, ILOG, Web2.0, Oracle BPM, JSF, WSDL, Apache Axis2, Apache Tomcat Server, SOA, PL/SQL, Oracle10g, UML, Weblogic, Rational Rose, Junit. UI Developer LIBERTY MUTUAL - Boston, MA May 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Performed Java web application development using J2EE and Netbeans.  ? Created Various UML Diagrams e.g. Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams.  ? Responsible for the design and development of the framework. The system is designed using J2EE technologies based on MVC architecture. The Views are programmed using struts, JSP pages, Model is a combination of EJB's and Java classes and Controllers are Servlets.  ? Developed user interface using JSP JQuery, and AJAX to speed the application.  ? Writing the java script and designing the JSP GUI frame work.  ? Involved in developing EJB's for the business logic and deploying them in Apache tomcat.  ? Responsible for creating of Action classes, JSPs, Model classes.  ? Used business delegate to call EJB from struts action class.  ? Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment  ? Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate  ? Used Java Messaging Services for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  ? Deployed Application to BEA weblogic server.  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSP  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Extensively worked on spring's framework.  ? Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  ? Implement the presentation layer (GUI), based on open source framework, involving Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Beans.  ? Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  ? Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on Sql.  ? Worked with MySQL for MySQL, SQLYog and Workbench.  ? Implementation of Spring IOC container, Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  ? XML messages are used to communicate between web services that are written using SOAP and WSDL.  ? Created different database objects (Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers) for the backend MS SQL server.  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using Selenium.  ? Created war files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool.  ? Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development  ? Maintenance of data in different Oracle Databases and environments using TOAD.  ? Built CVS and XML file loaders and splitters for financial data  ? Used Clear Case for source Version Control.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Tested with the Junit Test Cases for both Professional and Institutional Claims.  ? Coordinated with QA team to ensure the quality of application.    Environment:  Java, Servlet, EJB, Struts. JMS, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, Java Script, AJAX, UML, Eclipse, Weblogic, SOAP, Selenium, JBoss, ANT, JQuery, NetBeans, JSP, EJB, WSDL, Toad, Water Fall Model, iBatis, EMC Documentum, web services, HTML, XML, MS SQL server2005, My SQL, CVS, JIRA, ClearQuest, Swing, Clearcase, Junit. UI Developer Trek Bicycle - Charlotte, NC June 2008 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  ? Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database tables. These POJOs are serialized Java Classes that would not have the business processes.  ? J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  ? Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  ? Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance  ? Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java  ? Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  ? Worked on bug fixing  ? Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  ? backend. Extensively used Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers in Microsoft SQL Server.  ? Worked on various client websites that used Struts 2 framework, Hibernate and OGNL  ? Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQL Server database for Reports module.  ? Implemented real-time patient prescription history verification system using C, Oracle PL/SQL on VMS platform.  ? Planning and applying latest Service Packs to different versions of SQL Server  ? Involved in Creation, Manipulation and Supporting the SQL Server Database.  ? Work with clients on their day to day interactions with CVS Caremark.  ? Developing a new Content Management System backed by subversion using java EE technologies.  ? Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework and control set.  ? Development of AJAX toolkit based applications using JSON.  ? Design and Developed using WebService using Apache CXF.  ? Extensively used Jquery , IBM Websphere Portal APIs for authentication and personalization features  ? Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  ? Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  ? Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  ? Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  ? Extracted and modified data from VSAM files for PDF reports.  ? Automate nightly batch processing and job alerts using REXX.  ? Responsible for migrating Websphere server from v6.1 to v8.0 and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  ? Use FileAid datasets to validate backend results of test events.  ? Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  ? Actively involved in contributing to RFP and POC activities in IMS.  ? Used standard data access technologies like JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate  ? Designed, implemented new website features and provided support, maintenance    Environment:  Core Java, JSP, JUnit, Mercurial, Eclipse, JIRA, JDBC, Strut, Hibernate, Visual Source Safe, Weblogic, Oracle, OGNL, Linux, MS SQL Server, COBOL, FileAid, REXX, ISPF, Mainframe, CICS, IMS, VSAM, JCL