Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Madison, WI Mid level python/django developer looking to work on interesting projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer CyberSponse - Arlington, VA February 2018 to May 2018 Supporting a software product that aggregates data from other cybersecurity tools such as Splunk,  ArcSight, etc. and organizes the information, gives decision support. Mostly set up interfaces with other systems and configure system 'playbooks.' Python Developer BBOXX Ltd - London July 2016 to February 2018 Working on the business software for a company selling solar panels in Africa. Much of the work I  did was involved in converting the monthly payment system to a pay-as-you-go system via mobile  money. Business software was built through customization of Odoo (an opensource ERP). Good  deal of sql due to not-so-friendly ORM of openerp, good deal of UNIX bash work before processes  were optimized with Jenkins and before things were hosted on AWS. I was mostly in charge of unittesting, something we began focusing on starting with PAYG project, and which was pushed on  other projects. Very occasionally worked on Flask app that served as lightweight frontend for  African shops (they had slower internet, openerp is heavy application). Python Developer (Graduate Student) University of Wisconsin - Madison, WI August 2013 to June 2015 Collected disparate sources of data for clinical researchers at UW Madison (using python scripts to scrape excel data and move that data into a MySQL database that would serve as the data  source for a data collection system I built for them in Django. Would build out web equivalents to their forms that they had patients fill out, using django forms and occasionally some javascript  (standard + jQuery + dataTables). Technical Analyst Epic Systems - Madison, WI June 2011 to June 2012 Helped troubleshoot technical issues, install software and do some development for healthcare IT  company. Education MS in Nuclear Engineering University of Wisconsin - Madison, WI May 2015 BS in Mechanical Engineering Virginia Tech - Blacksburg, VA May 2011 Skills PYTHON (5 years), DATABASE (8 years), DJANGO (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), MYSQL (5 years), Flask, AWS, Linux, Restful, CSS, Jquery, Git Certifications/Licenses Praxis Math 2 Additional Information Technologies  Unix OS: Linux, Mac    Python: Web-frameworks (django, flask, bottle)  Scientific computing scipy/numpy/matplotlib  Datamining and analyzing (scrapy, pandas, beautiful soup)  Odoo (an open-source business software)    Database: postgresql, MySQL    Other: git, AWS, Heroku, some knowledge of networking and security, basic javascript