Job Seeker Bayonne, NJ Skilled and results-oriented Software Engineer with more than 15 years of experience contributing to  the design and rollout of cutting-edge software applications in a variety of environments/programs  using development methodologies (tdd, oop, functional), tools and processes. Work Experience Bank of America - Jersey City, NJ September 2018 to Present PB Risk, Quartz)  • Leveraged Quartz Framework's transactional reference object's event property which captures db  deltas to implement an audit trail feature critical to the fund config changes tracking requirements of Fund Managers.  • Enabled propagation of Margin Group Configuration changes to Margin Group Views through a rest- ful api call (flask) which create messages read by InformClient (listener) and highlights deltas in views  • Automated a manual beginning-of-the-month extract system by using bob job's daily run setting and incorporating pandas date_range dateoffset BMS setting in the extraction - bob can't be set monthly.  • Resolved a crtiical position handling production issue utilizing "all" to correctly implement a special  position rule (rectified incorrect interpretation of De Morgan's theorem).  • Centralized email parameters in a configuration file which replaced hard-coded distribution group  emails in 50+ modules; enabled dynamic response to regulatory requirements by Compliance.  • Rectified unit testing issues by mocking external systems (such as sandra db) used by the source un- der test; simplified object instantiation for each test routine by using setUp/tearDown. Python Developer Insight Global - Jersey City, NJ June 2018 to August 2018 • Refactored EMC-Unisphere adapters - simplified file ops using context manager and used configura- tion to replace hard-coding.  • Vastly improved performance of a computationally intensive metrics system by leveraging GO's gor- outines to perform calculations concurrently; replaced a single threaded system.  • Provided operations with the abilitiy to view virtual machines listing under specific hosts by leverag- ing vRops-API metrics collection module and persisting data to OpenTSDB (time series database)  using Restful-API. Application Architect Data Inc August 2017 to February 2018 Enabled compliance department to track counterparty bankruptcy eligibility by using Quartz Python  UI widgets (gui) and Sandra distributed objects for persistence (BOFA db)  • Provided risk data clients on-demand access to critical credit summary fit-for-use-percentages by creating a python API exposing the path to credit summary Sandra objects.  • Resolved QzTrades extraction data quality issue by debugging LFO House Python adapter and recti- fying pertinent fields values assignment through changes in the attributes configuration file.  • Configured risk apps for dynamic adapter and environment assignments.  • Hastened deal inventory to consolidated inventory api transition by creating a python reconciliation  tool utilized by both DEV and QA team for comparing deal and consolidated counts.  • Provided statistical insight to trade trends by leveraging percentile pandas feature. Senior Developer Judge LLC September 2016 to May 2017 Jersey City, Python/Ansible (Tech Infrastructure)  • Automated network cluster builds by consuming Django RESTful APIs to gather LLDP, NIC and VLAN  data, setting up RHEL nodes by subprocess call for config and ifup.  • Enabled vcms team to meet enterprise logging requirements by converting logging to be compliant  to Universal Logging Framework.  • Facilitated round-robin load balancing for TaskServer by providing load balancing portal (go/my- compute), itsm (change management system) and appviewx (node health check system) with the ap-  propriate network settings (ip address, uri etc)  • Supported legacy node setup via shell scripts with Ansible calls. Senior Developer Diversant March 2015 to September 2016 Implemented an ETL process which replaced manual monthly data upload from Arctic to Traded  Products Sandra db; used paramiko module for ftp services, yaml for configuration and created a python script daemon launched by the Command Console job scheduler.  • Automated variance reporting by using python's smtp module, creating a parser to convert variance  data set into HTML format and having the variance report module registered to the Command Con- sole job scheduler.  • Enabled management to scrutinize/validate cem, saccr and imm models by creating python ap- plications which apply transformation rules to derivatives transaction records generating ead, rwa, pd  calculations.  • Resolved data pipeline latency issues by replacing complicated/obscure qztable primary-foreign key  matching algorithms with set intersection.  • Created scripts using awk to parse through flat files for specific expressions or filter Senior Developer Las Vegas, NV April 2014 to February 2015 • Facilitated development of customized features for the universal transaction gateway by creating a credit card swipe simulator using the Delphi programming language.  • Reduced code redundancy by using C function pointers.  • Resolved C application issues by using gdb for step-though debugging.  • Leveraged C++ STL vectors for containing transaction objects which effectively eliminated mainte- nance of an error-prone array based container. Senior Python Developer Experis March 2013 to March 2014 • Increased unit testing coverage for the Libra Team from 65% to 92% by mentoring off-shore team on pyunit usage and its features such as fixtures (setUp/tearDown), mocks, test suites etc.  • Automated Libra's data upload processes through trigger file detection and re-use of enterprise db- api to load data into Sybase.  • Refactored Libra python codebase by using pythonic idioms such as enumerate, context manager,  decorators etc.  • Resolved unit testing issues by mocking resources used in the original test cases and introduced  functional testing where setUp/tearDown is leveraged to create/delete test data on the resource. Senior Python Developer Deutsche Bank - Jersey City, NJ February 2007 to March 2013 Reduced derivatives xml file processing time by 60% through replacement of the DOM based parser  with cElementTree XML API and thus expediting downstream reporting process.  • Extended bond trades csv file system to upload fixed-width data format to Pershing by using python  meta-programming technique to modify Front-Arena objects runtime behavior.  • Instituted instruments request-response system by leveraging Bloomberg Data License and using  AEL Python objects to load data into Front Arena.  • Reduced insert-update processing time by 65% for global data hub (oracle) by leveraging MERGE as a replacement to complex stored PLSQL procedure.  • Customized Front Arena functionalities through AEL Python programming meeting DB requirements. Senior Developer Satyam - Brooklyn, NY February 2004 to February 2007 Supported and maintained a wrapper for C++ binary file reader using SWIG to create a python ap- plication for reporting Display Book (DBK) captured entries; DBK is used by NYSE specialists to cap-  ture buy/sell client trades, and the report is scanned for anomalous or irregular transactions.  • Resolved python modules issues by debugging using pdb as step-through tool, replacing the print  approach.  • Leveraged C++ template feature to overload functions effectively providing a dynamic solution to different parameter types for the same function.  • Utilized C function pointers to reduce code duplication Sr Web Developer Quest Diagnostics - Lyndhurst, NJ February 1999 to February 2004 Enabled patients, doctors and hospitals to send queries to Quest Diagnostics by creating a Contact  Us feature on Weblogic based portal; using JavaMail (as the transport container) and JSP as the inter- face.  • Expedited inclusion of American Medical Lab's test menu system within Quest web by converting  AML's Access-based test menu data into XML, and using Java's SAX parser as an integral part of the search engine.  • Pioneered internal technology request system using Perl CGI (for web form) and Perl::SMTP to send  requests to technology group.  • Supported and maintained Quest Diagnostics web portal using EJB, JSP through Weblogic. Java Developer Prudential - Florham Park, NJ March 1996 to February 1999 Enabled migration of data from a legacy system to Oracle DB by converting flat files into XML format  and using Java SAX engine to parse XML data and load into assigned Oracle tables.  • Supported and maintained an insurance quotation-request application using MQSeries (C++); insur- ance quotations are calculated using insurance data and results are placed back in q queue.  • Supported and maintained Group Insurance web portal using Trilogy's Java web framework (JRun). Education BSBA in Accounting Philippine School of Business Administration Computer Programming Systems Technology Institute Additional Information SKILLS (Professional)  • Python , Flask (restful api), Pandas  • C/C++ (gdb gcc), Unix shell scripting, awk, grep, vim, emacs, Perl,  • SQL (Oracle PL/SQL , Postgresql, Sybase),  • HTML, Javascript, XML, JSON  • Java  • github, subversion