PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER - AT&T Houston, TX An ambitious problem solver with a passion for online businesses, and who would like to join a team of like-mined developers. Muhammed has much experience of creating logical and innovative solutions to complex problems, facing customers and effectively documenting feedbacks.  He is thorough and precise in everything he does, and has a keen interest in web technology.  Driven professional with broad technical skill set. Known for ability to communicate clearly, multi-task and juggle multiple pressing projects simultaneously.  He is a natural problem solver, who has proven himself by successfully completing projects for IT  Companies, government IT departments, and individuals.  Right now, Muhammed is looking for a suitable position with a company where outstanding performance is recognized and rewarded and where he can work on a variety of high profile web back- end projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER AT&T - Dallas, TX April 2017 to April 2018 Developing, testing and debugging APIs utilized by internal customers  Designing and configuring back end applications and programs.  Resolving ongoing problems and accurately documenting progress of Python projects.  Working with other developers to resolve issues with deployment of Django web applications.  Managing and troubleshooting of Python Django and Flask projects.  Writing application interface and web scrapping scripts. WEB DEVELOPER E-Business Brain - Dallas, TX 2015 to 2017 Developed and maintained the front end functionality of websites. Client engagement and management.  Maintained and refactored existing Django based website.  Created logos, banners and buttons for websites.  Wrote cross-browser compliant HTML, CSS & JavaScript.  Provide guidance to other team members on web development issues. BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT EXECUTIVE Venture Garden Group - Lagos, NG 2013 to 2015 Identified prospects and businesses  Managed business relationships with existing and new clients.  Identified key decision makers in targeted businesses to effectively direct correspondences. Sat as the bridge between clients and developers. PYTHON DEVELOPER Lagos, NG 2009 to 2013 Developed and designed more than 5 new Django websites and web applications.  Managed and optimized existing code base to enhance performance.  Problem resolution and documentation of progress with clients' requirements.  Tested and implemented key applications built using Python WEB DEVELOPER/DBA Lagos, NG 2008 to 2009 Created new websites for new clients from scratch. Oversaw software and third party application support.  Managed Customers database. Created new databases and updated existing ones. Worked with senior developers with refactoring of python scripts.  Worked on the websites of high visibility for multi-national companies and brands.  Carried out tasks related to full software development life-cycle. Education BSc(Hons) in Chemical Engineering Obafemi Awolowo University - Osun State 2008 Skills CSS (2 years), Django (7 years), HTML (2 years), PYTHON (4 years), Flask (1 year) Links http://www.dipoelegbede.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming/Web: Python, HTML, CSS, Javascript   Framework: Django, Flask, WordPress, Bootstrap,Selenium  Software: Photoshop, GIMP  Database/DBMS: MySQL, SQL, SQLite, Oracle DB, MongoDB   Operating System: Window 95/98/2000/XP