Quantitative Analyst Quantitative Analyst Data Scientist, Quantitative Analyst Denver, CO I’m a well-rounded Data Scientist with both a business and technical background. I have an MBA from the University of Chicago, worked on Wall Street, have a CFA certification, and am a software developer. As a research analyst, I worked with various departments of businesses and am skilled at communicating (verbally and in writing) difficult concepts to all types of people.  I’m skilled in Python, SQL, data science, machine learning, and financial analysis. Work Experience Quantitative Analyst OppenheimerFunds, Inc. - Denver, CO September 2018 to December 2018 Contract position as Quantitative Analyst for two portfolio managers. Project included integrating data from different data sources into a database and evaluating effectiveness of various stock ranking systems. Used python, SQL Server, AWS, FactSet, MS Office. Python & SQL Developer Janus Henderson Investors - Denver, CO June 2018 to September 2018 Contract position as python and SQL developer to help Janus develop software to take in-house some investment analysis that was previously done by licensed software. Used quadradic programming to resolve a major roadblock on the project. Owner/Manager White Brown Fund - Lakewood, CO February 2002 to April 2017 Used VB .Net, SQL Server, Office to develop software for financial  analysis/trading. Traded primarily using momentum-based quantitative strategy. Education Certificate in Data Science Galvanize - Denver, CO October 2017 to February 2018 MBA in Finance & Marketing University of Chicago Booth School of Business - Chicago, IL August 1986 to June 1988 Bachelor's in Business Administration Southern Methodist University - Dallas, TX August 1984 to May 1986 Skills .Net (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), Data Science (2 years), python (2 years), PostgresSQL (2 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Matplotlib (2 years), Tableau (Less than 1 year), Exploratory Data Analysis (3 years), Machine Learning (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) September 1992 to Present Querying Microsoft SQL Server January 2017 Querying with SQL (including joins, grouping, window functions, etc), creating/modifying databases, inserting/updating/deleting data, query optimization.