Sr. Python/Django Consultant Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django Consultant Sr. Python/Django Consultant Santa Clara, CA Full stack Python developer with around 6 years of experience.  • Around five years of experience as a Software Developer using Python, Python MVC Frameworks -Django, Flask, TurboGears, etc., scripting, backend, middleware, etc.  • Worked on B2C and internal automation tools using scripting and Python web frameworks (mostly Django for three years).  • Experienced Python Developer working on multiple Python frameworks with OOP, (web, HTTP(S), Testing, built-ins and various 3rd party modules.  • Experienced with both Python 2.7 and 3.x  • Experienced with RDBMS (MySQL, Postgres, SQLServer, etc.) and NoSQL (MongoDB, Hadoop, Cassandra, etc).  • Experienced with data modeling, optimization, SDLC, Agile/Scrum  • Experienced with data analysis, manipulation, ETL, NumPy, Pandas.  • Experienced with middleware processes - AMQP, Celery, SMTP, etc.  • Proficient with Web servers such as Apache and knowledgeable with Shell and Bash scripting.  • Experienced with CI/CD using Atlassian tools, Jenkins, etc.  • Used and created REST APIs in several projects exposing/posting data with RESTful endpoints, and experienced with various front end tools such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript and frameworks - AngularJS, and Meteor.  • Worked as the Project Lead for a system monitoring application.  • Worked as a PhD student and taught at the University of Nebraska, Lincoln, NE and obtained Master of Arts Degree in Philosophy  • Hold a Bachelors' Degree in Engineering from National Institute of Technology (NIT) from Trichy, India with a major in Metallurgy  • Job gap from Jan 2016-present was due to health reasons and been in India since and have almost fully recovered, and ready to start a new assignment..  • Last two consulting assignments were at Genentech in So. San Francisco and Visa in Foster City as a Senior Backend Developer Consultant. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python/Django Consultant November 2016 to June 2017 This project was to design a prototype for an IoT system for the tea gardens in my state.  This was done together with my friend, owner of Flugelsoft.  • Design the IoT system  • Configure RaspberryPi to collect, format, and send over REST API to the SDK  • Collect data using RaspberryPi sensors on the ground  • Use a Django SDK to receive data at the backend (using Postgres and MongoDB)  • Build Views and serialize them with djangorestframework  • Develop user-based queries as well as pre-arranged data analysis  • Use Django/Jinja templates along with Tableau for the results on the UI    Environment: Raspberrypy, Django, Python, Restful APIs, Tableau, Linux Senior Developer Consultant Genentech - San Francisco, CA July 2015 to December 2015 • Developed a Django app for accessing MongoDB. The Human Genomics section works with massive datasets but they do not have a web interface to access it. The Django app allows for such an interface with provisions to perform CRUD operations.  • Requirements Gathering from the Genomics team  • Developed Application - One interesting aspect of this application is that it bypasses models and Database settings entirely and uses low-level PyMongo directly from views.  • Result - Most of the queries, csv downloads are operational involving debugging as well as file upload features.  • Created RESTful endpoints  • Provided unit test and made sure testing coverage was taken into consideration  • Made Django work with NoSQL (MongoDB) without any in-built adapters and 3rd party packages.  • Used Django REST framework and AngularJS (with Django templates) for exposing APIs  • The app works with a distributed MongoDB setup with middleware  • Adopted use of MeteorJS, HTML, CSS for a reactive dimension to the results.  Environment: Windows, RHEL, MongoDB, JSON, Python, Django, RESTful API Senior Developer Consultant Visa - Foster City, CA January 2015 to June 2015 Project: Worked on a reporting tool for Penetration Testing  • Set up environment  • Provided Django feature enhancements - created RESTful APIs for data entry, exposure and manipulation  • Provided Django tutorial for Visa PenTest team  • Upgraded Django (1.6-->1.7) , Python (2.7.6-->2.7.9) and other libraries  • Created template additions, integrating TinyMCE editor  • Responsible for CI/CD adoption  • LDAP integration and group permissions tuning  • Unit test creation and testing  • Database Normalization  • Database migrations  • Enhanced DB search  • Bulk Image Uploading  • SDLC plan creation  Environment: Win7, CentOS7, Python27, Django1.7/1.6, SQL Server, SQLite, WYMEditor/TinyMCE, virtualenv, python-ldap, PIL/Pillow, nose, etc. Python Developer (Remote) Pictage - Gilroy, CA June 2014 to September 2014 • Set up Environment within Ubuntu VirtualBox  • Performed debugging using nose, fudge, unittest  • Added, modified features within Turbogears, templating engines, MySQL, Postgres, MongoDB  • Designed, implemented RESTful API's for authentication, controller manipulation  • Wrote DDL, DML scripts for MySQL, Postgres, MongoDB  • Worked with data from all three sources - MySQL, Postgres, MongoDB  • ETL processing,  • Celery, RabbitMQ services  • Emailer services using SMTP  • Created multi-page application using AngularJS  • Worked with daily SCRUM and Agile environment  Environment: Python, TurboGears, MySQL, Postgres, SQLAlchemy, MongoDB, Mako, Celery, RabbitMQ, SMTP, Virtualbox - Ubuntu, Mac, Bash, Virtualenv, Fudge, VPN, Atlassian Suite, etc. Python Developer Mahindra - Redmond, WA March 2014 to May 2014 • Built internal tools and made them web accessible  • Configured servers, operations mgmt. tools  • Migrated desktop apps to web apps  • Designed Django web site  • Integrated Django with Rundeck's REST API  • Designed RESTful API with djangorestframework  • Developed wifi linkups with field routers using Python libraries/Bash.  • Developed DB Schemas  • Performed Refactoring, Optimizing on existing Python codebase  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Tkinter, Paramiko, Fabric, ssh, wifi, PyCrypto, HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, Rundeck, Apache, Windows, Ubuntu, SVN, etc. Lead Software Engineer Maan Systems Inc - Newark, CA August 2013 to March 2014 • Worked in an application that would provide real time systems monitoring, corresponding alerts, etc.  • Developed middleware using Python  • Configured and wrote MySQL queries  • Multi-tenancy MySQL  • Led team with the Sr. Architect  • Integrated Hadoop ecosystem, HDFS, OpenTSDB, MySQL, etc.  • Distributed DB processing using PySpark, M/R  • Integrated agents with backend app using REST API  • ETL processing  • JDBC coding with MySQL  • Developed an Android mobile phone app using QPython, Kivy, Java, Bulldozer, Linux, APKs that alerts users if thresholds are crossed, set thresholds, aggregate results.  • Configured Apache, Tomcat, AWS  • Developed distributables/bundles as source files, binaries of agents (wrote the setup.py modules) for different Platforms - Windows, Mac, Linux  • Optimized technology solutions for business logic  • Screened and interviewed candidates  Environment: Hadoop, HBase, CouchBase, openTSDB, MySQL, Python, Java, Spring, PySpark, Map-Reduce, RabbitMQ, py/2exe/2app/installer, HTML, jQuery, Windows, OS X, Linux, etc. Backend Developer Maan Systems Inc - San Diego, CA August 2013 to August 2013 • Debugged Pylons code  • Created cronjobs  • Created Log files  Environment: Pylons, Windows, Linux, PuTTy, Bash Software Developer Maan Systems Inc - San Francisco, CA August 2013 to August 2013 Analyzed site/UI requirements)  • Developed API Integrations, Feedback Tools (w/ FB), GUI features  • Tested, debugged features, Configuration, Split-testing  Environment: Windows, Git, Python, Heroku, Postgres, SQLAlchemy, Flask, PIL, etc. Web Developer (Contract) Dinnerwire - Davis, CA March 2013 to March 2013 • Set up/documented development server  • Debugged issues using Python libraries  • Processed code via Github  Environment: OS X, Pylons/Pyramid, Python, Postgres, Psycopg2, SQLAlchemy, Apache, Git Python Developer Glass - Lewis, CO October 2012 to December 2012 • Worked with 3rd party dynamic data flowing into MySQL and developed UI features that updated as new data flowed back and forth from MySQL  • Created dynamic graphs using NumPy and Matplotlib  • Added new features to the UI - for instance, added tabs with forms for data manipulation.  • Worked with many existing and new Python, and ancillary libraries in the code  • Wrote SQL procedures, functions for manipulating database and retrieving data, defined new schemas  • Devised and implemented test plans, automated testing  • Performed debugging  • Cross Platform work on both PC and Unix  Environment: Windows, Mac, Python, Unix, Windows, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, SVN, PyQT, MySQL, SQL, XML, Beautiful Soup, and Apache Python Developer Personal Training with Python, Django March 2012 to September 2012 Sample Personal Project  Django file drag and drop web app  • Allows file drag and drop functionality, saves it and allows viewing/editing/etc. privileges upon access  • Authentication, different file format, blob support, etc.  • Environment: OS X, Django, HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, South, MySQL, etc.  Self-taught in Python, Django, and other technologies, Theory Lecturer - Department of Philosophy/ Instructor University of Nebraska - Omaha, NE 2004 to 2011 - Teaching Assistant - PhD Student  • Designed Syllabi, Selecting Textbooks/Topics/Assignments/Reading List  • Organized and structured courses  • Lectured and interacted with students from diverse socio-economic-academic backgrounds.  • Prepared assignments  • Graded assignments with comprehensive feedback  • One-to-one meetings with students discussing their issues and trying to resolve them together  • Took student evaluations, Department Chair's evaluations Lab Asst Cargill Foods June 2004 to August 2004 Engineer/Sales Flowserve Sanmar Limited - Delhi, Delhi 1996 to 1999 • Sales/Support of flow control equipment/systems, such as, mechanical seals, O-rings, etc.  • Requirement gathering and analysis  • Competitor analysis  • Negotiations (Technical and Commercial)  • Regular client visits for technical support and sales  • Discussed and resolved engineering issues  • Prospected new clients  • Electronic Prospecting/Sales-Phone, Email, etc.  • Product presentation  • Trained new engineers -- both within the organization and at clients'  • Diversified client portfolio -- end clients, OEMs, contractors; large geographic region; very small units to very large ones  • Provided documentation  • Trained in all divisions of the conglomerate  • Developed corporate marketing communication for clients Education Master of Arts in Philosophy in PhD student University of Nebraska - Lincoln, NE 2007 Bachelor of Engineering in Metallurgy in Metallurgy National Institute of Technology (NIT) - Tiruchchirappalli, Tamil Nadu 1995 Skills API (3 years), Django (4 years), HTML (1 year), RDBMS, NoSQL (5 years), Python (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages: Python 2.7, 3.x, Bash, SQL, Java (core)  MVC Frameworks: Django and any Python related MVC framework  Database: MySQL, Postgres, MongoDB, Hadoop, Redis, HBase, openTSDB, etc.  Web/App Servers/Cloud: Apache, AWS, Openstack, Rundeck  Web Services/API: RESTful APIs, JSON, XML  Data Analysis/Manipulation: NumPy, Pandas, Python-ETL, etc.  Networking: Linux, wifi w/ Python libraries & Linux-Bash, VirtualBox  Front-end/Web: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Meteor, Angularjs  GUI: PyQt  Testing/VCS: Unittest, doctest, Nose, Mock, Coverage / Git, Stash, SVN  Mobile Apps: QPython, Kivy for Android apps.  IDE/Text Editors: Pycharm, Sublime, Vim, TextWrangler, IPython, VS  OS: Mac , Windows, CentOS/RHEL, Ubuntu, VM, VPS