Senior Python Developer (Full Stack Developer) Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span>) Senior Python Developer (Full Stack Developer) - VERIZON South Plainfield, NJ ? 10+ years of experience in design and development of Web based Client and Server applications.  ? Experience in all the phases of SDLC, with emphasis on user interface design and n-tier distributed architecture design, development, testing, deployment and maintenance.  ? Have 8+ years of years of experience in enterprise application environment.  ? Extensive expertise in designing, coding and software applications using Python, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, XML, HTML5, Oracle, Elasticsearch and MongoDB.  ? Extensive experience in web application development using HTML5, DHTML, CSS, Python and PHP.  ? Worked as Full Stack Developer.  ? Experience in automating complex test case scenarios.  ? Knowledge on Python libraries like NumPy and Bigdata Spark jobs.  ? Expertise in creating ETL scripts.  ? Strong experience in Python MVC frame works (Django).  ? Strong experience in PHP5 MVC frame works (Zend and Symfony).  ? Experience in Content Management System tools like Drupal, Joomla.  ? Has experience in using various protocols like TCP/IP, SMTP, LDAP and SNMP.  ? Has good experience with AWS.  ? Has good experience on AngularJS, NodeJS.  ? Has good knowledge on Typescript.  ? Has good experience on micro web framework Flask.  ? Has good experience with Jenkins for Continuous Integration (CI).  ? Competent knowledge of software design patterns and development methodologies.  ? Used Configuration Management and Version Control (CVS), GIT and SVN for version control.  ? Has good Experience on Web Services (SOAP, REST).  ? Flexible, self-motivated, self-believer and team player combined with can-do, will-learn attitude. Work Experience Senior Python Developer (Full Stack Developer) VERIZON - Township of Warren, NJ February 2017 to Present Technologies: Python, AngularJS2 PHP, Elasticsearch, Flask, JavaScript, JQuery, GIT, HTML5, CSS, REST, Node JS, JSON, Jenkins, Bootstrap, Postgres and APACHE.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements and transformed them to technical design specifications.  ? Used Python3 based micro web framework called Flask in designing Restful API's.  ? Generalized common functionality and created library files for the common functionality.  ? Worked on handling of JSON data from RESTful web service API's.  ? Worked on designing and enhancing the templates in Enterprise Content Management.  ? Designed forms and developed dynamic front-end validation using JavaScript.  ? Used Python3 libraries to connect to Elasticsearch and retrieve data from NoSQL data store.  ? Created ETL scripts to generate standard batch files from various data sources.  ? Involved in discussion of application migration to Amazon cloud platform.  ? Developed custom data pipeline in Python.  ? Developed SQL queries to retrieve data from the database.  ? Involved in code review and code optimization for all the modules.  ? Configured Python3 with POSTGRES.  ? Created and managed database and tables using MySQL and Postgres.  ? Configured Python and ElasticSearch  ? Worked with testing team to implement test cases.  ? Involved in Fixing Bugs reported by Testing Team.  ? Used Jenkins for the Continuous Integration of the modules (CI).  ? Implemented AngularJS2 in the frontend of the application.  ? Used Bootstrap framework for the responsive design.  ? Used Node JS server for compiling and running the application.  ? Used Gulp build for application build.  ? Used AngularJS2 chart libraries to generate charts.  ? Implemented Lazy loading in AngularJS2.  ? Used AngularJS2 Observables in the application.  ? Designed Custom Components in AngularJS2 application.  ? Implemented Event Handling in AngularJS2.  ? Developed data import and export from CSV files using Python. Senior Python Developer DC HEALTH BENEFITS EXCHANGE - Washington, DC June 2016 to January 2017 Technologies: Python, JavaScript, REST, SOAP, JQuery, Bootstrap, MySQL, GIT, Mac OS, Drupal7, Kanbanize, AWS, RabbitMQ and APACHE.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Participated in creating functional specification, analyzed and developed the application.  ? Developed the application logic using Python and Javascript.  ? Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? RabbitMQ configuration with Python.  ? Used JavaScript, Bootstrap and JQuery for the frontend development of the application.  ? Responsible for writing various queries to retrieve the data from the MySQL Database.  ? Worked on Python based HOA library in designing Rules Engine.  ? Used Git for code repository.  ? Used Kanbanize for task and bug management.  ? Worked on data handling from web API's.  ? Used Python to consume REST and SOAP based web API's.  ? Parsing JSON data through Python.  ? Used IRS SOAP based API's for verifying user tax information.  ? Developed front end validation rules for User Interfaces using JavaScript (JQuery).  ? Participated in Bug Fixing, Coding and Testing.  ? Implemented RabbitMQ message queue service for communication between various systems.  ? Application was hosted on Amazon cloud platform.  ? Implemented Restful JSON API's. Senior Python Developer ASCEND LEARNING - Burlington, MA October 2014 to April 2016 Technologies: Python, JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL, GIT, Mac OS, Moodle, AWS, RabbitMQ and APACHE.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Rewriting application in Python Django framework.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Worked on PHP5 and Moodle framework to maintain this application.  ? Implemented customized components in Django framework based on business requirements.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Used Python scripts to update content in the MySQL database and manipulate files.  ? Used Git as code repository.  ? Worked on application deployment on the AWS cloud.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  ? Used JIRA for task and bug management.  ? Developed front end validation rules for User Interfaces using JavaScript (JQuery).  ? Integrated RabbitMQ message queue with Python Django framework.  ? Implemented Restful JSON API's for sharing the data with the third party applications. Software Developer ( Python/PHP) CARING BRIDGE - Minneapolis, MN June 2014 to September 2014 Technologies: Python, PHP, Zend, JavaScript, JQuery, MongoDB, Angular-JS, GIT, Mac OS and APACHE.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Used Python to handle with external API's.  ? Worked on PHP5 to develop the application.  ? Used Zend framework to develop this application.  ? Responsible for writing various queries to retrieve the data from the Mongo Database.  ? Used Gitas code repository.  ? Worked on the AngularJS in the User Interface of the application.  ? Used JIRA for task and bug management.  ? Worked on the measures to enhance the web application security.  ? Developed front end validation rules for User Interfaces using JavaScript (JQuery).  ? Worked on data handling from web API's. Python/UI Developer (Full Stack Developer) VERIZON - Irving, TX March 2013 to May 2014 Technologies: JavaScript, PS3, PS4, JQuery, GIT, AngularJS, MySQL, HTML5, CSS and APACHE.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Participated in creating functional specification, analyzed and designed application.  ? Used Python to develop REST based web API's in the backend of the application.  ? Used Python to connect to database MySQL.  ? Implemented SQL scripts to retrieve data and convert into JSON format for REST based API's.  ? Application was developed for Playstation-3 and Playstation-4 devices.  ? Worked on data handling from web API's.  ? Used HTML5 features like Local storage and Session storage to store data on the devices.  ? Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  ? Extensively used JQuery for event handling in this application.  ? Developed front end validation rules for User Interfaces using JavaScript (JQuery). PHP Developer CORPUS SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2011 to February 2013 Technologies: PHP5, MySQL, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, Zend, SVN and LINUX.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Developed the GUI based on the User interface requirements.  ? Extensively used Zend in developing this application.  ? Worked on the development of customized modules.  ? Worked on data transformation from CSV files into database.  ? Developed categorization of the products.  ? Worked on excluding products which doesn't satisfy the predefined condition.  ? Worked on the searching, adding and deleting products to a category by admin.  ? Used SVN for configuration management.  ? Used JSON in Ajax requests.  ? Involved in both unit testing and integration testing.  ? Involved in configuring the Apache Web Sever  ? Responsible for developing reports.  ? Developed front end validation rules for User Interfaces using JavaScript (JQuery).  ? Responsible for writing various SQL queries to retrieve the data from the MySQL Database.  ? Developed shell scripts.  ? Worked on the measures to enhance the web application security.  ? Used JIRA for task and bug management.  ? Used Google Analytic scripts to analyze. Software Engineer (PHP) COLLABOR SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2010 to August 2011 Technologies: PHP5, JQuery, MySQL, HTML5, Zend, SVN and LINUX.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Involved in gathering requirements, created functional specification, and designed application.  ? Interacted with user during requirements gathering sessions.  ? Developed the entire application using Zend PHP framework.  ? Designed and developed customized modules.  ? Used JSON in Ajax requests and responses.  ? Involved in configuring the Apache server.  ? Developed UI validation rules for User Interfaces using JavaScript (JQuery).  ? Involved in Bug Fixing, Coding and Testing. Software Engineer (PHP) CONTINNUMSOFT - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2007 to November 2010 Technologies: PHP5, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL Joomla, SVN    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Designed & Developed UI using PHP5, Joomla, HTML5& JavaScript.  ? Developed and involved in design and development of database tables using MySQL.  ? Developed PHP pages and published data on the pages from backend.  ? Actively involved in fixing bugs in the application.  ? Involved in testing, implementation and maintenance.  ? Performed various numeric and non-numeric, boundary value data validations by creating Data driven manual test cases with positive and negative data. Education Technology Jawaharlal Nehru University 2007 Skills JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), HTML5 (8 years), PHP (5 years), Python (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS:  Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows, Linux, Mac OS  Development Language: Java, C, C++  Web Technologies: Python, Python, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, C, HTML5, XML, Drupal.  Database Systems: Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, Postgres  SourceControl: CVS, SVN, GIT