Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Pioneer Hi-Bred International, Inc West Des Moines, IA • 5 years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, C, C++, JavaScript and SQL.  • Worked on several standard python packages like Numpy, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Driven to architect Big Data solutions on multiple platforms using data analytics.  • Developed various Python scripts to generate reports, send FIX messages (FIX Simulator), SOAP requests, TCP/IP programming and multiprocessing jobs.  • Good Experience in Working on Restful Api's.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Experience in working on BDPaaS (Big Data Platform as a Service).  • Expertise in working with different databases like Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB  • Expertise in working on data migration tools like Alembic.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Application Stress tester, created and stress tested stand-alone, web-applications and generated graph reports.  • Attentive to cyber security and data protection.  • Motivated, proactive, innovative problem solver with excellent analytical, organizational, interpersonal, communication and written skills. Excellent team player, quick learner, keens to learn and implement new IT technologies.  • Strong knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms, Object Oriented Analysis, machine learning and software design patterns.  • Good Experience in Working on Geospatial Data.  • Good Experience in working with Microsoft Team city and Octopus for continuous integration and deployment.  • Expertise in Production support. Provided first, second and third level support to different organizations. Used pdb, gdb and other debugging tools and deployed production hot fixes.  • Knowledge of deployment tools using Heroku, Jenkins, pylint, cppCheck and Coverity.  • Expert at version control systems like Git, GitHub, svn and cvs. Migrated repos from svn to GitHub.  • Experience in documenting the build and entire deployment process  • Good Experience in working on Amazon Web Services.  • Good Experience in Collaborating and working with Offshore resources.  • Experience with Agile, Scrum and Waterfall methodologies. Used ticketing systems like Jira, Bugzilla and other proprietary tools.  • Experience troubleshooting software and automation issues with assistance of testing engineers  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing(UAT).  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications. Work Experience Python Developer Pioneer Hi-Bred International, Inc March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Restful APIs using Python.  • Analyzed complex user requirements, procedures, and problems to improve existing System design.  • Helping automate data analysis by automating pre-processing and incorporating helper functions into API codebase.  • Used SQL toolkits like SQLAlchemy and Geo Alchemy.  • Extensively worked on Geospatial data.  • Developed end to end application components involving business layer, persistence layer, database and web services layer.  • Documented Detailed design within a given project structure.  • Developed code for http Api calls like (GET, PUT, POST, DELETE)  • Worked on Ingestion Process of geospatial data using ETL techniques.  • Experience in working and coordinating with Offshore resources.  • Used Analytical Python Libraries like Pandas and Numpy to work on Data Manipulations.  • Successfully coordinated and developed the deployment process.  • Worked on .csv, xml, .xlsx, and json files.  • Documented the entire build and deployment process including detailed step-by-step instructions.  • Worked on developing tables using alembic a data migration tool used for SQLAlchemy.  • Extensively worked on Microsoft Team city and Octopus for Continuous Integration and Deployment.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML and CSV documents to load the data in database.  • Extensively worked on AWS Cloud platform and its features including EC2, VPC, RDS, Api Gateway, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, Step Functions, IAM, S3, SES, SNS, Batch, Lambda.  • Created SNS notifications and assigned ARN to S3 for object loss notifications  • Working knowledge in AWS Lambda for Server-less computing using Python  • Working knowledge in Api Gateway for creating Api keys and endpoints.  • Developed cloud formation scripts to create and update stacks.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Worked on Defect Debugging.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  • Followed Agile and Scrum Methodologies. Used Jira ticketing system.    Environment: Python, HTML/CSS, PostgreSQL 9.6, ETL, Team city, Octopus, Alembic, IBM, AWS, Oracle, PL/SQL, Unix Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux, WebLogic Application Server. Python Developer Bloomberg LP - New York, NY December 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java, C++  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Created Data layer in MYSQL.  • Successfully coordinated and developed the deployment process  • Documented the entire build and deployment process including detailed step-by-step instructions  • Supported multiple parallel projects by creating processes & procedures for reusing existing code  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Added Buy side and Sell side interfaces to route and receive orders over FIX as TCP/IP packets on a given port. Used FIX Simulator behind the scenes.  • Migrated C and C++ tasks to Python. Generated SWIG interfaces for tasks that are good to be left in C++. Interacted with Python using SWIG interfaces.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  • Developed exhaustive SQL Queries to find differences in datasets to find out whether rolled out software has fixed issues.  • Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to MySQL.  • Followed Agile and Scrum Methodologies. Used Jira and other proprietary ticketing systems.    Environment: Java, Python, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MySQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Unix Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux, WebLogic Application Server. Software Developer in Python Camirine - IN June 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed High level design Detail design documents.  • Developed UI using HTML, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery and jQueryUI.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Developed rich UI web application using JavaScript libraries like jQueryUI, data grid, jscolor, high charts.  • Designed and developed components using Python. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Support the scripts configuration, testing, execution, deployment and run monitoring and metering.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Used Restful API's to gather network traffic data from Servers.  • Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs    Environment: Python, C++, JavaScript, MySQL, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, Unix, Linux, Agile, pylint, Jenkins. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Master's in Information Technology Colorado Technical University Skills DATABASE (4 years), HTML (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), SQL (4 years), C++ (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Python, C, C++, JavaScript.    Operating Systems Ubuntu, Windows 10/XP/2000/Vista/7, RedHatlinux, Windows server 2008,2012.  Python Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, SQLAlchemy, GeoAlchemy, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Pandas, Numpy, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables,    Development tools Sublime Text, Eclipse, PyCharm, emacs, gvim, Notepad++, OpenGrok, Jenkins, Coverity, pylint, pdb, gdb, cpp check  Databases Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, Oracle, MySQL, MS Access, Mongo Db and NoSQL database  Cloud Technologies AmazonWebServices(S3,CloudWatch,APIGateway,Step Functions,RDS,CloudFormation,Lambda,EC2,SES,SNS,Batch)  Big Data Hive,PIG,PySpark,Spark  Version Controls Git, GitHub, cvs, svn,    Methodologies Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall.