Senior FullStack Developer Senior FullStack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior FullStack Developer Mamaroneck, NY • Over ten years of experience in Python programming, Web application development, and data-  base management  • Expert in all aspects of software development lifecycle: analysis, design, prototype, implementa-  tion, and integration  • Strong analytical and communication skills with a proven track record of delivering significant  business results Work Experience Senior FullStack Developer LifeDojo Inc - New York, NY April 2017 to March 2018 Part of a small-sized development team at an exciting startup. My focus is back-end development us- ing Python and Django, database design with Postgres, front-end development using ReactJs and Re-  dux, and streaming data using Python.  • Led, designed, and implemented LifeDojo CMS. The CMS Data Navigator application is an easy-to-use menu-driven search tool that makes information resources for health articles and  videos easily accessible. The data and information cards are classified by LifeDojo health pro- grams like the fit program, the stress program  • Designed and implemented REST APIs to support mobile applications and LifeDojo website.  • Collaborated with the management team, clients, and other stakeholders to continually im- prove LifeDojo's website, enhancing user experience and meeting LifeDojo's marketing goals. Senior Software Engineer/ Scrum Master Benchmark Education Co - New York, NY September 2016 to March 2017 Responsible for the design, development, and delivery of data and database solutions  • Designed and built a new structure for the education database that holds all information con- cerning the classification and the management of the content  • Facilitated Scrum meetings such as daily stand-ups, backlog grooming, and sprint planning  • Analyzed, extracted, and integrated the data in the new database structure using Python  • Created Web services to connect and exchange data between systems as data Warehouse, ERP,  and CRM using Django and Restful.  • Created a GUI using VueJs, Handsontable and JQuery, providing the user with the flexibility  to connect to the database, edit and merge the data. Senior Python/Django Developer Medical Knowledge Group - New York, NY June 2014 to August 2016 Managed the development lifecycle of several Web applications that are focused on facilitating the interaction and collaboration within the medical community. My responsibilities included interacting  with clients to collect requirements, reporting project progress to management, designing code and database architecture, and developing and testing products.  • Redesigned the C++ implementation for CLAIMS, a Web application that uses influence net- works and relies on insurance claims to target new clients. CLAIMS uses random forests to  analyze the graph of doctor-patient relations and referrals estimate the probability of doctors'  referrals. My role involved optimizing the C++ code, refining the algorithm, and adding new  features. The work is expected to enhance the speed of the code by three folds.  • Designed and implemented a survey website for communicating with pharmaceutical clients  and collecting data that relate to drug consumption. The acquired data is stored in a database for further statistical analyses.  • Used the GO Programming Language to refactor the configurations and redesign the legacy  databases for CLAIMS. Built an API to drive the CLAIMS-based mapping interface and de- veloped stored procedures for managing the back end.  • MES is a Web application that is built on top of a centralized MySQL database which contains a comprehensive list of client's activities and interests, including conference  information, speaker engagements, and other professional activities. Developed a Python layer for managing and synchronizing several applications and their respective  databases. Built applications for controlling the interaction with two portals, including  user authentication, report generation, and communication with speakers and audience  members outside of the system. Also, consolidated the existing databases into a single  database, increasing efficiency and reducing maintenance burden.  • Designed and implemented a reporting and tracking infrastructure that is used by management to gain insight into product consumption. This effort is part of the Key-  point project which is focused on client analytics.  • The Digital Act project provides educational material in multimedia format, such as videos, Webcasts, and printed brochures and newsletters. Built the back-end for the  Obesity education portal which is geared towards health care professionals. Used the REST framework to build the API consumed by AngularJs on the client side. Senior Python/Django Developer New York, NY March 2010 to March 2014 As a new comer to the USA, I started my own business focused on providing information  technology services, including designing databases and building Web applications.  • Using Amazon web services, Developed and implemented strategy for buying and sel- ling on amazon. the strategy considered the listing prices of product to make profitable  decision.  • BrandME, New York, BrandMe is a branding startup company. Worked on Python,  Django, PostgreSQL development.  • Iverit, New York, Iverit is s startup specialized in a targeted marketing. Used Python,  Django, Developed the authentication and data synchronization between the user in IOS environment and the Django website. Designed MySQL database to contain the  real-time equity options market-data.  • Developed, designed Stock Control for oil Directional Drilling companies Using  Python, Django, ProstgreSQL. Users were able to manage all the products entry and exit from the stock with notification on quantities limit on each product. Python Developer Logilab - Paris, FR April 2007 to December 2009 Logilab is a company specialized in scientific and websites programing using Python technologies.  • Developed, designed, tested different modules as DRH, CMS, Technical expertise internal  matrix module, Training module. Using Python and CubicWeb (semantic web application  framework developed by Logilab), Developed document management websites for different  CEA (Nuclear power in France). Using Python, Zope2, Zope3 and Plone,  • Developed hg tools on Mercurial (open source project to manage distributed version control  system).  • GUI and Scientific Development for Arcelor (France), simulation of attraction forces on me- tallic objects.  • GUI and Scientific Development for EDF (Electricite De France) a simulation of combustible  usage on energy production. Web Developer Makina - Paris, FR April 2005 to March 2007 Makina-Corpus is a company specialized in Complex web applications and GIS.  • Wrote the specifications of the system Geographic database management system for the CHARENTE POITOU region in France.  • Developed a Content Management System for the Website of the Paris Chamber of Com- merce, using Python, Zope and CPS. Database Developer Ashtart Sytem Development - Damascus, SY October 1995 to October 1995 to October 2000  Ashtart System Development is a company specialized in database application development.  • Developed, tested and documented the System of scholarship for the Syrian Education Minis- try. Used Oracle, PL/SQL and Developer 2000.  • Stock Control for oil Directional Drilling companies. Developed the system using Watcom C+  + and Sybase SQL.  • Developed, tested and supported the system Marketing/Accounting system for Nestlé-Syria.  • Developed, tested, supported and commercialized the Medical Analysis Laboratories system. Education Certificate of Machine Learning Stanford University November 2015 B.Sc. in Computer Science in Computer Science CNAM - Versailles, FR June 2006 B.Sc. in Civil Engineering in Civil Engineering Damascus University May 1994 Skills DJANGO (7 years), GUI (3 years), PYTHON (10+ years), DATABASES (6 years), MYSQL (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Web applications: Django, Zope, CubicWeb, HTML, JQuery, JavaScript, Handsontable and  VueJs, ReactJs. Redux.  • Object-oriented programming: Python, Golang  • Web browsable API: Experience in REST framework, and Tastypie.  • Databases: Experience working on MySQL, Oracle, Postgres, Sybase, and MS Access  • Open source tools, such as Git, SVN, Hg, Jira, and Sphinx  • OS: Development under Unix, Mac, and Windows environments  • GUI Development: GTK, QT, and Tkinter  • Agile Method: Rally