Centerfield - Senior .NET Developer Centerfield - Senior .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Hollywood, FL Work Experience Centerfield - Senior .NET Developer 2011 to Present Developed and maintained ecommerce software for home service sales including cable,  phone, internet, and satellite. Developed applications used by call center agents. Also,  developed public facing ecommerce applications.  • Client applications were written with MVC 4 utilizing razor syntax, JavaScript, and jQuery.  Sometimes the styling was completely custom. Sometimes we used bootstrap. Client  apps were eventually upgraded to MVC 5. Latest efforts began to incorporate Angular 4 and TypeScript.  • Client applications interacted with a WCF service layer which would then make 3rd party  API calls. Sometimes the calls were restful and some were made via SOAP. The WCF  layer also interacted with the data layer with ADO.NET or Entity Framework. I helped to create and maintain some of these services.  • Helped to migrate legacy applications from .NET 2.0 to .NET 4.0. This also included  moving applications from web forms to MVC 4. Independent Developer NET Core MVC 2010 to Present • Currently developing a Web Application with a rich user interface. It is being built with asp.net core.  o The web layer and middle layers are all ASP.NET Core MVC apps.  o The data layer is using EF Core created with Code First and extended with data  migrations as needed. The actual database is currently just the localDB (SQL  express), but plans are to deploy using Azure.  o Authentication/Authorization is accomplished by leveraging IdentityServer4. I am  using OpenID to allow for both local authentication and external authentication  (Facebook, Twitter, Google, etc.).  o The front end makes heavy use of createJS, a framework that sits on top of the  HTML5 canvas. Rich assets are created in Adobe's suite of apps and exported by Adobe Animate to a createJS JavaScript file which is then ready to be  rendered to the canvas. Front end functionality is all integrated with Angular 4  written with TypeScript. Adjunct Professor in Python Digital Media Arts College 2006 to 2013 scripting, MEL scripting, Special Effects, and Motion  Graphics. I was responsible for administering the curriculum, providing assistance and assessing students' performances over the course of a semester. I taught both undergraduate and graduate levels of programming for Maya. Education MFA in Special Effects Animation Digital Media Arts College - Boca Raton, FL 2006 B.S. in Computer Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology - Atlanta, GA 2004 Skills JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), AUTODESK MAYA (10+ years), MAYA (10+ years), PYTHON (10+ years), API (10+ years) Additional Information SKILLS    • .NET, C#, ASP.NET Core, MVC 5 (both web and web api), Angular 4, TypeScript,  JavaScript, jQuery, HTML 5 canvas (createJS), Bootstrap 3, Entity Framework,  ADO.NET, SOA, WCF, TDD, MS SQL, C/C++, VB.NET, Python, Java, ActionScript 3.0,  micro-controller programming (PIC18F452)  • Adobe Creative Suite, Autodesk Maya.