M&R Analyst, Python, Automation Developer M&amp;R Analyst, <span class="hl">Python</span>, Automation <span class="hl">Developer</span> Automation Developer Las Vegas, NV Skilled technician with a variety of experience. Very high work ethic; highly proficient, fast paced, fast learner, and an excellent troubleshooter. Consistently been recognized for productivity and accuracy.    New to the Las Vegas area. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience M&R Analyst, Python, Automation Developer Catalyst Repository Systems? - Denver, CO March 2007 to Present •Provide help with the gap between Developers and Client Service.  •Developed Automation QC script for xml product, reduced the workload by eliminating the need for any manual QC and human error.  •Developed Automated queue handling to route problem tickets to proper technicians, reduces bouncing tickets around before it gets to the technician.  •Research product errors. Develop tests for new internal pipeline.  •Create Python scripts for internal use via Flask application for Customer Service to use, eliminates questions asked to Development.  •Create and run scripts that current Product can not do. e.g. Copy xmls and files from site to site.  •Review team members code with use of Review Board.  • Python, json, xml, unix, sql, mysql, ElasticSearch, aws, Flask, DJango, Redis, CVS, SVN.    --Application Support & Data Loading Manager  •Monitor work queue and balance workload for 8 techs.  •Developed SQL automation for (uploads, data/file overlays) eliminated the paper checklist and human error of missed steps.  •Automated the QC process for (uploads, data/file overlays) SQL product.  •Create Google phase skill tests, improving the skills of technicians.  •Setup/run interviews, hire/fire.  •Run 1 on 1s/Reviews.  •Work with development; finding bugs, testing and recommend fixes for the current pipeline.  •Make SQL automation more efficient.  •mysql, sql, perl script, javascript, stored procedures. SAP Developer Medtronic - Louisville, CO 2006 to 2007 •Identify SAP data requirements, Data Cleaning, Data Validation, Design Acceptance  •Testing scripts, Run Test scripts. SAP, JDE, MS SQL Server, Cognos, Query Analyzer, Toad for Oracle, Access, Excel. Whole Sale Support Qwest - Denver, CO 2002 to 2003 t•Responsible for initiating, updating, directing, escalating, and closing customer initiated trouble management tickets. Implement basic roubleshooting skills to eliminate unnecessary, unwarranted escalations. •800/ long distance. LEC, LATA, CO, CLLI, A/Z location, Ring to number, Dial around, PIC, IXC, Tandem, Trunk, Loop, CPE, Drop Cable, Broadband, Narrowband, IP, Frame Relay, ATM, ANI, CLEC, CDR. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems American Institute of Computer Sciences - Birmingham, AL BA in Music Education Metropolitan State University of Denver - Denver, CO Certifications/Licenses MongoDB University