Python Application developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Application <span class="hl">developer</span> Python Application developer - Paramount Global solutions Coppell, TX ? Experience in Application development, Automation, data analysis and over all 11 years of professional expertise in providing solutions for variable information controls & Technical support.  ? Experience in Automation framework development for telecom protocols.  ? Experience in object oriented programming with Python & C++ and programming experience on C.  ? Experience in scripting languages like shell, TTCN & LUA and excited to learn new languages.  ? Experience in 3GPP telecom protocols like 3G & 4G (LTE), IEEE protocol 802.16 d & e and TCP/IP, DNS & DHCP.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting and XML to automate data flows.  ? Familiarity in web programming with HTML, CSS, Javascript, JSON and REST.  ? Involved in gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Experience with python libraries like pandas, numpy, sqlalchemy, subprocess & regex.  ? Good knowledge in databases like mysql and NoSql data base MongoDb.  ? High proficiency in Linux operating systems concepts, memory management, TCP/IP networking, file systems, command line operations and service monitoring  ? Developed python templates to create different call scenarios like CS, PS, Multi RAB, SMS, Simultaneous calls.  ? Developed driver application to interface UE modems (Mobile phones), sierra TUC modules.  ? Familiarity with version control systems like SVN, MKS, git and CVS.  ? Experience in tools like Jenkins, redmine, testlink and JIRA.  ? Familiarity with continuous integration and continuous deployment strategies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Application developer Paramount Global solutions June 2017 to Present Python application developer EMR Folks Inc June 2017 to Present Environment: Linux, Python, Pandas, matplotlib, apache, mysql    Brief description: This involves analyzing Electronic health record data and creating structures to analyze Patient demographics, allergies, Clinical history, Historical medications, Historical Radiology results, surgical & Family history, Immunizations and Problem lists. And this project also involves Assessment & Project plan, System build & Production maintenance.    Responsibilities:  • Requirement capture and system definition.  • Coordinate software system installation and monitor equipment functioning to ensure specifications are met.  • Establishment of requirement traceability matrix. Validation of the scope and estimates against the contract and revisions.  • Determining system performance standards.  • Designing of use cases elaborated in the analysis model are represented using collaboration diagrams.  • Develop and modify software systems using scientific analysis and mathematical models to predict and measure outcome and consequences of design.  • Integration testing with sample data sets to validate the output.  • User acceptance testing to ensure the system can be used easily, accurately and quickly.  • Extend and enhance functionality.  • Ongoing system maintenance. Python application developer IPAccess India / British Telecom Landon UK April 2016 to June 2017 Environment: Linux, Python, apache, mysql, LTE femto cell & OAM    Brief description: Presence collector is the system which collects customer data based on their location update. It provides the customer data to service provider which is being used for commercial purpose.    Responsibilities:  • Designing, developing and implementing new functionality.  • Developing data analytical databases from complex customer source data.  • Responsible for loading, extracting and validation of client data.  • Analyzing raw data, drawing conclusions & developing recommendations.  • Monitoring the automated loading processes.  • Carrying out specified data processing and statistical techniques.  • Supplying qualitative and quantitative data to colleagues & clients.  • Collecting, collating and carrying out complex data analysis in support of management & customer requests.  • Reporting statistical findings to work colleagues and senior managers. Python Application developer IPAccess India/ AT&T Texas October 2013 to March 2016 Environment: Ubuntu 12.04, Python, C++, Sierra TUC  Date: Oct 2013 to Mar 2016    Brief description: This framework is designed specific to certain objective which can be used to extract Radio data from 3G/4G Access points, configuring Access points, core network, software up gradation, communication to UE's, monitoring, validation, uploads the logs to FTP server.    Responsibilities:  • Development and Enhancement of Automation framework tool for UMTS(3G) & LTE 4G  • Analyzing call data, conclusions with tables & graphs.  • Design and development of Framework for simultaneous calls.  • Integration of TR069 with TAF.  • Implemented SMS service on TAF framework.  • Developing LTE UE Attach & Data test-cases  • Development of test cases using TAF framework for single Rab & Multi Rab combination of CS, R99, R5, R6 & R7 Rab's  • Added cell_fach support to UE modemcontroller and developed test cases for Cell_fach and 24 user features.  • Developed Fault management.  • Parsing test logs, AP logs, UE logs and Wireshark logs.  • Critical Bug Fixing and logging defects.  • Integration and Acceptance testing. Application developer IPAeccess India/ AT&T Tx March 2012 to September 2013 Environment: Ubuntu12.04, C, C++, Python  Date: Mar 2012 to Sep 2013    Brief description: UMTS, the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System is 3GPP protocol which uses WCDMA to carry radio transmissions. Femto/Pico cell is a small cellular base station, typically designed for use in a home or small business. It connects to the service provider's network via broadband. IPAccess's femto cell solution is called as Femto Access Point and Pico cell solution is called as Nano Access Point.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Admission control, PM counters and E16/24 features.  • Integrated the new modules to current stack.  • Development of Iuh Nss interface as core network simulator.  • Supported for end to end CS & PS call flows.  • Involvement in all the stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like Requirements specifications review, Test documentation, Application testing and Defect reporting.  • Participated in Requirement Specification Meetings (RSD) to understand the application's functional requirements to initialize the test scenarios, test flows and test procedures.  • Code optimization and refactoring.  • Writing and execution of Unit test plan.  • Fixing Asserts. Functional tester IPAccess Belgium/Cisco CA May 2011 to February 2012 Environment: TTCN3, Ubuntu12.04  Date: May 2011 to Feb 2012    Brief description: UMTS, the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System is 3GPP protocol which uses WCDMA to carry radio transmissions. Femto cell/Pico cell is a small cellular base station, typically designed for use in a home or small business. It connects to the service provider's network via broadband. IPAccess's femto cell solution is called as Femto Access Point and Pico cell solution is called as Nano Access Point.    Responsibilities:  • Development of HSDPA/HSUPA test cases and measurement control features.  • Development of new test templates.  • Development information elements (I.E's) for RRC protocol.  • Gathered specifications and requirements to develop Test Plans and to create Test Cases using Quality Center.  • Test case identification and development according to 3GPP specifications.  • Code refactoring.  • Developed the Positive and Negative Test Cases for various modules based on the business requirements.  • Actively participated in agile testing. Completed tasks on time for each sprint to meet the deadlines.  • Enhancement of Test framework  • Bug reporting and Regression.  • Prepared status summary reports with details of executed, passed and failed test cases.    Project: Wimax system support for Selex Senior software engineer TATA Elxsi India / Selex Italy March 2010 to April 2011 Brief description: The WiMax technology is based on the IEEE 802.16d/e standard. The Selex Wimax system communication involves Base band boards for MAC & PHY, FPGA board which includes Tx & Rx support, RF cables and attenuators. Tata Elxsi developed 5MHz Wimax system with CTC and CC support. Tata Elxsi is developing 1.25MHz Wimax system with CTC and CC support.    Responsibilities:  • Development of CP 1/4 system for different data rates.  • Improvement of data rates and performance.  • Development of 5MHz and 1.25MHz Wimax systems with CC and CTC support.  • Prepared Requirement Traceability Matrix to verify that all stated and derived requirements are allocated to system components.  • Functional testing of 1.25 Wimax system with CC and CTC support.  • Collaborated with the Release Deployment team to create and maintain an automated nightly build verification (smoke) test as well as Operations and Production Support team  • Developed reusable automated scripts for Database Updates and basic regression testing.  • Bringing up the boards and maintenance of lab set up.  • Bug fixing    Project: Development of Automation frame work for Infoblox appliance Automation developer Tata Elxsi India / Infoblox CA December 2008 to February 2010 Brief description: Infoblox appliance provides core network services including DNS, DHCP, IPAM and vDiscovery(VMware discovery). This appliance consists of NIOS and vNIOS software. vSphere Discovery is a feature that builds on the existing Network Discovery feature. During this project we developed test cases which tests Infoblox appliance, includes DNS, DHCP and vDiscovery features.    Responsibilities:  • Development of new features of automation test framework for Infoblox appliance.  • Automated test cases for various features of Infoblox appliance like vDiscovery, DHCP & DNS  • Performing automation validation of regression suite of test cases and reports.  • Principal developer for fixes and enhancements to the performance and service flow.  • Participating in defect review meetings and proactively bringing up issues to them resolved.  • Updating status reports and test execution plan.  • Patch upgrade for various builds in test labs.  • Bug reporting and Tracking  • Bug verification. Application developer & Functional tester Tata Elxsi India / Viasat CA December 2007 to November 2008 Environment: Cavium, Fedora core 5, C  Date: Dec 2007 to Nov 2008    Brief description: WiMAX, meaning Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access, is a tele communications technology that provides wireless transmission of data using a variety of transmission modes, from point-to-multipoint links to portable and fully mobile internet access, broadband speed without the need for cables. The WiMax technology is based on the IEEE 802.16 standard. WiMax supports very robust data throughput. Data throughput test is to test data rate between BSMAC & MSMAC for specified data service type (Eg: UGS, RTPS, NRTPS, ERTPS & BE) and packet length. Socket based communication was used here to send the data between BS & MS and BS & multiple MS's. This test set-up includes BSMAC & MSMAC on Intel PC & CAVIUM board using Iperf, IXIA & Wireshark tools.    Responsibilities:  • Data through put testing on different Test set ups as MAC on Cavium board and Intel PC.  • Developed the interface for multiple MS's.  • BSMAC application porting to Cavium board and integration.  • CAVIUM Board level changes at BSMAC  • Test case preparation for Data throughput testing with various Data rates/Quality of service.  • Trouble shooting and fixing.    Project: Wimax MAC Wave II (IEEE 802.16e) features Development Application developer & Functional tester Tata Elxsi India / Viasat CA March 2007 to November 2007 Brief description: The Mobile WiMax system profiles for wave-2 of WiMax Forum's requires a number of new features when compared to wave-1 features. IEEE 802.16e standard supports Wave II feature sets. This is an enhancement to the WiMAX stack (BS MAC) in Order to support the MIMO, MTC, IPv6 & HARQ.    Responsibilities:  • Development of wave II features like IPv6, MTC and HARQ to MAC layer.  • Requirement gathering as per specification.  • Functional Test case development & Test Frame work enhancement.  • Bug reporting and fixing.  • Regression Testing. Functional & Data through put tetser Tata Elxsi India / Viasat CA August 2006 to February 2007 Environment: Fedora core 5, C  Date: Aug 2006 to Feb 2007    Brief description: WIMAX is capable of forming wireless connections between them to permit the carrying of Internet packet data. TEL BSMAC STF (TATA ELXSI Base Station MAC System Test Frame Work) is developed to test all the features of BSMAC according to WiMAX IEEE Std. 802.16e-2000. STF report file is generated in which all the important info is stored where the sequence of flow can be checked.  All the above test cases are mapped against the TSS/TP.    Responsibilities:  • Identification of Test case according to Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS)  • Test case development Network Entry Messages Sequence, Service Flow Creation, Packing functionality, Concatenation and Fragmentation functionality  • Mapping the test case with TSS/TP  • Test Report Logging & Delivery Management Activities Embedded Application developer CDAC India September 2005 to July 2006 Environment: RT Linux, C, 8051MC, Stepper motor  Date: July 2005 to Apr 2006    Brief description: RTLinux is being employed here to control motor on which the camera is mounted. Under this project we developed software for viewing live images and control of a servo motor driven, two-axis mounted camera via a web page. While there are important commercial applications for this project, anything from security monitors to robotics and applications for this project, anything from security monitors to robotics and manufacturing.    Responsibilities:  • Design & Development of high level architecture.  • Addition of Kernel level modules.  • Integration of kernel modules.  • Hardware assembling & maintenance.  • Monitoring, validation and log collection.  • Unit testing. Education B.Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNTU College of Engg Diploma in Electronics and Communications in Electronics and Communications SV Govt. Polytechnic