Full Stack Software Consultant Full Stack Software Consultant Full Stack Software Consultant - Self Employed Monsey, NY Work Experience Full Stack Software Consultant Self Employed December 2010 to Present Utilize the full stack of web technologies to build software solutions from start to finish.  ? Employ advanced HTML5/JS techniques to provide highly responsive and user friendly interfaces.  ? Architect and implement backend python code for a wide variety of use cases.  ? Administer, automate and deploy web applications on a linux server. Python Software Consultant BuyBulkAmerica.com May 2016 to March 2019 Developed an e-commerce software platform with features borrowed from Amazon.com.  ? Worked on all aspects of the development cycle.  ? Handled all server-related administration and configuration. Python Software Consultant Centers Health Care December 2013 to May 2017 Developed a complex application for managing patient insurance tracking information.  ? Developed a drug recommendation system.  ? Developed an invoice allocation system.  ? Developed other projects to help streamline various internal business operations. Python Software Developer Graffitiwall.com October 2012 to April 2013 Developed a highly collaborative social platform for increasing interest in a product. Research Assistant - Java/Swing GUI Developer Research Foundation of CUNY September 2007 to December 2009 Implemented a 2D graphics intensive chromosome plotting application using Java/Swing.  ? Designed and implemented mathematical algorithms for scaling, zooming, and searching.  ? Performance tuned the database schema and application code to scale well with large amounts of data. Software Developer - Java/Ruby on Rails InfoExchange Inc August 2008 to February 2009 Developed services for a stock research providing application.  ? Implemented a user-keyword generating service using Spring and JMS.  ? Designed and implemented administration front-ends with Ruby on Rails utilizing back-end Java services.  ? Implemented entitlement functionality for fine-grained control over user content access.  ? Created attractive and interactive pages using jQuery. Computer Science Tutor Brooklyn College Learning Center September 2006 to December 2007 Taught students usage of the UNIX operating system and supervised the development of various projects.  ? Assisted students in C, C++, and JavaScript code development.  ? Explained unfamiliar topics using clear and intuitive instruction.  ? Motivated students in writing clear and efficient programs, while inspiring productivity.  MISCELLANEOUS  ? Spoken Languages: English, Russian, Hebrew  ? Interests: Programming Languages, Chess, Health & Fitness, Guitar Education M.A. in Computer Science in Computer Science City University of New York, Brooklyn College - Brooklyn, NY December 2009 PhD City University of New York, The Graduate Center Skills C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Python Links http://raminrakhamimov.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Technologies: Python, Javascript, Java, PostgreSQL, HTML/CSS, C#, C++, NGINX, Flask  ? Operating Systems: Linux, Windows, Mac OS X