Independent Python Developer Independent <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Independent Python Developer - RESTful API for California Department of Forestry Davis, CA Work Experience Independent Python Developer RESTful API for California Department of Forestry 2016 to Present Designed and implemented RESTful API for California Department of Forestry EXPERTISE  that drastically increasing front-end interoperability for both internal and public  users. Fluent  • Designed and built data storage system and transaction applications for several Python  private companies utilized by CALFIRE significantly optimizing business Numpy  processes Pandas  • Designed and created data management system and business process Django  monitoring applications for California Department of Agriculture grants Data Systems (RDBMS,  • Designed and created Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and related machine NoSQL, Graph)  learning processes for the recognition of anomalies within retinal imaging HTML  facilitating the early identification of hypertension related disorders. Proficient:  • Utilized: Python, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Django, Flask, Django Rest Framework, JavaScript Fellow UC Press 2016 to 2016 2016)  'perform' the thesis' theoretical • Fulbright-Hays Doctoral  • I designed, shot, and edited pratibimba: animal sacrifice and cultural imperialism, a Fellow  documentary film exploring how the people of the Western Himalayas relate to • Lilly Endowment Fellow  their own cultural heritage. I was responsible for every aspect of the film - from • University of California  sound engineering and language translation to post-production. President's Fellow  • Created and built an enormous data store of geographically indexed resources • Muktabodha Indological  about South Asian culture and history. The repository, which is still used at many Institute Fellow  universities. I initiated the project, built the data storage system, designed several • Designed and create  of its early user-interfaces, and travelled throughout South Asia to acquire the graduate group  resources themselves. (https://religiongradgroup.uc  • Utilized: Python, ARCGIS, SQL, PostgreSQL, Neo4j, BASH, JavaScript, ActionScript, davis.edu)  Adobe Creative Suite (particularly Premiere Pro, Flash, and Shockwave), Java, • Languages: Sanskrit, Hindi,  assorted geography related APIs Spanish, Pahari, French Assistant Professor UC Davis and NYU Keras, Tensorflow, NLTK, SciKit 2006 to 2016 Bootstrap  • Redesigned and refactored websites for both UC Davis and NYU resulting in Keras  significantly improved visibility. Tensorflow  • Designed a custom learning management system that allowed students simple NLTK,  and immediate access to one another and coursework resources. SciKit-Learn  • Developed an enormous data repository and access system for critical studies Scipy  unavailable anywhere. RESTful design  • Utilized: JavaScript, node.js, Bootstrap, MySQL, Social Media APIs, OAuth, Flask  ARCGIS, Python, PHP, HTML, CSS ARCGIS  AWS  GIT  PHP  SOFTWARE AND IT PROJECTS    • Designed and built a data system atop the ESRI ARC ecosystem that was the first  to integrate geographic information and qualitative data about the Western ACHIEVEMENTS  Himalayas. The project also implemented a graph database that modeled  unstructured, many-to-many relations.  University of Colorado. It leveraged JavaScript and ActionScript to combine a Religious in a Secular Age. Education Doctorate Links http://www.github.com/elmorem