Python / Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> / Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python / Django Developer • Over 5+ years of experience in software development in Python.  • Excellent understand of web applications UI experience, security, logging, backend services.  • Solid experience working with Django framework.  • Strong experience developing UI applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created numerous Django apps and extensively used Django Session and management.  • Implemented PEP8 coding standards across all projects.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Flask, PHP, Django, XML, JSON, CSS, HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  • Using django_evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and Oracle database.  • Experience with Test Driven Development (TDD) using rspec, factory girl and junit  • Good experience working on huge database.  • Excellent verbal and written skills, especially with regards to presenting findings to software.  • Able to deliver project under stringent timelines and high pressure.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design, coding and open stack development.  • Efficient in demonstrating all phases of software development life cycle.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Installed numerous python packages using pip and easy install.  • Very good understanding of Python requests module and HTTP requests, response, methods.  • Quick learner and flexible to work on multiple technologies.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Work Experience Python / Django Developer Frost Bank - Austin, TX April 2015 to July 2016 DESCRIPTION: Frost Bank is a leading provider of banking and financial services like credit card management, teller services, demand deposits, loans, Consumer credit, clearing, delinquency and line of credit. Credit card and bill payment Management system provides online corporate credit card services to clients. Working on various websites / applications for the bank.  Responsibilities:    • Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process from scratch by extending Django user model.  • Developed a new product for the unsecured loans featuring Term Business and personal loans.  • Used Restful web service calls for the validation.  • Implemented schema and data migration for the postgres database using South migration tool.  • Developed user-friendly modals for the form submissions using simplemodal.js, jQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Used Ruby to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  • Used Angular JS to update a portion of a web page/view thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Using Angular JS created custom directives to display data in UI.  • Migrated applications to the AWS cloud.  • Used Angular JS 2.0 as the development framework and done CRUD operations with $http service.  • Worked very closely with product owners, project managers and vendors to satisfy all the business needs.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript.    ENVIRONMENT: Python 2.7, Django, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, DOM, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and Python libraries such as Numpy. Python / Django Developer Samsung Inc February 2013 to July 2014 DESCRIPTION: Samsung is a top provider of information and communications technology, advertising, electronic components & healthcare. Worked on the development of websites and mobile applications for the Samsung Inc.    Responsibilities:  • Used Python, Django and Zope frameworks to develop applications  • Strong database skills with MySQL, PostgreSQL.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery and Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frame works like Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Created automated test scripts for web applications with Ruby.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Developed and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  • Implemented SQLAlchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keywords using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for web scrapping.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Implemented Angular JS Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server.  • Developed form validation with Angular JS $valid, and data validation.  • Used AJAX and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers    ENVIRONMENT: Python 2.7, PHP, Django, Angular.js, CVS, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MYSQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, UNIX Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux, Weblogic Application Server. Python /Django Developer Bio-Rad Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2012 to February 2013 DESCRIPTION: Bio-Rad labs is engaged in the development and production of life science research, healthcare, analytical chemistry.  Responsibilities:    • Responsible for setting up networks through design and development.  • Performed analysis of PHP/C++ code to figure out the business logic.  • Developed GUI using HTML, AJax, Javascript and JQuery.  • Coding using Angular JS for user interface  • Created responsive web design using HTML5, Bootstrap3 and Angular JS  • Supported internationalization by using Angular JS Translate module to translate the data in other languages  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing charges and creating efficient system.  • Involved in the development ORM Queries used web services for integration with back office system.  • Used Python Django creating graphics XML processing data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used SVN and GIT sub version control tools to coordinate development of team.  • Supported Apache server on Linux platform.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Built web journal with flask framework and Jinja templates.  • Thus involves designing database model for the entire application like creating tables views and stored procedure using Mongo DB.  • Manage collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Special skills in developing user friendly simple yet effective web based applications.    ENVIRONMENT: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, CSS, HTML, Angular.js ,JavaScript, jQuery, webbapp2, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT, urllib, urllib2, PostgreSQL. Skills Ajax (3 years), CSS (3 years), database (3 years), Django (3 years), HTML (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems  MongoDB, SQL Server, Oracle and PostgreSQL, Versioning Tools Git, SVN, CVS Web servers Apache, Flask Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows    Python Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, PETL, TORNADO, Flask Framework, HTML, Bootstrap, jQuery, Numpy, matPlotLib, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables    Development Tools  PyCharm, Notepad++, SVN, Eclipse, MS FrontPage, MS-Office, Sublime, Windows PowerShell, Sony Dadc, Magento, Slack, Redis. Servers Unix, Linux, DBMS MySQL, MS SQL, SQLLite3, No SQL, PostgreSQL, SQL Alchemy Operating Systems Windows, Mac and Linux.    Technical Writing Tools MSWord, Excel, Pages, Terminal BI Tools Tableau 8.x/7.x/6.x, Microsoft Visual Studio.  Databases Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and NoSQL database MongoDB (2.6,2.4)  Version Controls SVN, VSS, CVS, GitHub.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP, Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins.  Web Servers JBoss 4.0.5, BEA Web Logic, Web Sphere, Appache Tomcat 5.5/6.0.  Methodologies Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall.    Capital One Bank, Richmond, VA Aug2016 Sep2017  Python / Django Developer    DESCRIPTION: Capital One Financial Corporation is an American bank holding company specializing in credit cards, home loans, auto loans, banking and savings products. Capital One is the eighth-largest bank holding company in the United States when ranked by assets and deposits.  Responsibilities:  • Developed and implemented Capital One Snoopy Application using Django Web Framework.  • Used Chart Js along with JQuery to display the statistics in the form of charts to the user on the dashboard.  • Implemented excel like functionality in web application using Handsontable and JQuery.  • Used SQLite database for storing master data and using it in web application.  • Pandas data frame was used to perform filtering and generating the results.  • The web application was developed using HTML, Bootstrap CSS, JQuery and Handsontable.  • Deploy the changes bi weekly to production and respond to queries if any.  • Complete ownership of web application development and deployment.  • Understanding and experience working with relational databases(PostgreSQL. MySQL).  • Used JQuery UI and some other plugins (Angular.js)to achieve desired functionality.  • Performed requirement analysis and prepared design documents.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to the GitHub.  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked on Bug fixes.    ENVIRONMENT: Python 3.x, Django 1.8, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX.