(Pinsightmedia) DevOps Engineer (Pinsightmedia) DevOps Engineer (Pinsightmedia) DevOps Engineer Kansas City, MO Work Experience (Pinsightmedia) DevOps Engineer Sprint, Inc - Kansas City, MO February 2016 to Present Create platform standards of creating all the company's program stacks from scratch for Ruby on Rails, Python, Java, and Go stacks. Implimented naming conventions across all network, environment, server, VPCs, scripts, and programs. Worked on creating deployment and sequence diagram standards for the company platforms. Created automation tools, apis, and infrstructure to bring the company up to industry standard of continous integration (CI) . Utilized tools such as Puppet, Chef, Ansible, and Jenkins to allow for CI infrastructure.    ? Maintained a library of Bash, Cron, and Python scripts to integrate AWS, Data Ingested from DMP, and logs to the appropriate locations.  ? Solved Sev 0-3 tickets/issues with 24/7 support Founder/CEO/Android/iOS / Python Ryf, Inc - New York, NY October 2012 to Present Founded a startup based on an audio streaming application similar to the content focused version of Spotify. Hired and ran a team of up to 12 members in a Scrum/Agile Methodology while utilizing source control, coding on all applications being released using MVC models, holding training sessions, QA testing production code, and releasing production code to live servers or services (Apple/Android)    ? Raised $150K in angel funding over a year and a half  ? Coded 4 Yapster Python/Django APIs (3 launched), Coded 3 Yapster iPhone Applications (1 launched), Coded 3 Yapster Android Applications with Material Design for Android Lollipop, Coded 2 Yapster Web Application (1 launched)  ? Started/Configured/Maintain AWS Architecture, Servers, Security, and API  ? Integrated AWS, Facebook, and Twitter APIs  ? Utilize Github for version control for many of the applications  ? Administered Agile/Scrum methodology  ? Custom front end animations for web and android applications Python/Django Developer Comcast, Inc - Kansas City, MO December 2015 to March 2016 Helped in the development of the internal CMS engine that is utilized for monitoring Comcast hardware devices' communication, health, traffic, and repair procedures. Developed a variety of graphs, website pages, alerting mechanisms, and backend technologies that were utilized to parse, process, and input GiB's of daily data of Comcast devices' usage. Communicated and participated in Agile/Scrum methodology, SVN/Git code maintainence, and training of new additions to the team.    ? Maintained 2 Corporate Python/Django Web applications  ? Created graphing and data processing mechanism utilizing Redis, cron-jobs, parsing via code, web libraries  ? Maintained Python Django API (1.7/1.8) iOS/Android/ Python/Django/Ruby on Rails Developer Cerner, Inc - Kansas City, MO August 2015 to October 2015 Aided the building of the mobile team for the company's new only client healthcare application for doctors and patients. Developed key feature sets for both Android and iOS components all while participating in the larger group's main focus of a web base Django application. Communicated and participated in Agile/Scrum methodology, SVN/Git code maintenance, and training of new additions to the team.    ? Maintained 3 Corporate iOS applications in Objective-C for Xcode 6.4/7.1 and iO 8.4/9.0  ? Maintained 2 Corporate Android applications in Java utilizing Android Studio and Android Marshmallow and Lollipop (5.0+ / 6.0+)  ? Maintained Ruby on Rails API Application for the mobile applications.  ? Maintained Python Django API (1.7/1.8) Android/iOS Developer DiceIt - Android - New York, NY July 2015 to August 2015 Developed applications based on making time consuming decisions quickly thought an application that randomly queries the item you're looking for and makes a decision so you don't have to using MVC models. This is a personal project.    ? Coded Android Application with Material Design for Android Lollipop  ? Coding iOS application in Swift  ? Coded Python/Django API (1.9+)  ? Integrated Facebook, TheMovieDB, Google Places API  ? Custom Animations, Gesture Movements/Recognizers, and Core Data utilized Consulting iOS Developer NannyNw, LLC - New York, NY March 2015 to August 2015 Utilized MVC models while developing both a Python/Django API for the client as well as then was making a front end mobile iOS application. Utilized social media integration, geo location based on demand Uber like booking system, and Stripe credit card and payment system.    ? Coding NannyNw mobile babysitting/nanny services iOS application in Swift  ? Coding NannyNw Python Django API  ? Started/Configured/Maintain AWS Architecture, Servers, Security, and API iOS/Android/ Python/Django Developer Through Gursimar, Inc - Dallas, TX August 2008 to October 2012 Participated in iOS, Android, and Python development of mobile and web applications. This usually resided around editing and updating old code to update versions/features. Remotely as well as traveled to local companies that required weekly edits. Usually resided around 1- 4 week contracts.    Skills  Programming Languages: Java, JavaScript, Objective C, C++, Swift, SQL, Python, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, GO    Databases: MySQL, PostGreSQL, SQLLite, Oracle, SQL Server, Core Data    Tools: Eclipse, Android Studio, Pycharm, Sublime Text, Xcode, Terminal, Github, Balsamiq Mockups, Photoshop    Operating Systems: Linux, Mac OS, Windows, iOS (6.0-9.2), Android (4.0-6.0+), Windows Mobile OS  Services: SSH, Cloud Computing Tools, PGSQL3, NGINX, Apache, Google Chrome Dev Tools, StackOverflow, Linux,    Python Packages: GEO Django, GDAL, R, PsyNum, Django TastyPie, South, Pagination, Flask, Django Rest Framework, Django Facebook, Django Twitter, Django Celery, Random, Requests, Django 1.6-1.9    AWS Services: EC2-Servers, S3 Storage, RDS Databases, CloudFront, DynamoDB, IAM Management, CloudWatch, Elastic Beanstalk, SQS, Cognito, Datapipeline, EMR, AWS CLI    APIs: Facebook, Twitter, RottenTomatoes, AWS, Google Places, TheMovieDB, Paypal, Stripe Payment API, Google Cloud    Soft Skills: Communication, teamwork, organization, public speaking, detail oriented, fiscal responsibility, sense of urgency Education Global Liberal Studies New York University 2011 to 2012 Liberty High School - Frisco, TX May 2000 to 2011