Senior Cassandra Developer Senior Cassandra <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Cassandra Consultant - ( Cassandra64129@gmail.com ) Austin, TX Rajesh K  Phone: 443-598-2899  Email Id: cassandra64129@gmail.com     Note: Available only for Corp-Corp Projects    Professional Summary:    • Over 8+ years of professional IT experience in Big Data Technologies and Data Analysis with 4+ years of hands-on experience in development and design of applications in Java and its related frameworks.  • Experienced in installing, configuring and monitoring the Datastax Cassandra Cluster, DevCenter and OpsCenter.  • Excellent understanding of Cassandra Architecture and management tool like OpsCenter  • Commendable knowledge on read and write processes, including SSTables, MemTables and Commitlog  • Experience with querying on data present in Cassandra cluster using CQL (Cassandra Query Language)   • Used DataStaxOpsCenter and nodetool utilities to monitor the cluster.  • Experience in taking the data backups through nodetool snapshots.  • Experience in moving the SSTables data on to the live cluster .  • Experience in using Sqoop to import the data on to Cassandra tables from different relational databases   • Tested the application and the cluster with different consistency levels to check for the writes and reads performance with respective to Consistency Level.  • Experience in Importing data from various sources to the Cassandra cluster using Java API’s  • Experience in data modeling of Cassandra.  • Experience in creating tables involving collections,TTLs,counter,UDTs as part of data modeling.  • Knowledge of Hadoop Ecosystem.  • Good experience in using Elastic Map Reduce on Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud for supporting data analysis projects.  • Basic Knowledge of Spark and SCALA programming  • Knowledge of managing and scheduling backup and restore operations   • Experience in benchmarking Cassandra Cluster using Cassandra stress tool  • Developed wrapper applications involving File I/O processing, Data Mining using python  • Read data from local files, XML files, excel files and involved in Input Output Processing using different packages in python  • Experience in python, Jupyter, Scientific computing stack (numpy,scipy,pandasand matplotlib)  • Good experience in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (Analysis of requirements, Design, Development, Verification and Validation, Deployment)  • Hands on experience in application development using Java, .NET, RDBMS, and Linux shell scripting.  • Experience working with JAVA J2EE, JDBC, ODBC, Servlets.   • Experience using Eclipse, Visual Studio and DBMS like Oracle, MYSQL and SQL Server.  • Evaluate and propose new tools and technologies to meet the needs of the organization.  • Good knowledge in Unified Modeling Language (UML)and Agile Methodologies.  • Excellent team player, self-starter with effective communication skills. Work Experience Senior Cassandra Developer VISA - Austin, TX January 2015 to Present Rajesh K  Phone: 443-598-2899  Email Id: cassandra64129@gmail.com   _______________________________________________________________    Responsibilities:  • Have complete knowledge and understanding with Cassandra Architecture.  • Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Datastax Cassandra.  • Involved in business requirement gathering and proof of concept creation.  • Created the necessary keyspaces and modeled column families based on the queries  • Involved in Hardware installation and capacity planning for cluster setup.  • Involved in the hardware decisions like CPU, RAM and disk types and quantities.  • Worked with the Linux admin team to set up, configure, initialize and troubleshoot aCassandra cluster.  • Wrote and modified YAML scripts to set the configuration properties like node addresses, replication factors, memTable size and flush times etc.  • Used the Datastax Opscenter for maintenance operations and Keyspace and table management.  • Experience in working with cluster management tool like nodetool.  • Involved in taking the data backups through nodetool snapshots.  • Involed in moving the SSTables data on to the live cluster.  • Restoring the backups through sstableloader tool in Cassandra.  • Generated SSTables from csv file with the help of SSTableSimpleUnsortedWriter class in Java.  • Used Sqoop to import the data on to Cassandra tables from different relational databases like Oracle, MySQL.  • Tested the application and the cluster with different consistency levels to check for the writes and reads performance with respective to Consistency Level.  • Monitoring the Cassandra cluster with the help of Visualization management tool, OpsCenter.  • Familiar with all the internal tools of Cassandra.  • Involved in POC related to Spark Application using SCALA as programming language  • Basic Knowledge of Spark and SCALA  • Basic knowledge of Cassandra-Spark connector to load data to and from Cassandra  • Loading the data to Cassandra Cluster with the help of Java API.  • Involved in data modeling the tables in Cassandra.  • Good knowledge of data modeling techniques in Cassandra.  • Finding and resolving the issues that caused in the environment.  • Analyzed the log files to determine the flow of the application and to solve issues.  • Knowledge on using Solr for indexing.    Environment: Datastax 4.7, Cassandra 2.1, DevCenter, Cqlsh, OpsCenter, Shell Scripting, Maven, Eclipse Cassandra Developer BMO Harris Bank - Milwaukee, WI October 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in data modeling the tables in Cassandra.  • Involved in implementing different data modeling techniques in Cassandra.  • Experience in working with cluster management tool like nodetool.  • Familiar with all the internal tools of Cassandra.  • Finding and resolving the issues that caused in the environment.  • Created several tables as a part of data modeling and determined the performance of the table through load testing with Cassandra -stress tool.  • Analyzed the log files to determine the flow of the application and to solve issues.  • Developed wrapper application using python which invokes the Java application and performs various File I/O operations  • Used python scientific computing libraries such as numpy, scipy, pandas, matplotlib for data mining  • Developed notebooks using Jupyter and involved in software development using python in Spyder.    Environment: Python 2.7, Python 3, Jupyter, Spyder, Pyscripter, Datastax Cassandra 2.0 Java Developer Paraxel International March 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in requirement gathering and analysis of the project.  • Designed the functional specifications and architecture of the web-based module with the help of Java/J2EE Technologies.  • Created the Design specification with the help of UML Class Diagrams, Sequence and Activity Diagrams  • Involved in Developing the Web Application using MVC Architecture, Java, JSP, Servlets and Oracle Database.  • Developed different Java classes, SQL queries and procedures in order to retrieve and manipulate the data from backend Oracle database using JDBC.  • Extensively worked on user interface development using Java Script.  • Analyzed the business requirements and developed System Architecture document for the project enhancement.  • Deployed the web application on to the apache tomcat server running on LINUX machines.  • Provided Impact Analysis and Test cases to the application.  • Delivered the code within the timeline, and logged the bugs/fixes in tracking system  • Developed Unit and Functional Testing for the Web Application to ensure the quality.    Environment: Windows NT 2000/2003, UNIX, Java, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, ORACLE, Apache TOMCAT,  Maven Java/ J2EE Developer Fujitsu India Pvt Ltd November 2009 to February 2011 Fujitsu was creating a customer care website for its Asia-Pacific customers for its memory products. I was involved with the Java and Web development team to execute this project.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOA/OOD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  • Proficient in doing Object Oriented Design using UML-Rational Rose.  • Created Technical Design Documentation (TDD) based on the Business Specifications.  • Created JSP pages with Struts Tags and JSTL.  • Developed UI using HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Implemented the web-based application following the MVC II architecture using Struts framework.  • Used XML DOM API for parsing XML.  • Developed Scripts for automation of productions tasks using Perl, UNIX scripts.  • Used ANT for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files.  • Used JUnit for the unit testing of various modules.  • Project coordination with other Development teams, System managers and web master and developed good working environment.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, MVC, Servlet, Struts, PL/SQL, XML, UML, JUnit, ANT, Perl, UNIX. Python, .NET Developer Fact set December 2007 to October 2009 Responsibilities:  • Developed Windows Applications using Microsoft Technologies and .NET framework.  • Good exposure of Object Oriented analysis and design, Agile methodology using SCRUM process approach  • Experience in development of Windows Forms using ASP.NET, C# .NET.  • Experience in data-driven applications using python.  • Developed scripts for FILE I/O processing using python.  • Involved in parsing XML, XSLT using parsers available in .NET Framework.  • Gained experience in Network programming using HTTP requests GET and PUT methods  • Parsed CSV Files and converting to specific format using python  • Developed data-driven applications using ADO.NET and Entity Framework.  • Developed various windows Forms for GUI applications using Visual Studo.    Environment:Microsoft Visual Studio, MS SQL Server, Pyscripter, DOORS, Clearquest Education Bachelor's