Backend Engineer Backend Engineer Backend Engineer - Entropy Technology Jersey City, NJ ? Over 5 years of IT experience in designing, developing web based enterprise application development in analytical programming using Python technologies.  ? Hands on experience on Banking and Technology domain.  ? Strong knowledge in Algorithm and Data Structures.  ? Extensive experience in Python, Django.  ? Experience in implementing server-side technologies with RESTful APIs and MVC design patterns with Django REST Framework.  ? Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  ? Experienced with ORM (Object-relational mapping) such as Django ORM and SQLAlchamy, database design and normalization.  ? Expert level skills in developing UI Web applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Proficient in creating Single page applications using Angular JS along with routing and custom directives.  ? Familiar with creating SQL, PL/SQL statements for the effective retrieval and storage of data from the database with PostgreSQL and MySQL.  ? Developed, created and executed unit test cases unittest and nose within TDD (Test Driven Development) environment.  ?Experience in deploying enterprise applications by using Jenkins for Continuous Integration/ Continuous Deployment (CI / CD) for reporting.  ? Experience on developing blockchain technologies or solutions by Hyperledger Fabric in Go.  ? Hands-on experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS) and implement of HDFS by using Hadoop Mapreduce with EC2.  ? Worked on AWS for continuous integration of and worked for the back-end development using Node.js and MongoDB.  ? Experience with Atlassian product JIRA creating workflow, customizing workflows, workflow schemes and experience with Source Control Management platform like GitHub and Bitbucket.  ? Deployed Docker Engines in Virtualized Platforms for containerization of multiple apps.  ? Highly motivated to take independent responsibility as well as has the ability to contribute and be a productive team member. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Backend Engineer Entropy Technology - Jersey City, NJ September 2016 to Present Description:  In entropy, we've designed and established a single platform to helps businesses to simplify, structure, and optimize their recruiting and human resources management. we utilize big data analysis and natural language processing to assign team responsibilities, manage candidates, collaborate with colleagues, and use data to help making informed decisions.  Responsibilities:  ? Collaborated with co-workers to establish back-end conventions, principles, and patterns.  ? Designed and implemented RESTful APIs using Django REST Framework to deal with requests from front-end.  ? Implemented storage layer to retrieve and update data in PostgresSQL database.  ? Integrated AWS SQS as a message system to forward instance activities and notifications.  ? Designed and implemented workers which retrieve data from PostgresSQL and do CUD/bulk indexing on Elasticsearch by AWS SQS messages.  ? Added pipeline for saving local files to cloud leveraging AWS S3.  ? Used JWT(JSON Web Tokens) for user-login Authentication.  ? Leveraged SendCloud APIs for email cloud management services.  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle using Teambition.  ? Built unit testing of the application by using Factory Boy, Faker, nose/unittest following TDD (Test Driven Development) methodology.  ? Integrated the Circle CI/Jenkins for continuous integration for site reliability.  ? Performed routine code review, bug tracking and version control using Git.  Environment: Python 3.6, Django 1.11, Django REST Framework 3.6.3, PostgresSQL 2.7.3, PyJWT 1.5.2, Git. Python Developer Citi Bank - New York, NY December 2015 to August 2016 Description:  Fraud Transaction Reporter is a full scope project that can be used by the Citi Bank's internal team to analyze and generate reports for the fraud transactions reported. This project helps to timely monitor and respond to the reports and keep an active check on different transactions.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Agile Environment having daily stand up meetings, planning meeting and face-to-face communication.  ? Designed and developed Application based on the Django MVC Framework using MVC design pattern. Involved in building a single page and cross browser compatible web application using Angular 1.5 and bootstrap.  ? Developed the REST API using Django Restful Framework for fetching the data from PostgreSQL database.  ? Built farm data and load into the PostgreSQL database using SQLAlchemy.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Used Test Driven (TDD) approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python unittest framework.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the main applications that were sources of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Configured Continues Integration and Continues Deployments jobs on Jenkins.  ? Used Git for version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, AWS, Django RESTFul Framework 3.3.0, JSON, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, XML, Agile, PostgreSQL. Senior Python Developer 7 Days Inn - CN June 2014 to April 2015 Project: Booking Management System    Description  7 Days Inn is a famous Chinese budget hotel chain.  We provided a Booking Management System for customers to book room more easily. This system can also generate a clear record for customers to trace, including order details and room information.  Responsibilities  ? Involved in gathering requirements for the project and design.  ? Performed the UI development using MVT pattern.  ? Updated and manipulated the contents and files in the data base by implementing Python scripts.  ? Used Django models to create database mapping classes  ? Created Reports using JASPER.  ? Performed large data manipulation and retrieval using the Pandas API and converted the data as a time series  ? Developed the code using Test Driven Development (TDD). Followed good coding and standards, reviews and refactoring has done using different open source tools.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Scipy, Pandas, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache, XML, JASPER Python Developer Wanglibao - CN October 2012 to January 2014 Project: P2P Lending system    Description:  P2P Lending System is to a method of debt financing that enables individuals to borrow and lend money without the use of an official financial institution as an intermediary.  We provided several services for customers including user system, payment system and channel invitation system. Also, we used asymmetric encryption to keep customers safe.  Responsibilities:  ? Created webforms using Python/Django Framework that saved data into a database.  ? Utilized Pandas - Python library for analyzing data and data structures.  ? Developed DAOs (Data Access Object) which retrieve data from MySQL database using SQL.  ? Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and SQLite  ? Performed front-end development for web initiatives to ensure usability, using HTML and CSS.  ? Used JIRA tracking tool for assigning and defect management.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Scipy, Numpy, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Jira Education Master's