GIS Python Developer GIS <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python, React and Android Developer San Francisco, CA Creative and analytical skills using Python, Android Java , R and Scala languages. Special experience with Django, Flask, Nodejs(IoT), PostGIS server technologies. Worked with Samsung Artik Cloud, Amazon AWS,and Google Cloud. Worked in Health , Education, Home Automation IoT and GIS space. Seeking position in San Francisco Bay Area. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience GIS Python Developer Boundary Solutions - Mill Valley, CA February 2018 to Present Using React, Python, Arcpy, Flask, GDAL and Postgresql to create tools for geoprocessing geographic data. Full Stack development with Python Flask, Django and React. Also developed Amazon AWS Web application for companies catalog of products. Python Developer and AWS Cloud Autodesk - San Rafael, CA October 2017 to January 2018 Developing a Marketing Cloud Service on Amazon AWS. Developed serverless application using AWS Lambda, S3, Redshift and RDS. Also worked on Python based service on EC2. Using Atom for coding, Postman and SQL Workbench for testing and debugging and PyCharm for CloudFormation authoring. Also wrote unittest scripting. Fullstack Developer Boundary Solutions Inc. - Mill Valley, CA August 2017 to October 2017 Created website for No Lie US project Python and Android Developer HCL at Google May 2017 to July 2017 Work on Google internal services infrastructure management software. Used Googles Cloud computing tools including Cider and Blaze. Also worked on their Android application with AppEngine backend. Programmer Analyst at Samsung SSIC ID8 Samsung Strategic and Innovations Center February 2016 to November 2016 Developed 5 Android applications using Artik Cloud REST services for their various reference designs. Also developed cloud connected IoT applications using their new Artik MCU devices and Artik Cloud servers(uses Lightbend's Play, and Akka), Created REST server with Python language, Numpy, Pandas Flask with Amazon AWS Dynamodb & machine learning integration. Connect Artik Cloud with Microsoft Azure EventHub. Created Wearable apps Samsung Gear S2 and Gear Fit 2. All work done in Agile manner. All development was AGILE.  • Worked on both server(java, python, nodejs) & client development(Android & HTML) ie Fullstack..  • Developed home security system with Android, IoT sensors, hub and cloud.  • Developed Android Health app with Bluetooth connection to fitness wrist band.  • Researched, prototyped convex optimization algorithms to fit meal portions to nutrient targets of app Python Programmer Boundary Solutions June 2015 to February 2016 and March 2017 to May  Wrote utilities to transform geographic data(shapefiles and gdb database) for ArcGIS with PostGIS. Also worked with command line utils: org2org, shp2pgsql, psql; and python packages: Arcpy, Geopanda, Generated maps for public transportation and housing plans for reducing traffic. Built Django application. Lead Developer and Cofounder RxShare Inc. - Redwood City, CA 2014 to 2015 Designed mobile Android(Java native) app for managing medical supplies. Worked with SDK and NDK. Created Python applications( scipy, numpy & Cython with scikit-image) for developing data processing components. Experimented with Flask and Tornado Python servers. Used Angular.js for most views in of mobile app..Worked with OpenCV and Tesseract OCR. Wrote specs for team. Designed for security to meet HIPA requirements. Programmer Analyst - Contracted Kaiser February 2012 to January 2014 Developed (Agile) components of call center software for handling member calls, making appointments, recording call times an outcomes. Specialized in computer-telephone-integration (CTI). Utilized Flex 4.5, Charles, SOAP UI and SQL browser tools & some Javascript. All work performed with HIPAA.compliance Web Developer CitizenVC August 2011 to November 2011 Development HTML 5 webpages containing forms for users make small investments in startups.  • Used Dreamweaver for building HTML 5 pages  • Used JQuery(Core and UI) for AJAX data retrieval and dynamic html page generation.  • Used JQuery Mobile and PhoneGap to create Android mobile web and native versions.    Senior Flex Developer - Adobe Inc (through TechPro). (July through August 2011)  Worked with team of Flex developer on developing application for analysis of company employment - intended for managers and Human Resources.  • Customized Flex charting components for employee employment analytics.  • Used Parsley Framework to manage UI events Software Developer/Designer December 2009 to October 2010 Develop Flex Web E-Leaning application.  • Calls Java webservices backend using "webservice" Flash API  • Reused PureMVC framework from Air application from prior project with CTT Flex Developer Traction(through Creativecircle) Air App November 2009 to December 2009 At Traction: 3 week project; Helped create Air App Used extensively 'states', Transitions and Effects API.    Flash Developer - Jumpstart through Robert Half Technology. Short 2 day banner creation project.  • Used Greensock Tweenlite toolkit  • Call Rest service backend Software Developer Jiva Creative September 2009 to November 2009 and 5/2010 to 6/2010 and 10/2010 to 5/2011)  Worked in Flex 3 and 4 with "Swiz" framework. Interfaced to PHP backend.. Worked on scientific computing application. Used Flex Charting for assisting in algorithm analysis and code debugging. Used tools such as Charles, Flex Unit, Bug Genie and SVN. Later created mobile version for Android devices.  • Used Swiz Framework  • Used Flex Unit Test Framework  • Created Android client Software Developer/Designer May 2001 to August 2009 Developed Adobe Air application using Flex and Flash. Used SQLLite and PureMVC framework.  • Created Flex Adobe Air application and used Flash for creating Flex components (FCK)  • Used Flash Game creation libraries to develop concept maps(Graph data structures)  • Used PureMVC framework for the infrastructure  • Used Adobe Air Safari HTML and SQLite Actionscript 3 extensions Flex Developer LiveTouch Inc - Alameda, CA April 2008 to February 2009 Developed Flex application for "Unified Communications" of phone calls, chat and email. Created control and data processing Actionscript components with connections to Jabber server(mostly chat and call state data). Also utilized REST calls to PBX switch for initiating calls. Developed additional components for call logging, contact database views and call scheduling. Some application Mashing with Google. Used IFrames and Javascript for nesting views of Web applications like FUSE and SugarPro inside Flex application.  • Used Adobe Flex Profiler for memory leak detection and cpu load  • Created Actionscript 3.0 modules for future application SDK  • Developed Flex Actionscript 3.0 REST and XMPP transaction handling.  • Developed thick client version of application using host Zinc tools and player Software Developer Emergent Game Technology Walnut Creek CA - Walnut Creek, CA December 2006 to September 2007 Developed (as part of team) Dashboard product for testing games and analyzing results. Used Flex 2.0  • Programmed in Actionscript 3.0 with Flex 2.0  • Used Perforce to submit and maintain code base and Bugzilla for logging bugs Software Developer SwatEnergy at Richmond CA - Richmond, CA March 2006 to August 2007 Designed and developed a spreadsheet application server utilizing Excel(with VBA),Visual Basic, WebServices and Remoting using ASP.NET and C#, Javascript (AJAX), CSS and Access database. Programmed XML data processing using XSLT. Built on-line CBT courses for Chevron Oronite using Flash. Integrated(SCORM) into LMS. Created Flash JSFL tools.  • Created Excel application with VBA in client and C# webservices and remoting for server.  • Used C# for automation of Excel instance that's running on server.  • Created Flash Animations(Flash 7) to illustrate machinery and lubrication  • Submitted Flash based CBT modules to company LMS(Knowledge Planet) Flash Programmer Simulat at Berkeley CA - Berkeley, CA November 2005 to February 2006 Developed the 2D Cad component of their Mosaic product using Flash 8. Mosaic allows users to create mosaic tiling in the interior of homes and offices and uses many of the latest features of Flash 8. The 2D Cad component allows the user to specify where the tile-work will be applied. Mosaic provides 3D visualization of the tile-work and the user is done. Also designed MySQL database for Mosaic content. Flash Developer - Animation Mentor at Berkeley CA Berkeley, CA May 2005 to June 2005 Created chat application using Flash and Flash Communication Server, Berkeley CA  • Programmed in Actionscript 2.0 on client and server-side AS for server Flash Developer Pharmaceuticals at Vitesse Learning - San Francisco, CA March 2005 to May 2005 Edited course flash files in Pharmaceuticals at Vitesse Learning, San Francisco CA    Programmer, Database & Documentation - Sonoma Computer Integrators, Novato CA SCI is in the business creating electronic manuals for use in large industrial systems. My job was to translate descriptions of user needs into a computer program and then design production procedures. It also involved the management of other workers assisting in producing the content. This entailed writing work procedures, and training them to use the software tools I created for streaming lining their tasks.  • Created 'DLL's" with C for file conversion tasks in "Interactive Electronic Technical Manuals" (IETM).  • Utilized SGML syntax and OmniMark program to create parser for Framemaker + SGML  • Created parts catalog with SQLWindows and SQLBase database(Gupta).  • Designed procedures and production tools for conversion of Turbine Engine word documents to IETM  • Created CDROM based instructional manual on corporate Law    Student Researcher - Ballhaus Fellowship SJSU and NASA Ames/Turbomachinery & Turbulence Group, Moffett Field CA; Solved Navier-Stokes equations numerically(CFD)for jet engine compressor. Used Cray and SGI Iris Workstation. Worked on masters thesis involving spectral solution(FFT) to PDE modeling chemical reaction front; created GUI on SGI.    Systems Test Engineer - Rockwell International NAAO Division  This position required the coordinating the activities of parts procurement, test department, test engineering and management of floor aircraft technicians. This generally involved scheduling aircraft testing when the aircraft is configured and the technicians are available.  • Tested cockpit navigation instruments under simulated flight conditions  • Used remote computer and RF instruments to test avionics and flight control.  • Analyzed ATLAS programs for test instrument and aircraft interface.  • Wrote test procedures for aircraft UHF radio, intercom and satellite communication system Education Certicate (by completing 8 four week courses) in Data Science John Hopkins School of Public Health through Coursera 2014 to 2017 AS in Electronics Technology in Electronics Technology College of Marin 2003 Masters Program in Engineering and Computer Science Sonoma State University 2001 Certificate in Adult Education UC Berkeley Extension 2001 MS in Applied Mathematics in computation San Diego State University BS. in Electronics Engineering in communications Cal Polytechnic State University PhD Candidate (Did not attend) in Math UC Santa Cruz - Santa Cruz, CA Skills Android (2 years), HTML (5 years), java (2 years), Python (4 years), Scala (Less than 1 year), Javascript (4 years), Actionscript (7 years), R (Less than 1 year), Flask, Django, Restful, AWS Links https://sites.google.com/site/ronaldgbjork/home https://github.com/rbjork Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Analytic software developer with more than fifteen years of experience in computer programming, project management and as a system test engineer. Able to draw on in-depth experience to identify and resolve/solve production/product design issues. Knowledge of application areas such as computer-based training, web applications, Android, data science, Python and Java server frameworks, IoT.and FullStack. Creative problem solver with expertise in engineering, math and computer languages. Recent acquisition of skills in functional programming in javascript and scala.  • 15 Years Software Exp. 3 in Fullstack, 3 in Android, 2 in Python & Java , 5 in Flex & javascript  • MS, BS and AS degrees in Engineering and Math  • Certifications in Android, Scala, Data Science with Python, Algorithm, Media Authoring  Portfolio: ( mobile only currently: https://sites.google.com/site/ronaldgbjork/home )  Repos: https://github.com/rbjork/    SKILLS  Client Cloud Server Data Analysis Mobile Hardware  JQuery UI Play Spring Boot R Language, Android Java Nordic Semi. nRF*  AJAX RxJava Apache Spark Matlab JQuery Mobile Samsung Artik 5 MCU  Angular / Rx REST Postgresql TensorFlow Bluetooth Arduino/Edison  Android AWS EC2 Java/Scala/ Python Apache Spark PhoneGap Microsemi- SmartFusion  HTML 5 Artik Cloud Flask/Django Python / Scala Tizen Wearable Cadsoft Eagle(PCB Soft)