Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Manager Developer Brooklyn, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Developer Macy's Systems and Technologies - New York, NY December 2017 to Present Senior Lead .NET Developer for Macys, working as Lead Developer of the ETL processes that are directly related to the daily retail operations maintain MVC .NET internal web site as well legacy Web Applications. Also working on the Xamarin Solution to support the mobile application for the Retail Store Administration. Python Developer Loteka - Santo Domingo February 2015 to May 2017 Develop the visual interface for the gambling game "Mega Decenas Express" that handles the game lottery results every 5 minutes from the gambling results and display them in the terminal in real time. Develop the Server API using a Web Socket and the Client connect to the server was hosted on a Raspberry PI CPU. Senior Manager Developer NEWTECH, S.R.L 2016 to 2017 for Verizon Enterprise Solutions providing analysis, executed and was directly involved in requirement gathering, design, technical specification, training and mentoring, as well as the hands-on leadership of major software development projects throughout the development life cycle, from conceptualization to launch.  Key Achievements:  • Improving the ETLs process to extract and convert the JIRA data to generate statistics.  • Create the ETL process to convert Jenkins regression test into Atlassian Confluence.  • Maintenance the EDGE portal to handle the request for the test environments requests.  Major Contributions:  • Minimized ETLs process time.  • Encouraged and mentored the development team. Analyst Engineer Claro Dominican Republic 2010 to 2015 Provided analysis, executed and was directly involved in requirement gathering, design, technical specification, training and mentoring, as well as the hands-on leadership of major software development projects throughout the development life cycle, from conceptualization to launch. Performed detailed analysis of the current business systems including front-end functionality, backend databases and services, system interfaces, business rules and logic. Provided analysis, design, and implementation of Business Intelligence solutions (Telecommunication applications) for business decision-making.    Key Achievements:  • Build up the cellular denied IMEI system that centralize all the BSS interactions with the stolen and blocked cellphone of the network. Creating database interfaces, web services and SOA Services to interact with the entire BSS denying / allowing all the interaction against the cellphones and replicating the data to the GSMA and the country regulatory Telecommunication Institute to synchronize against all the cellphone carriers.  • Built up the provider's management systems that centralized all the development requirements into a new system the HP ALM, resulting in a 100% increase in planning department's productivity and a 95% increase in final user satisfaction and experience.  • Manage the FIOS interaction project to provide services over the fiver optics to the costumers.    Major Contributions:  • Improve the Portability process to interact with other systems.  • Established policies and procedures to standardize development processes.  • Improvement of the team performance through a Agile and Scrum board tool. MIS Developer ACS XEROX 2009 to 2010 Design and develop and maintain Call Center Quality Software. Managing the workforce department in the Dominican Republic providing call center solutions for T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless.  Key Achievements:  • Improving the call center software to faster acquire the Avaya Calls of the agents to be qualify as soon the agents hang up the calls, improving 50% of the quality process.  • Create the portal to manage the workforce interaction of the agents on the working area.  Major Contributions:  • Improve new method to interact with the Avaya telecommunication system. IT Manager ARS Futuro 2005 to 2008 Manage all the Facility installations, build the IT department and the Call Center to handle the insurance company. Provided analysis, performed requirement gathering, design, technical specification, training and mentoring.    Key Achievements:  • Create the NT Department.  • Create the IT Department.  • Create the Call Center.  • Implement the Heal Insurance Software with the interaction.  • Manage the Development Team for Inhouse Applications. Software Developer AOR Dominicana 2006 to 2007 Software Development Company, outsourcing services. Headed all phases of development life cycle, including requirement gathering, analysis, design, testing, and implementation. Generated technical documentation and reports. Designed and enhanced features for a large-scale service environment using OO principles with a deep focus on performance, scalability, quality and extensibility.    Key Achievements:  • Build the Statistics portal to provide the customers a real graphic representation of their air time on the TV and Radio Media.  Major Contributions:  • Minimized unexpected complications by conducting impact analysis looking into element dependencies.  • Improve the reporting by making data snapshots to avoid time consuming on the visualization of the reports. Junior Software Developer Pymes Dominicanas 2001 to 2004 Maintain and modify the company web portal using PHP and HTML. Education Bachelor in computer systems engineering in Information Technology Universidad Tecnológica de Santiago 1997 Skills life cycle (9 years), mentoring (10+ years), software development (9 years), STRUCTURED SOFTWARE (9 years), training (10+ years) Additional Information Core Competencies  Software development life cycle expert • Project leadership and mentoring • Strategic analysis and planning  Business artifacts documentation • Project scope planner • Use Case writer • Object-oriented programming  Business modeling • Process improvement • Web-based software development • Software design patterns  Agile methodologies (Scrum) • Rational Unified Process (RUP) • Release planning • Acceptance Testing  Change Impact Analysis • field-level requirements • Pseudo logic • Interactive system prototyping  Technical research • End-user documentation • Requirements traceability matrix (RTM)  Technical team building • Technical documentation and training • Troubleshooting and diagnostics  Proficiency in structured query languages • Data integration and transformation (ETL) • Relational databases  Multi-tier architecture • Change management • Collaborative teamwork • Communication • Fast learner  Intellectually curious • Ability to multitask    Technical Expertise  Microsoft.NET • .NET Core • C# • MVC • RESTful API • HTML and CSS • Angular • JavaScript • JQuery • AJAX  Typescript • Entity Framework • NHibernate • JSON • XML • GIT • TFS • Microsoft Team Services • Bootstrap  SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) • SQL Server Analysis Services • SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  RDBMS • SQL Server • MySQL •Microsoft Project • Visio • Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, and PowerPoint) • Jira • Jenkins