Sr. Programmer Analyst - AWS- Python Sr. Programmer Analyst - AWS-<span class="hl">Python</span> Sr. Programmer Analyst - AWS- Python - MaryKay Inc Dallas, TX ? Expertise in AWS technologies - https://github.com/naeemmohd/serverless  ? Architecting AWS solutions using Industry Best Practices based on design standards and pricing policies.  ? Architecting chargeback billing model based on shared and non-share AWS resources  ? MFA architecture using AD connector and third-party MFA service Duo Over Direct Connect  ? Tagging standards of cloud resources   ? Architecting back up strategies using third-party CommVault, CloudWatch, CloudTrail logs  ? Serverless Lambda Functions for log feeds to ElasticSearch, Spark HDFS, SQS alerts  ? Automating AWS resources using CloudFormation templates, policies  ? Deep knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, CloudFormation, , RDS, SQS, SNS, Auto Scaling, ELB, Route 53(DNS)  ? Hands on Knowledge of AWS services like Workspaces, AWS Config, Elastic Cache, DynamoDB  ? Build release management, software configuration, design, development and cloud implementation  ? Designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault tolerant systems using AWS  ? Writing Cloud Formation Templates (CFT) in YAML and JSON format to build the AWS services  ? AWS CLI to control various AWS services through SHELL/BASH scripting  ? Good knowledge in relational as wellas NoSQL databases like MySQL, SQLServer, Oracle, DynamoDB  ? Worked on various operating systems like Linux, RHEL, Ubuntu, Windows, MAC, CentOS  ? Expertise in Python/Serverless technologies – https://github.com/naeemmohd/ python   ? Accomplished projects using Python Flask, Flask-RESTful, Python-JWT, Python-JWT Extended  ? Securing RESTful APIs using SSL certs, Security at rest and(Encryption) and in Transit(HTTPS)  ? Deployment of RESTAPIs on Heroku, AWS, other cloud servers like DigitalOcean  ? Worked with CDN technologies like CloudFlare and CloudFromt  ? Hands on FE technologies like Python DJango, AngularJS  ? Code Review using pylint, piflakes modules  ? Test Driven Development using unittest, doctest modules Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Programmer Analyst - AWS- Python MaryKay Inc - Addison, TX August 2015 to Present ?     Projects:  ?     Product Service–  o     "Product Service" manages products, product price, tags, attribute updates and notifications   o     Implemented using EC2 instances, Serverless lambda functions with DynamoDB backend  o     Lambda functions using Python and NodeJs templates  o     AD based security based on security token and API keys  ?     InTouch EComm Service–  o     Is Heart of the business transaction model  o     List of RESTful APIs exposed using Resources, methods – ManageCosultants,      ManagePromotions API, ManageBonus, ManageCheckout, ManageShipment, ManagePayments  o     Implemented using Python Flask RESTful, JWT, JWT for Token refreshing, PostGres Backend  o     Deployed on AWS EC2 with CloudFront as CDN, CloudWatch for logging,   ?     Log Aggregator –  o     “Log aggregator” feeds CloudWatch, CloudTrail logs to Spark Streaming- Spark SQL cluster  o     Implemented using AWS Log agents, exporting logs to Spark Cluster for search and analytics       and Spark Cluster for log processing  ?     Product Recommendation Service –   o     "Product recommendation service" uses Spark MLLib collaborative filtering algorithm model       ALS(Alternating least squares)  ?     NIFI Feed Tracker Service –   o     "Feed Tracker Service" uses Apache NIFI to stream fire hose tunnels from organization’s social        Twitter, Facebook handles/pages to analyze the customer feedback and sentiments   o     CSVTOJSON and Web Crawler and Twitter templates configured with setting up data       Ingestion and transformation processors to stream data into HDFS to be used by analytic tools like      Jappelin, Tableau etc.  ?     Customer Feedback Tracking Service –   o     " Customer Feedback Tracking Service" uses customer feedbacks (customer clicks, customer      product evaluations, customer page visits, customer satisfaction behavior) to improve existing       products and introduce new products  o     It is a custom module which supplements Google analytics engine to suffice to the custom needs. Sr. Python-AWS Developer/Programmer Analyst EZCORP, Inc. - Austin, TX January 2010 to September 2015 1-    Mobile App – “EZApp” on Appery.io for Android/iOS platforms                                                      01/2015 - 09/2015  The mobile application is developed over Appery.io cloud platform supported by JSON based Python RESTFul API services.  ?     The application is designed for our PAWN customers to look into out PAWN inventory and store locations.  ?     The application targets Android as well as iOS app platforms.  ?     Technologies used: Python RESTFul, Python JWT Extended, JQuery Mobile, Angular JS for Camera Integration, Bootstrap, JSON based WCF services, CSS, HTML5.     2-    Point of Sale(Intranet Loaning Application – Loan Manager) - 01/2010-09/25/2015  ?     Accomplished and lead the team for the complete code migration this application in 2013 from a .NET-SQL Monolith based application to Python-RESTful-SQL based  ?     The intranet based “Point of Sale” application is designed to provide different kinds of loans to cash strived customers though store front.  ?     The application is deployed on 10 EC2 app severs, 3 RESTful API services EC2 servers, 2 file servers load balanced the F5 networks(optimizes the delivery of network-based applications and the security, performance, availability of servers, data storage devices, and other network resources).   ?     Was responsible for development and support for new and existing functionality in mission critical Point of Sale system. Involved in high level design, project estimations, planning project milestones, software deployments using Octopus , code branching, merges using Subversion and Git.  ?     Developed RESTful API services to for data syncing and migration from PeopleSoft Financials, dialer, texting services and banking services.  ?     Developed the Loan Reminders packages using  with texting and mailing vendors features  ?     Developed and designed the framework and the application for Store Acquisition which is used to convert all new stores purchased by EZCORP/EZPAWN and provisioning the Point of Sales Application using YAML and Powershell  ?     Developed SSL/HTTPS Enabled RESFful Service having message as well as transport level security for requesting a packet (by customer), generating mailing label and mailing packets using Barcode Fonts Encoding, receiving items inventory, printing secure checks using MICR Font Encoding,.  ?     Incorporated ACH processing integration and card payment processing Integration   ?     Database development including database schema, stored procedures, triggers, user defined functions, statistics and index.  ?     TDD and Waterfall development processes followed.  ?     Used Python UnitTest, DocTest  for TDD.  ?     Mentored junior developer in the application development.  ?     Technologies used:  Python 2.7/3, Python Flask, Python RESTful, Python JWT, CloudFlare/Akamai CDN, S3 file server, EC2 servers, VPC, NoVPC instances, Third party Wells Fargo bank integration, Payment Gateway Integration Sr. Developer Analyst CALPINE CORP - Houston, TX August 2008 to December 2009 Projects Completed: Plant Characteristics System, Infrastructure Management System 08/2008 - 12/2009  ? Developed Plant Characteristics System that is used for budgeting purposes of Calpine's fleet of 79 power plants. Responsible to gather requirements and implement the necessary UI and database query and stored procedure changes. This application saves at least $120K annually.  ? Developed Infrastructure Management System is central repository of all Calpine IS assets and stores the complex relationships between hardware, network and software components. It provides multiple reports to IS management and is extensively used for disaster recover planning and execution and also for managing the out-sourcing activities at Calpine. This application saves at least $150K.  ? Built and maintained Excel macro based applications that are extensively used by the Risk Management and trading departments to mark forward curves. Reduced run rate of project $98,000 per month ($1.1M annually).  ? Used Agile / TDD development process.  ? Extensively used Infragistics third party controls like UltrawebGrid, UltraWinGrid, DateTimeChooser, WebMenu, ExcelExporter.  ? Used LINQ2SQL, LINQ queries and Lambda Expressions for retrieval of data from objects and object collections.  ? Did client side validations using JQuery and JSON.  ? Wrote WCF services to retrieve data from other applications and expose functionality of Field Quoting to other applications following WS specifications.  ? Built a framework for web scrape applications to get settlement data (in HTML, CSV, MS Excel etc. formats) from different external sources (Bentek Energy, CAISO, NYMEX, ICE, Genscape, ERCOT, NEISO, BLS etc ) and update a LIM DB using VBA/Macros. Reduced run rate of project $80,000 per month ($960K annually).  ? Developed Project Task Manager using SharePoint (MOSS) and created site collections, site columns, site templates, lists, issue tracker and calendar.  Environment: C#, ASP.Net 3.5, VS.Net 2008, ADO.NET, Oracle 9.2, XML Web Services, Win Forms, IIS 6.0, Merant Version Manager (PVCS), Infragistics, MOSS, WCF, Enterprise Library Sr. Developer Analyst IBIBO, India - IN November 2006 to May 2008 Project Completed: Opinions.ibibo.com, local.ibibo.com  • Developed portals Opinions.ibibo.com and locals.ibibo.com. The portals are used for searching a product on ibibo domain and posting local opinions, posting review about opinions, rating opinions and adding new products.  • Involved in implementing the business layer, presentation tier, database design, stored procedures, schedulers and user defined functions.  Environment: C#, ADO.Net, VS.Net 2003, SQL Server 2000, ASP.Net 1.1, Web Services, SQL Profiler, IIS 5.0,  Windows Server XP, VSS Sr. Programmer Analyst KAISER PERMANENTE November 2005 to November 2006 Developed e-Healthcare application which is used to manage online appointments, upload/download medical  history/articles and access drug information.  ? TCS/UDP Hole punching technology was used to create a peer to peer messenger application.  ? Developed P2P audio-video conferencing messenger like AOL/Live Messenger for panel of doctors to discuss medical cases. It also supports white board and chat facility.  ? Designed SSIS Packages to transfer data between servers, load data into database, archive data file from different DBMSs.  ? Created stored procedures using concepts like common table expressions and pivot command.  ? Used Ajax to increase the responsiveness for the user.  Environment: C#, ASP.Net, VS.Net 2003, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2000, XML Web Services, Socket Programming,  .NET Remoting, Win Forms, IIS 6.0, VSS, Visio (UML), SSRS, Ajax, Windows 2003 Developer Vedam InfoTech - IN December 2004 to November 2005 Developed I-Track that is used as an MIS Report application which tracks the different stages of the loan process.  ? Developed I-Service is a customer support application for lodging/ forwarding/ reverting/ resolving complaints and monitoring by auditing personnel.  ? Developed I-Audit that is is used to audit the performance of DSAs based on the customer feedback data collected by audit Officers on random sample basis. Its then uses a marking scheme to rate the DSAs.  Environment: C#, ADO.Net, VS.Net 2003, SQL Server 2000, ASP.Net 1.1, Web Services, SQL Profiler, IIS 5.0,  Windows Server XP, VSS Developer (project) Multiples Zones, India - IN August 2002 to December 2004 PerformedRequirement analysis,Object Oriented analysis and Object Design of the application using RUP approach.  ? Involved in interaction with clients and end users for creating specifications.  ? Used Visio for developing various UML artifacts like use cases, class diagrams and collaboration diagrams.  ? Responsible for both client side and server side programming of the application.  ? Developed various Entity Relationship Diagrams using Erwin.  ? Developed various COM+ components for Common Logging Framework.  ? Designed HTML pages using Dreamweaver.  ? Developed pages of the application using ASP.NET web forms and C#.  ? Used .NET Framework class library throughout the application for developing web forms to XML Web Services.  ? Developed various graphs of the application using Crystal Reports.  ? Responsible for writing stored procedures and creating tables, views.  Environment: C#, ADO.Net, VS.Net 2003, SQL Server 2000, ASP.Net, SQL Profiler, Windows Server XP, VSS Education Masters in COMPUTER SCIENCE MD University 2004 Bachelors in Banking Rewa University - Rewa, Madhya Pradesh 1993 Skills SQL (10+ years), AWS Services - VPC, EC2, S3, SQS, SNS, Serverless, Lambda, RabbitMQ Auto Scaling, Elastic Load balancer(ELB), Route 53, Gateways (5 years), MFA (5 years), AD Connector (5 years), Third-party MFA tool Duo (5 years), CloudFormation/OpsWork Automation (5 years), Design and Architecture Considerations (5 years), Back up strategies using CloudWatch and Third-party service CommVault (5 years), AWS best practices and Pricing Strategies, Tagging Standard, Architecting messaging (Publisher - Subscriber) based decoupled solutions (5 years), Apache Spark Streaming (5 years), Python – Scripting, OOPS, Mapping, Reducing (5 years), Linux – crontabs, users & permissions (5 years), Serverless, Lambda (5 years), Hands on database technologies – Cassandra, DynamoDB, HBase (5 years), Apache Sqoop, Apache Zeppelin (5 years), Agile, Scrum (10+ years), NET, WCF, Linq, WPF, MVC, Json, Javascript, Python (5 years), Python-Flask (5 years), Python-RESTful (5 years), Python-JWT (5 years), Python pylinit (5 years), Python unittest (5 years) Links http://mohdnaeem.wordpress.com https://github.com/naeemmohd https://hub.docker.com/u/mnaeemsiddiqui https://www.linkedin.com/in/naeemmohd Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Developer - Associate (DVA) April 2017 to April 2019 AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate (SAA) March 2017 to March 2019 AWS Certified SysOps Administrator - Associate (SOA) November 2017 to November 2019 Sitecore Certied .Net Developer November 2010 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS     Years Exp.  Skill / Experience  Years Exp.  Skill / Experience  AWS(Amazon Web Services Development)  5  MFA architecture, AD Connector, Third-party MFA tool Duo  5  AWS Services VPC, EC2, S3, SQS, SNS services, Serverless, Lambda, RabbitMQ Auto Scaling, Elastic Load balancer(ELB), Route 53, Gateways  5  Automation of resources using CloudFormation/OpsWork  5  Back up strategies using CloudWatch and Third-party service CommVault   5  Design and Architecture Considerations  5  AWS Best practices and Pricing Strategies, Tagging Standard, Architecting messaging (Publisher - Subscriber) based decoupled solutions     Python, RESTAPIs, Serverless and Lambda Technologies  5  Python 3.5, Python Flask  5  Python RESTful secure API  5  Python JWT and JWT Extended, security at rest and transit  5  Serverless APIs using AWS S3, API Gateway, Lambda Functions, CloudFront, CloudWatch, Canary, Step Functions and DynamoDB   5  Deployment to Heroku, AWS , Digital Ocean and CDN service like CloudFlare and CloudFront  5  Linux – crontabs, users & permissions, Vi and Nano editors, worked on RHEL, CentOS, Ubuntu OSs     Big Data and AWS Technologies  3  Apache Spark Streaming  3  Data Cleansing, Mapping, Reducing  3  Apache Sqoop, Apache Zeppelin  3  Hands on database technologies – Cassandra, DynamoDB, HBase     Lead Role & Responsibility  7  Project/Sprint Estimations  7  Blue-Green AB CICD deployments  7  Load and Stress testing on LTE servers  7  Code reviews, QA Support, Release Mgmt.(Octopus)  7  Creating repository branches/merging using Git, TFS  7  Project Deployment using Octopus/Jenkins Automated tool, team mentoring, SDLC related documentation     .Net Technologies  15  C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net, SQL, SSIS/SSRS  10  MVC 4.6/4.5/4.0, VB script / JavaScript/ Agile, Scrum  5  AngularJS, JQuery,  5  PowerShell, YML, Web API/WCF, Socket programming  7  MySQL, SQLServer, Oracle, DynamoDB  5  Visual Basic/ Classic ASP/ASP/ ActiveX