Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Washington, DC Mid level python/django developer looking to work on interesting projects. Work Experience Python Developer CyberSponse - Arlington, VA February 2018 to May 2018 Supporting a software product that aggregates data from other cybersecurity tools such as Splunk, ArcSight, etc. and organizes the information, gives decision support. Mostly  set up interfaces with other systems and configure our system's 'playbooks.' Python Developer BBOXX Ltd - London July 2016 to February 2018 Working on the business software for a company selling solar panels in Africa. Much of the work I did was involved in converting the monthly payment system to a pay-as-you-go  system via mobile money. Business software was built through customization of Odoo  (an opensource ERP). Python Developer (Graduate Student) University of Wisconsin - Madison, WI August 2013 to June 2015 August 2013 - June 2015    Collected disparate sources of data for clinical researchers at UW Madison (using python  scripts) and moved that data into a centralized MySQL database that would serve as the data source for a data collection system I built for them in Django. Technical Analyst Epic Systems - Madison, WI June 2011 to June 2012 Helped troubleshoot technical issues, install software and do some development for healthcare IT company.    Languages  Russian: Conversational Education MS in Nuclear Engineering University of Wisconsin - Madison, WI May 2015 BS in Mechanical Engineering Virginia Tech - Blacksburg, VA May 2011 Skills PYTHON (3 years), COLLECTION (1 year), DATABASE (1 year), DJANGO (1 year), MYSQL (1 year) Additional Information Technologies  Unix OS: Linux, Mac terminal    Python: A lot of experience using libraries for web dev (Django, Flask, bottle), base  libraries (mostly for web dev, testing and data manipulation/collection), other libraries  for data (pywiki, BeautifulSoup, pandas) and Scipy/numpy/matplotlib suite from  school and occasional spells of boredom. Odoo (open-source business software)    Database: postgresql, MySQL    Other: git, AWS, Heroku, some knowledge of networking and security, a little  javascript