Full Stack .NET Developer Full Stack .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack .NET Developer Miramar, FL Software Developer Engineer with 10+ years of experience in the world of web development. Solid understanding of Object Oriented Programming, Database and Software Design Patterns. Experienced in various software development methodologies. With active involvement in many phases of the Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) with projects of different structures and sizes. Team player with excellent troubleshooting response and great aptitude to any kind of progressive solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack .NET Developer Miami Heat Group - Miami, FL December 2017 to Present Azure DevOps Engineer focused on CI/CD, formerly known as VSTS  • Improve high-performing teams practice by implementing CI/CD with VSTS  • Deliver more value by doing more frequent deployments of a higher quality  • Automate builds, testing and deployment with VSTS  • Deliver value faster to customers with a CI/CD pipeline   • Set up releases with built-in tasks for Azure and Azure Stack  • Increase confidence in promoting releases by using approval workflows  • Achieve end-to-end traceability by tracking releases and deployments  • Orchestrate multi-environment pipelines    Microsoft Dynamics 365 Integration Developer   • Host artifacts and integrates with Plug-ins, .NET programming model and Workflow Activities   • Develop solutions by using client-side programming (JavaScript and HTML) object model   • Customize UI site-map, ribbon customizations and embedded iframe Web-App solutions  • Implement late-bound and early-bound concepts for D365 and Web-API endpoints  • Create package and distribute extensions    Microsoft .NET Enterprise Solutions Developer  • Build RESTful API services be using ASP.NET Core  • Build loosely-coupled and highly-cohesive components by using Ninject as DI container  • Build complex Azure Web Apps cloud hosted on VSTS Git source control systems  • Use state management mechanism like in-process, out of process, and Redis-based state management  • Take advantage of Inversion of Control (IoC), as it is fundamental to allow proper testing  • Enable Test-Driven Development (TDD) Unit Testing by using xUnit.net, MSTest and Moq to replace dependencies with mocks  • Build Domain-Driven Design (DDD)-based or simply well-factored, SOLID applications using .NET Core  • Use loosely-coupled and dependency-inverted architecture like "Clean Architecture" or "Onion architecture"  • Maintain legacy On-premises applications using WCF, MSMQ, SSIS, SSRS and IIS  • Use Microsoft Flows and PowerApps to span productivity and business data Full Stack Web Developer Waltham Technologies - Miami, FL August 2016 to November 2017 • Develop and design solutions using ASP.NET MVC 4/5/Core, Web API, Entity Framework 6.x, SQL Server 2014/2016, MongoDB, jQuery/UI, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 and Visual Studio 2015/2017 .  • Develop DotNetNuke(DNN) CMS applications: create custom modules with database integration, design DNN Skins & Containers, Mobile (Responsive Layout) Skins for portal templates, and convert Photoshop PSD to Skin.  • Administer Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) and Amazon Web Services (AWS) severs using Windows Server environments.  • Install, configure and maintain Internet Information Server (IIS) on multiple Windows Servers hosted on cloud computing platforms.  • Manage multiple GoDaddy accounts used for Domains, Web Hosting, DNS, SSL Certificates, Online Storage and Emails Accounts.  • Increase email marketing ROI (Return on Investment) by administering and developing custom integration with Email Marketing Platforms like ExpertSender, GetResponse, Listrak, GreenArrow, etc.   • Develop software and websites by using project management tools and project version control applications. .NET Web Developer GBS International, Inc. - Miami, FL December 2013 to August 2016 • Develop, test and maintain ASP.NET applications for multinational companies in the industry of timeshare, vacation ownership, travel and leisure.  • Integrate business applications with third party RESTful API and WCF Services.  • Program and administer databases using SQL Server, LINQ and Transact-SQL.  • Design websites utilizing HTML5, CC3, jQuery and ASP Master Pages.  • Create software using C#, ASP.NET Web Forms (MVP pattern), and MVC architecture.  • Develop customized Content Management Systems for client-specific web applications.  • Build responsive websites using Bootstrap and Media Query techniques.  • Improve client websites by implementing SEO strategies and techniques.  • Plan and implement globalization and localization strategies for client websites.   • Develop e-commerce website modules with auto billing and shopping cart functionalities.  • Create and design bulk email campaigns, automatic email distributions and newsletters for clients. Software Developer Freelancer - Miami, FL 2012 to October 2013 • Developed ASP.NET web-based applications for small businesses in the Marketing, Retail, and Transportation industries.  • Programmed databases and developed backup strategies for SQL Server. Python/Django Web Developer DESOFT SA - Santa Clara, CA 2009 to 2012 • Developed customized software for multinational technology companies using Customer Relationship Management Systems (SugarCRM), ExtJS JavaScript framework, PHP, MS SQL Server and Eclipse PDT.  • Developed web inventory management software for universities using Django, Python, Eclipse, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and Ubuntu OS.  • Led a team of developers on the design and implementation of web patents management system for intellectual property organizations using Django, Eclipse with PyDev, Mod_ python, jQuery, Subversion with RapidSVN and Ubuntu OS. Software Developer Intern University of Informatic Sciences - Havana, IL 2006 to June 2009 • Migrated enterprise software to open source applications as a member of the Cuban National Group for the Free Software Transfer.  • Executed and evaluated software through manual and automated test cases and report test results.  • Developed record management software for the General Archive of the Nation using PHP, Codeigniter Framework, PostgreSQL, and JavaScript.  • Developed web based software for virtual sharing of resources for the National Department of Informatics. Received award at the 13th Informatics International Convention and Fair. Tools and technologies used: PHP, CMS Drupal, PostgreSQL, jQuery, and Zend Studio IDE. Education Bachelor of Science in IT University of Informatic Sciences .NET Technology. Postgraduate University "Martha Abreu" Computational Biology. Master courses University "Martha Abreu" Skills .NET (10+ years), C# (10+ years), Asp.Net (10+ years), Visual Studio (7 years), MS SQLServer (4 years), HTML (9 years), HTML 5 (2 years), JQuery (5 years), Javascript (5 years), Bootstrap (1 year), CSS (9 years), CSS3 (2 years), Wcf (2 years), MVC architecture (7 years), OOP (10+ years), ASP.NET MVP architecture (5 years), DotNetNuke DNN (3 years), DevOps (2 years), CI/CD. Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (3 years), Microsoft Azure (3 years)