Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Jersey City, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Bank of America Merrill Lynch - New York, NY April 2017 to Present * Full stack python developer building valuation control reporting tools and batch jobs using the proprietary Python-based Quartz platform, Sandra object database, and SQL Server.   * Working in an Agile team to continuously enhance the reporting application.  * Writing code that is objected-oriented, modular, peer-reviewed and well tested with proper mocking and high unit test coverage.  * Interfacing with the project coordinator and business users daily to gather and verify requirements and assure user satisfaction. Production Support Engineer RIMES Technologies - New York, NY July 2015 to February 2017 *Successfully built and refined core infrastructure of the firm   in Python and Perl as part of a global technology team  Worked on the business logic and database layers   *Projects included asynchronous files delivery, files replication across servers, and simulations to benchmark performance of off-the-shelf replication solutions  *Worked on the report engine, delivery, notifications, and ticket systems  *Used best practices to ensure quality, maintainability and extensibility - Agile methodology for incremental change, decoupled modular code, objected-oriented design, regular peer reviews, unit tests, and functional tests Application Developer Bank of New York Mellon - New York, NY September 2008 to June 2014 * Managed and executed successfully dozens of database solutions that have generated   up to $400k a year in cost savings a year.    * Developed SQL Server-backed Access applications to automate operations processes   across multiple lines of business, both domestic and international.    * Automated data extraction and integration from web-based systems (including processing   direct HTTP requests to server), databases, mainframe and Excel. Application Developer JPMorgan Chase - New York, NY January 2007 to September 2008 Built database applications to automate trade processing in mainframe and Windows. Financial Analyst Holding Capital Group - New York, NY January 2006 to September 2006 Analyzed stocks of industries in the energy industry. Education MS in Computer Science New York University - New York, NY 2013 to 2015 BS in Finance New York University, Leonard N. Stern School of Business - New York, NY 2005 Additional Information Programming Languages: Python, C#, C++, Java, Linux bash shell  Web development: ASP .NET MVC, Entity Framework, Azure, HTML, CSS  Database technologies: SQL/TSQL, SQL-Server  Mathematical skills:: Linear algebra, stochastic calculus, formal logic, machine learning