Software Engineer, Mobile Developer Software Engineer, Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer, Mobile Developer - Indeed Austin, TX Veteran developer and team leader, strong sense of OO design.. Fluent in Swift, Python,  C/C++, and Java. Extensive experience with iOS and Android, and various web  technologies and platforms. Strong believer in the benefits of fast incremental development  and unit testing. Enjoys mentoring and helping other developers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer, Mobile Developer Indeed 2014 to Present Designed, coded and launched iOS Resume Search, native iOS app to help employers  search for resumes. This app was written in Swift, with the code since becoming the foundation for other Indeed iOS apps. Built and launched the native iOS/Android Indeed  Employer apps. Re-architected the primary Indeed JobSearch iOS app. Modernized the primary Indeed JobSearch Android app, adding new tabbed functionality as an A/B test. Also,  have worked on the java Spring backend as well as numerous Django projects. Python Lead Pearson Education, iOS 2013 to 2013 Released new versions of the " Pearson iLit " iOS Student and Teacher iPad apps, Also,  updated the core OS X app running in the classrooms, and fixed several python related  issues. Responsibilities were end-to-end - from the iPad apps running in classrooms, Mac  Mini ' s serving as hubs in the classrooms, and Cloudant hosting 1000 ' s of CouchDB  databases. iOS Architect MutualMobile, Austin 2012 to 2012 Technology lead on the Pearson iLit project (iPad based). Complex project that involved 20+  iPads in the classroom, with a Mac Mini as the communication/project hub, and cloud servers as the backend. Re-worked the communication layer for greater platform stability.  • Implemented data security for student data and other security related information.  • Worked extensively with the client in sorting through various performance issues,  including cloud synching throughput, app start up time, and reliability of student app to teacher app cross communication.  • Worked with the client on a CMS publishing strategy that would allow them to publish  updated/new curriculum data, and downstream this data to each classroom iPad while the system was live.  Also, while at MutualMobile, was on The Economist pursuit team. Built an iOS demo app in 4  days that conveyed our improvements to their data visualization portion of the app. Travelled to NYC for the pitch, and out of 11 companies, we won the contract. Lead iOS Developer TheMeeter, LLC 2010 to 2012 Well funded startup, focused on matching people with similar interests based on geo-location.  App has built-in VoIP and IM communications, as well as real-time GPS tracking layered on top of MapKit. Responsible for the following implementations:  • CoreData - app makes heavy use of local object caching  • MapKit - custom annotations/layers on top of MapKit    Eric Hammond - Resume 2014  -1-2  • UIKit - responsible for 90% of the UI code - all panels/screens use custom artwork  • CoreLocation  • Network layers Developer/Architect Kinbot (Startup) 2008 to 2011 Designed real-time group collaboration web-based platform (what Slack became)  • System was first designed in Python using Google ' s AppEngine  • Due to high volume/low latency needs, moved to C++ on top of Apache Runtime  • Client-side written purely in javascript  • Each communication thread is permanently stored on the server. Software Developer RightNow Technologies 2006 to 2008 Designed and implemented an ultra high-speed XML/HTML transformation engine written in  C++  • Replaced libXML/libXSLT libraries yielding 2400% increase in performance  • Modular design heavily based on design patterns  • Easily extensible to add new markup tags/features  • Long term maintenance costs significantly reduced over libXLST  • UNICODE compliant, multi-language support Game Developer, Game Exec 1982 to 2006 Highlights  ? 1983: wrote EA Sports first sports video game, "Dr J and Larry Bird go One on One",  Apple ][ days.  ? 1996-1999: was VP of Product Development at Sega. Helped design Dreamcast  hardware, OS, and development tools. Led the US development of the 11 launch  titles. (Japan and Europe failed their launches, US launch was best in history, at that  time. With only 1 out of 3 territories successful, they pulled out of hardware  business).    Languages  Fluent in: Swift, Python, Java, Objective-C, C/C+, Javascript, Assembly Skills IOS (8 years), ANDROID (4 years), DJANGO (4 years), XML (2 years), APACHE COUCHDB (1 year) Additional Information Technologies  Seasoned with Linux  Strong iOS, Android experience  All XML technologies, XSLT, XPATH, etc  OpenGL  SQL / MySQL / CouchDB  Network Programming / REST / SOAP / RPC / Sockets  Embedded systems, RTOS ' s    Web Platforms/Libraries  LAMP, EJB3 / Servlets / JSP, Django, AppEngine, FastCGI, JQuery