Data Analyst Intern Data Analyst Intern Data Analytics | Business Intelligence enthusiast | Actively Seeking full-time opportunities from June 2019 Chicago, IL Data Analyst with 1+ years of experience interpreting and analyzing data in order to drive successful business solutions. Proficient knowledge in statistics, mathematics, business intelligence, and data analytics. Excellent understanding of business operations and analytics tools for effective analyses of data. I have recently completed my master's degree in Information Technology and Management with specialization in Data Management from Illinois Institute of Technology, USA. I have completed my Bachelor's degree in Computer Science Engineering from VIT University, India.    GITHUB REPOSITORY: https://github.com/yashjshah    SUMMARY OF EXPERIENCE:  • Developed MIS for smart mobility business.   • Hands on experience in creating visual and analytical dashboards using Tableau.   • Good understanding of RDBMS.  • Designed and developed Data Reconciliation and Management Systems for critical business strategy   • Developed VBA macros and assisted the financial department at Ford Smart Mobility for financial reconciliation.  • Worked in designing and creating various analytical reports and dashboards to identify critical KPIs and facilitate critical and strategic planning in the organization.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Programming and Scripting Languages: C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, Java, Android, R, Python, Excel, VBA  • Databases: MySQL, Oracle 12c, MongoDB, Microsoft SQL Server  • Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, Wordpress, Drupal, AJAX, NodeJS, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP  • BI and Visualization Tools: Pentaho Kettle, Tableau, Power BI, QlikView, Alteryx  • Python Libraries: NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Scikit-Learn, Keras, NLTK, Pandas    Actively seeking full-time opportunities in the field of data analytics, Business Intelligence, and data engineering. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Analyst Intern Ford Motors - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2018 to August 2018 - Developed MIS for Mobility business  - Assisted the operations team for metadata optimization  - Designed and developed Data Reconciliation and Management System for critical business strategy  - Designed and developed SQL scripts to automate and generate reports on a daily, weekly and monthly basis   - Used Microsoft Power BI for data reporting and visualization  - Developed VBA macros for financial reconciliation  - Assisted in the ERP system development  - Analysis of trends on Urban Mobility  - Research work on competition Python Developer HyperVerge, Inc. - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2016 to February 2017 - Developed scalable and efficient python scripts for the production teams.  - Applied the principles and techniques of object-oriented programming and agile methodologies.  - Designed and developed web applications to enhance the currently running application's performance.  - Worked with Python to manipulate and prepare data for data loading, extraction and analysis using various python libraries like SciPy, NumPy, Pandas.   - Used Tableau for data reporting and visualization.   - Used ETL Pentaho tool for Data Integration and Data Warehouse Management. Web Developer Intern Minveli Software Solutions - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2016 to July 2016 - Implemented auto retrieval of data attributes for videos  - Designed and developed Javascript based module applications that involve small kids to think creatively to solve challenges.  - Developed front end UI design using HTML5, CSS, AJAX, Javascript, jQuery.  Used AJAX to get data from the server asynchronously and for developing asynchronous web applications  - Used Tableau for data reporting and visualization.  - Used R software for data analysis. Web Developer Siam Computing - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2015 to July 2015 - Developed front-end UI components using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, NodeJs.   - Implemented server-side scripting using PHP and Database using MYSQL.   - Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects and page layouts.  - Performed client side validations using Javascript.  - Generated dynamic web pages and content using PHP and JSP.  - Used AJAX for developing asynchronous web-based applications.  - Collaborate with other internal teams to fix bugs and improve the software. Education Master's in Information Technology and Management in Information Technology Management Data Management, Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor of Technology in Computing Science Engineering VIT University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2013 to May 2017 Skills Android (2 years), BI (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), Business Intelligence (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), ETL, Excel, Data Analysis, Java (2 years), Javascript (2 years), SQL (2 years), Python (1 year), R (2 years), PHP (3 years), JQuery (3 years), Tableau (1 year), Data Warehouse, VBA, Macro, Pivot Table, Drupal (Less than 1 year) Links https://github.com/yashjshah https://www.linkedin.com/in/yash-jitendar-shah/ Certifications/Licenses Google Cloud Platform Fundamentals for AWS Professionals August 2017 to Present