PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER - ADVANCE LOCAL Oak Ridge, NJ I'm an agile-ready full-stack developer specializing in Python and AWS services. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER ADVANCE LOCAL - Jersey City, NJ December 2012 to Present • Worked on large-scale, high-traffic Python web applications to define and implement new features, enhance core functionality, and integrate with other platforms and services.  • Develop for several microservices as part of a search ecosystem  • RESTful API creation and consumption  • Write and maintain unit, integration, and smoke tests  • Load testing and code optimization  • Serverless architecture  • Build and deploy automation  • Author and maintain technical documentation  • Agile ceremonies and team presentations Sr Database Administrator / Web Developer THE GREAT ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC TEA COMPANY - Montvale, NJ June 2005 to December 2012 • Support business initiatives concentrating on host-based store and various back office applications.  • Provided 24x7 support for several host production, QA, and development OLTP databases as well as hundreds of off-site store databases.  • Database backups and point-in-time recovery using both disk and TSM tape library backups  • Oracle and DB2 High-availability using IBM HACMP  • Maintained off-site disaster recovery procedures  • Database performance monitoring  • Data import/export  • Creation of new database objects  • Installation, configuring, upgrading, migrating, and patching of DB2, Oracle, and SQL Server.  • Ad-hoc reporting.  • Gathering explain plans for performance evaluation.  • Configuring MySQL replication to support hot backups and support master-writes and multi-reads.    • Created and maintain several in-house ASP web applications.  ? Access/Account Request - tracks user access and requests for corporate systems. Includes custom approval paths, email notifications, ad-hoc reporting, and interfaces with ticketing application.  ? Service Request application - tracks code change requests and enhancements to back office systems. Includes custom approval paths and ad-hoc reporting.  ? Treasury Claim Tracking application.  • Created and maintain several in-house Django web applications  ? LDAP Authentication module for all Django projects  ? Excel and PDF report generation  ? Candidate tracking application system  ? Contract Tracking and Budgeting Application System HELP DESK/PC SUPPORT LEAD THE GREAT ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC TEA COMPANY May 2001 to June 2005 • Level 1 and 2 support for Windows, UNIX, and mainframe environments for several corporate and satellite offices.  • Domain, CICS, TSO, and application security.  • Developed and implemented help desk intranet that aggregates data from multiple help desk applications for quick and easy visibility in one place.  • Virus, spy-ware, ad-ware removal on Windows PCs. Education B.A. in Music Studies William Paterson University - Wayne, NJ 2001 Skills python (8 years), php (5 years), django (8 years), bash (10+ years), ansible (4 years), docker (1 year), datadog (4 years), aws (6 years), javascript (10+ years), css (10+ years), nodejs (Less than 1 year), bootstrap (7 years), jquery (7 years), html (10+ years), git (8 years) Additional Information • 17 years overall IT experience  • 5 years small Agile team experience  • Excellence in Python coding and best practices  • Strong source control with Git  • Extensive experience working with shell scripting, web programming languages, and ORM frameworks.  • Strong analytical skills accompanied by good oral and verbal communication and interpersonal skills.    TECHNOLOGY PROFICIENCY  • Languages: Python, PHP, ASP, VB, VBScript, HTML, Javascript, CSS, SQL, HTML5, XML, (JSON, YAML)  • Linux/Unix command line and shell scripting  • Web Frameworks: Django, Flask  • AWS: EC2, VPC, RDS, IAM, Cloud Formation, Lambda, S3, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, ElastiCache, CloudWatch, Elasticsearch, APIGW, aws-cli,  • MacOS, Ubuntu, CentOS, Amazon Linux  • Atlassian Suite: JIRA, Confluence, Bamboo, Stash/BitBucket Server  • Orchestration: Ansible, Puppet  • Virtualization: Virtualbox, Docker  • Load Testing: Tsung, LocustIO  • Application Logging and Monitoring: Datadog, Loggly, Hosted Graphite, PackageCloud.io  • Databases: DB2 v8/9, Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL 5, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008