Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer New York, NY September 2016 to Present Main responsibilities  Developed programs to download web pages, extract main content from the web pages, and classify the content of the web pages into categories using:  • Python programming language  • Python Machine learning library Scikit Learn, Natural Language Processing (NPL), Numpy, Scipy, Selenium, Beautiful Soup, unittest, Flask, etc  • Database MongoDB  • Javascript, jQuery, HTML/DOM, and CSS  Achievements  • Successfully built a system to recognize and extract the main content of a web page using unsupervised machine learning.  • Collected data and applied machine learning to classify documents North East Accountant SAGE Business Accounting - Newcastle upon Tyne, UK August 2009 to August 2014 Main responsibilities:  • Self-run business which provided IT solutions for accounting and bookkeeping services. Using SAGE ERP, MS Excel.  Achievements:  • Helped customers to transfer their business data, account balances, and transactions from excel or paper based records to SAGE Business Accounting.  • Successfully cleanse data and convert data between different accounting software for businesses. Software consultant TCI Services Ltd - Newcastle upon Tyne, UK April 2007 to July 2009 Main responsibilities  Developed Management of Fabric Maintenance application used to calculate budget and manage materials for companies in Oil and Gas industry such as BP, Shell, etc Using technologies  • Microsoft C# .NET  • MS SQL database  • Crystal Reports  Achievements  • Successful replaced old system used MS Access. The new system runs on client/server model so that can support multiple users accessing the system and increased performance to 20%  • Implemented complex model which generates MS SQL queries from thousands of options and scenarios ICT Technician St Cuthbert's High School - Newcastle upon Tyne, UK October 2006 to March 2007 Main responsibilities  Installed and managed computer system at St Cuthbert's High School (UK) with:  • DNS, DHCP, Mail Server,  • Servers running MS Windows and Windows Server NT.  • Printer servers  • Routers, hubs, etc  Achievements  • Successfully planned, configured and installed a new system with more than 200 computers and devices which replaced the old computers, printers, and servers smoothly without any incident  • Put on new security measure Project Manager Cicat Ltd - Hanoi, VN August 1999 to September 2002 Main responsibilities  Designed business systems for clients from diverse industries, including government departments and organizations. Customized and deployed solutions using:  • Operating systems MS Windows Server, Unix/Linux  • Informix and MS SQL Server database server  • Programming language MS C# .NET  Achievements  Designed and developed Document Management system which manages, tracks, searches and stores digital documents for Ministry of Planning and Investment, People's Committee of Hai Phong, and UNDP and World Bank projects. The application efficiently helped customers to:  • Store documents in multiple formats such as pdf, excel, word, etc  • Use full text search capability so that clients find documents in many formats  • Manage documents work-flow Technical Consultant HANEL Ltd October 1997 to July 1999 Main responsibilities  Provide IT solutions to clients using wide range of technologies such as:  • Servers using IBM, Compact, and HP computers and servers  • CISCO Networking  • Operating Systems using Windows Server or Unix/Linux  • Database MS SQL database servers.  Achievements  • Obtain clients' satisfaction by providing high quality customized solutions for a number of clients.  • Successful in helping client to manage their businesses efficiently, increase performance, and expand their business. Software Developer State Bank of Vietnam - VN July 1992 to September 1997 Main responsibilities  Developed bespoke banking and accounting software applications for State Bank of Vietnam and its branches using:  • C and Foxpro programming languages.  • Unix/Linux shell programming language  • MS SQL and Oracle Databases  • MS Windows, and Unix/Linux Operating systems  Achievements  • Contributed as a key team member to the successful development and implementation of the Banking Accounting application for State Bank of Vietnam and its branches. Education Master of Science in Software Engineering University of Sunderland June 2005 Bachelor of Science in Applied Information Technology Vietnam National University June 1992 Skills Python (3 years), Javascript (4 years), PHP (4 years), Linux (5 years), MySQL (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Msc Software Engineering Present MSc Software Engineering at University of Sunderland, UK Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Python and its libraries such as numpy, scipy, scikit learn, Beautiful soup, unittest.  ? HTML/DOM, javascript, jquery  ? MongoDB, MySQL, MS SQL databases  ? HTML5, XHMT, XML, and CSS, Javascripts  ? Object Oriented Programming, Test Driven Development TDD, Extreme Programming  ? Patterns such as MVC, Visitor, Command, etc in development.  ? MS Windows and Unix/Linux Red hat, Ubuntu  ? Networking TCP/IP, DHCP, router, firewall, etc