Sr. Python / PHP / Flask Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> / PHP / Flask <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python / PHP / Flask Developer - Acotel Interactive Dallas, TX • Over 13 years of software development, recently working with Java mastered PHP and Python developments.  • 5 years of experience using python in different kind of applications development (Research, Web, stand alone, scripting and desktop).  • 6 years experience with web programming with a variety of frameworks and languages (JavaScript, PHP, html, html5, CSS, jQuery).  • Extensive experience in developing enterprise web applications using Python, PHP4 and PHP5, Flask, Jinja2, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, MySQL.  • Very strong knowledge and experience in developing the front end as well as back end support applications and architecting new systems from scratch.  • Experience with FlaskAlchemy, FlaskSecurity and FlaskAdmin and Blueprints to create robust web applications.  • Resful web services implementation with CherryPy.  • Strong knowledge on Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Concepts using Java, Python and C#  • Experience with Content Management System (CMS) Tools such as Drupal and Joomla.  • Experience in building PHP websites and applications using Silex microframework, as well as Knowledge on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Back end development for monitoring billing transactions for mobile messaging services with Python.  • Developing and adapting games in Android for one of the principal mobile phone carriers in Mexico. Technologies used Cocoa2D, Java and Eclipse as IDE.  • Knowledge on Mobile UI using Android SDK, games applications implemented to be used as preinstalled applications in mobile phones for Samsung devices.  • Experienced working with SQLite for android mobile applications.  • API back end implementation for mobile apps with Python and PHP.  • Experienced in Responsive Web Design technology with frameworks like Bootstrap.  • Restful web services implementation for different scenarios. Consuming and publishing.  • Team work, coordination of personnel involved in several projects at time, and usage of developing methodologies (SCRUM). Currently certified as Scrum Master. Fast learning and adaptation to existent environments of work, goals, tasks, and milestones  • Integration of RabbitMQ for managing billing notifications.  • Problem solving and algorithm analysis.  • Self continues improvement and innovation, great communications skills, project management experience and team leadership.  • Application architecture designing.  • Other programming languages and technologies (Java, C#, Ruby) Work Experience Sr. Python / PHP / Flask Developer Acotel Interactive February 2013 to Present Project Description: Develop complete architecture for messaging services with different carriers around the world, all the backend was developed in Python, PHP and MYSQL as database, always seeking for the best quality and the highest user experience, seeking for the use of the best coding standards, constant communication with country managers and testers around the world. Under my responsibility it is the launch of new services with new countries.    Responsibilities:  • Web implementation for different web sites (landing pages) with Flask and Python  • Implementing admin sites to manage database information with FlaskAdmin, MySQL and SQLite.  • Python scripting implementation for processing database records.  • Extensive experience doing backend development using Python  • Nodejs for implementing restful web services  • Develop all the backend implementation for new connections with carriers; this includes publishing and consuming restful web services with CherryPi.  • Implementing queues with RabbitMQ to manage the billin in our services, this help us to avoid losing transactions and have a better performance in our platform, once the queue was created a processor implemented in Python was implemented.  • Source control tools like GIT (Github,) SVN and Jenkins.  • Front End Development when it was needed using HTML5, HTML4 with responsive designs and adaptive for mobile.  • Backend Development, generation of administration panels, and catalog administration with Silex.    Mobile Project Implementation:  Application 1 - Flying dog (Playcenter):  "Flying dog" is a game created for Telcel company where the main character is a dog called Renato. The objective of the game was to avoid obstacles while the dog is flying. This was a freemium game but if the user decided to subscribe he can download 2 more games and the user would be billed. The game was developed completely in Java Android SDK, using PHP and MySql as backend. Different layouts were created from the scratch to Save / Retrieve scores, save user profile information. Model View control was used for pattern.    Application 2 - Hopping Bird:  This was a game where the goal of the bird was to jump obstacles while it was running. This was an app that was part of playcenter, if the user was subscribed to our service then it was allowed to play this game. The game was developed in Java Android SDK and all the backend in PHP and Mysql.    Application 3 - Highway Car:  Highway car was part of the playcenter app and the goal of the car was to avoid others cars that were presented at different positions and speeds while it was moving. The game was developed in Java Android SDK using in backend PHP and Mysql.    Responsibilities:  • Client Identification: Validation made to check if the user was allowed or not to play the game  • Creation of games catalog that displays the different games the user could play once he was subscribed.  • Once the user was subscribed allow him to login with Facebook credentials to submit scores to Facebook.  • Layout implementation to download games from the catalog.  • Layout implementation for top player list in order to retrieve the best scores of the games.  • Layout to get user's feedback of the game.  • Fine tuning for all the games.  • Layout creation for the current tournament active.  • All the backend implementation for client identification, cancel subscription, check premium status, submit profile, submit score and update user information.    Environment: Python, PHP, SVN/Git (Source Control), MySQL, JavaScript, Android Java SDK, JIRA, HTML4/5, CSS 2/3, RabbitMQ. IT Leader Timwe - Salvador, BA January 2012 to February 2013 Project Description: Develop new projects for business to business area mainly for Mexico and Central America (Guatemala, Nicaragua, Salvador, Honduras and Costa Rica).    Responsibilities:  • Implementing and designing new projects based on messaging (SMS), these projects were developed in Java (J2EE) and Python for scripting.  • Using python for Web Scrapping using tools like Scrapy  • Project Planning, Arrange of the customer project management tool, with times, deadlines and effort that would be required for each iteration, running on Agile methodologies like SCRUM and Kanban.  • Adapting new J2EE core classes to local regions for launching new projects.  • Configuration of new services in Oracle DB when it was needed.  • Implementation of architecture, flow, statistics report for the VOICE TV show, this project consisted in receive all the SMS for the audience to vote for their favorite singer. While the show was live I was in charge of monitoring that our platform was up and running correctly.  • Design patterns adaptation in implementations like service locator.  • Software Engineering, using tools for coding, manuals and standards documents, using a progressive development (bottom-up), seeking for deliverables MVP (Most Viable Product), and the preparation for major versions.  • Q&A Trough Requirements, Customer Histories, Use Cases & Wireframes    Environment: J2EE, SVN (Source Control), JBoss, Python, Oracle DB and Linux. Java Developer Timwe - Salvador, BA January 2011 to December 2011 Project Description: Develop new projects for business to business area mainly for Mexico and Central America (Guatemala, Nicaragua, Salvador, Honduras and Costa Rica).    Responsibilities:  • Implementing and designing new projects based on messaging (SMS), these projects were developed in Java (J2EE).  • Running SMS Campaigns with Java and implementing Gemalto sim card applications. Adapting new core classes to local regions for launching new projects.  • Configuring SMS campaigns for Mexico and Central America Telecommunications  • Operators like Telcel, Iusacell, TIGO, CLARO, Movistar and Nextel.  • Configuration of new services in Oracle DB when it was required.  • Software Engineering, using tools for coding, manuals and standards documents, using a progressive development (bottom-up), seeking for deliverables MVP (Most Viable Product), and the preparation for major versions.  • Q&A Trough Requirements, Customer Histories, Use Cases.  • Monitoring transactions by checking logs.    Environment: J2EE, Eclipse, JBoss, Tomcat, Unix, Oracle database, SVN (Source Control), STKML and S@tml. Consultant IT Learning April 2010 to December 2010 Project Description: Structuring content for online courses of project management aligned to the Project Management Institute by using the Moodle platform.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible of developing sprint plans and implementing Scrum practices for different versions of the online courses.  • Adapting templates in order to display custom information, in order to do this PHP and MySQL was used.  • Building Fit & Gap reports for virtual courses.    Environment: Apache, PHP and MySQL. Head of quality database department IT SEMARNAT June 2008 to April 2010 Project Description: Implementing and integration the new SNIB (National information system on Biodiversity).    Responsibilities:  • Migration of databases collected from different sources (Access, MySQL. Microsoft SQL Server) to the National Information System on Biodiversity (Sybase).  • Responsible of change the team transition from traditional waterfall to agile by using Scrum to improve their productivity and efficiency.  • Develop bioinformatics tools to enable decision making by experts, this included REMIB that was implemented in ASP.Net with Visual Sudio 2010.    Environment: Microsoft SQL Server, C#, ASP.Net and Microsoft Internet Information Server. Software developer CONABIO June 2002 to June 2008 Project Description: Develop bioinformatics tools to enable decision making by experts.    Responsibilities:  • Maintenance to Biotic Information System versions 4.5 and higher, this was developed in Visual Basic 6.0.  • Development of the XML Editor in Visual Basic now part of the tools of Biotica information system that is distributed by Conabio.  • Reports development with Delphi and ReportBuilder that includes information for species. Development of the geographic module in Visual Basic which is part of Biotica in the version 4.5.  • Development, implementation and maintenance of the website relating to Biotic Information System, this was launched in Joomla CMS, PHP and JavaScript was used to customize the website.  • Analysis, design and coding of the application REMIB - World Information Network on Biodiversity using DiGIR protocol for sending requests, integration of DiGIR and darwin core data provider as tools for the request and exchange of data. The application was programmed using ASP.Net and Visual Studio 2005 installed on a Microsoft Internet Information Server.    Environment: Microsoft SQL Server, C#, ASP.Net and Microsoft Internet Information Server, Visual Basic 6.0. Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Python, PHP, Ruby, .NET(C#/VB), C, C++, Java, Java for Android, SQL, CSS, HTML (4/5), XML, SOAP, JavaScript,  Database: MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server (MSSQL) 2003 - 2008, Oracle, SQLite, MS Access** (no longer), MongoDB  Backend Frameworks: Django ( Python), Flask ( Python), FlaskAdmin, FlaskSecurity, FlaskAlchemy, Silex, .NET (2.0 - 4.0)  Web Servers: Apache, Tomcat, LightHTTPD,  Server OS (Setup): Ubuntu, Debian , Red Hat, Windows Server 2003 - 2008R2  Frontend Technologies: JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, HTML5, CSS3, React JS  Development Tools/Environment: Text Edit, Console Git, Sublime, MySQL Workbench (EER Tools), (MSSQL) SSMS, Visual Studio 2003 - 2012, Notepad ++, Eclipse and Netbeans.