Python Programmer and Team Lead <span class="hl">Python</span> Programmer and Team Lead Python Programmer and Team Lead Midland, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Programmer and Team Lead Insight Global, LLC January 2018 to May 2018 January 2018 through May 2018  As contractor to Ventech Solutions Inc working on a contract with CMS.gov (Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services), I worked as a Python Programmer and Team Lead to develop validation software for improving patch processes on Solaris and Middleware platforms. Developed and deployed successfully customizations using softwares such as Ansible, GitHub & Jira along with my python code. Provided business insight for process improvement along with team leadership and training.    My key achievements while at Insight Global, LLC and overall:  ? Skilled in developing applications in Python language for multiple platforms  ? Excellent knowledge of C, C++, Java, Perl, Python & OOP methodologies  ? Skilled in creating innovative solutions for companies and organizations  ? Proven ability to handle complex issues  ? Exceptional analytical and quantitative skills  ? Excellent knowledge of business processes and software development  ? Programmer & Team Lead on numerous projects  ? Experienced in Agile Software Development Process Co-founder / CTO J3 IT Systems LLC January 2017 to January 2018 Co-founder and executive officer, boot-strapped J3 IT Systems in 2016 with fellow partners, responsible for all major aspects of product and services development, managed initiatives, as well as internal IT operations. Highly instrumental in establishing J3 IT Systems as a leading competitor in the IT Operations Management & Enterprise System Management marketplace. Developed strong business acumen, worked directly with customers, sales, and marketing.    My key achievements while at J3 IT Systems:  ? Responsible for overseeing companies Technical Operations.  ? Worked with clients ServiceNow environment to create best in class key upgrade path using ITIL principles.  ? Upgraded customers ServiceNow and implemented new business customizations.  ? Built scoped applications for the ServiceNow Store (ScienceLogic Incident and CMDB integration) Professional Services Developer ScienceLogic Inc March 2015 to December 2016 Responsible for coding customer specific customizations. Languages used were Python, PHP, JavaScript, and JQuery. I did consultation, product customizations and testing for Fortune 500 customers and others. Worked with ServiceNow modules that included, Incident, CMDB, Change, Administration and others. I was responsible for writing code using the ServiceNow & software specific REST APIs. Responsible for building, maintaining and documenting ServiceNow Technology Partner certification for ScienceLogic. Integrations with ServiceNow Fuji, Geneva, Helsinki and Istanbul versions.    My key achievements while at ScienceLogic:  ? Coding and customized ServiceNow ScienceLogic integrations for Fortune 500 companies: Python, PHP, JavaScript, CSS, XML, HTML, XHTML  ? Customized simple and complex ServiceNow integrations per customer requirements: Javascript, Jelly, business rules, client scripts, UI actions, UI pages, UI macros, etc  ? Maintained ServiceNow Technology Partner certification for ScienceLogic  ? Presented and demonstrated ServiceNow solution benefits to ScienceLogic customers using ServiceNow Incident, CMDB modules  ? Troubleshooting customized code built with: Python, PHP, JavaScript, CSS, XML, HTML, XHTML    Experienced in ITSM COTS products including but not limited to ServiceNow, IBM Netcool Tivoli & Impact Applications Developer IV Ericsson Inc September 2010 to January 2015 As contractor to Sprint & Cricket telecommunications companies, I worked on the Sprint Automation Transformation Project as an Applications Developer. I also worked as a lead developer to deploy the Cricket LTE Fault Management systems and outsource parts of Operations. This project was a multi-year project whereby Sprint was able to rollout their LTE Network ahead of schedule. Cricket was also able to outsource Operations and upgrade Systems to support the new LTE network. I was responsible for coding new alarm rules, developing new automations, Admin Portal, Alarm Archival, and making updates to existing applications enhancing Sprint and Crickets IT OSS Systems to meet current LTE demands.    Key projects achieved while at Ericsson Inc:  ? Awarded for company wide Sprint Automation Transformation Project work.  ? Enhancement of FMS Admin Portal integration with back office systems: Java, Spring & MVC  ? Enhancement of Archive Viewer Archival Systems: Java, Perl, shell scripting  ? Development and porting of IBM Netcool Omnibus and Impact code from previous releases Applications Developer III Sprint Nextel Corporation July 2004 to September 2010 My responsibilities included Senior Applications Development, Fault Management, Integration, full stack Web Services Development using Java, Perl, CGI, HTML, XML, JavaScript, Unix shell scripting and several programming libraries. Libraries include Log4j, Snmp4j, Spring MVC and other proprietary client/server deployments. Other responsibilities are integration and development using IBM Tivoli products such as Omnibus & Impact. I have worked developing and enhancing Trouble Ticketing, Correlation, Alarm Archival, Administrative Portals as well as several Telecom platforms to include vendors such as Ericsson, Lucent, Nortel, Huawei, Samsung, HP and others. I have strong SNMP skills. Systems platforms include Solaris, Unix, Linux, Windows and Telecommunications Technologies including LTE, CDMA, GSM, IDEN. My strong areas are Software Development, Engineering, Research, and Leadership.    At Sprint Nextel, I also did development using systems languages C, C++, Java & Perl.    My key project achievements while at Sprint Nextel:  ? Developer for FMS Admin Portal: Java, Spring, MVC, JDBC  ? Lead Developer of Archive Viewer: Java, Perl, SNMP4J, shell scripting  ? Author of Alarm Concentrator (C/C++)  ? Trapblaster modifications (BEA product) (C/C++)  ? IBM Netcool Omnibus and Impact coding for new network elements (proprietary lang) Education A.S. in Electronic Technology Hennepin Technical College A.S. in Mechanical and Architectural Drafting American School of Drafting Skills Java, Javascript, Python, Git, PHP, MySQL, jQuery, CSS, HTML 5, SQL, XML, HTML, SQL Server, Linux Links http://j3its.com