React / Python Developer React /<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> React / Python Developer - Federated Wireless Philadelphia, PA ? Python/JavaScript Developer with proficiency in development of Python, Django, Nodejs, and React projects.  ? Hands on experience using Docker.  ? Hands on experience in Managing, developing a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, and REST API calls.  ? Extensive experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using JavaScript libraries like ReactJS.  ? Expertise in implementing Python alongside using various libraries such as Matplotlib for charts and graphs, MongoDB for database connectivity, Python-twitter, and Twilio  ? Hands on experience in developing API's for the application using Python, Django, MongoDB, Express, ReactJS, and NodeJS.  ? Experience in Object-Oriented Programming within networks as well as online applications.  ? Develop online applications using OOP as well as Python programming.  ? Experience in working with various Python Integrated Development, PyCharm, Atom, Spyder, Jupyter Notebook, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++, and Sublime Text.  ? Experience in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  ? Experience using version control system such as GIT, Codevilla, and Mercurial  ? Agile web development using Django/ Python  ? Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives  ? Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management  ? Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Framework using Django.  ? Managed continuous maintenance and troubleshooting of Python Django projects.  ? Predictive models to improve advertiser campaign performance with Weka.  ? Experience with Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience React / Python Developer Federated Wireless - Arlington, VA November 2017 to Present Description: Federated Wireless develops wireless broadband network management platforms that enable efficient and optimal shared use of wireless spectrum for mobile broadband. The company offers spectrum controller solutions for mobile operators, cable operators, broadband wireless access providers, managed service providers, and enterprises across industries. I was involved in various IT initiative projects but primarily involved in NOAA.NOAA is an American scientific agency within the UNited States Department of Commerce that focuses on the conditions of the oceans, major waterways, and the atmosphere. This enterprise solution had two parts which are the notification system and the WebCarrierID GUI interface. I was assigned to work as a Python developer for the development of the WebCarrierID GUI interface. This module would send notifications/messages between US Navy Carriers while been view by the user with the WebCarrierID GUI interface. I was also involved in designing and developing REST API interface for one of the most critical module of the WebCarrierID GUI interface.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing web-based application using Python, Django, JavaScript, Express, ReactJS, NodeJS, Express, CSS, MongoDB, and HTML  ? Redesign NOAA's(Government Client ) and Darpa's(Government Client ) logo by using Photoshop.  ? Developing a web based application from a window based application.  ? Developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React, Bootstrap and JSON.  ? Involved in Automation Development using Selenium( Python)  ? Built application interface and web scraping scripts using OOP designing,  ? Created Test cases using Selenium( Python) Webdriver methods.  ? Execution of Selenium Test cases and Reporting defects with Python.  ? Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and React that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  ? Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  ? Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites.  ? Developed user interface by using the React and Redux for SPA development.  ? Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  ? Involved in Unit testing, Test driven Development(TDD), Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  ? Worked in using React components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.    Environment: Python, HTML, CSS, MongoDB, JavaScript, Linux, IPython, Django, Express, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Linux, Restful, Selenium, Blueprintjs, Material-UI Full Stack Python Developer SummitWorks - Piscataway, NJ January 2016 to November 2017 Description: Summitworks provides a full range of Custom Software development and Information Technology Support Services, Product delivery & implementation, Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO), and Off-shore Staffing and placement solutions. SummitWorks Web Platform is a web-based interface designed for traders, investors and stock-plan participants. I was involved in redesigning the SummitWorks 360 component, which is a customizable dashboard that lets the user view, monitor and manage their account. The user could also configure their dashboard and insert widgets for Account Summary, News & Video, Trading, Watch List, Alerts, Portfolios, Transfer Money, Detailed Balances, Quote Details and View Orders. Besides the SummitWorks 360, I was involved in Tax Center & Transaction History modules of the SummitWorks Web Platform. In the Tax Center, user could download the tax documents & other tax resources based on the year selected. The Transaction History module displayed all different types of transaction (deposit, withdrawals and trades) for a specific period. User could also assign the transaction to a category, such as investment, retirements or tax refunds.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Build all database mapping classes using Flask models and did data exchanges and sorting as per customer requirement between database and files like Text file to Excel file and vice versa.  ? Designed front end using HTML, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MongoDB and Linux and provided expertise in FIX protocol development.  ? Used Python libraries like Selenium, Numpy and SQLAlchemy.  ? Worked on several Python libraries like Numpy, Pandas and Matplotlib.  ? Involved in using Nodejs, MongoDB and React for the design, development, and deployment of the application.  ? Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process by extending Django user model.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using GIT, MongoDB, and custom tools developed in Python.  ? Used Numpy, Matplotlib, and Pandas to generate products for major enterprises.  ? Developed Javascript based API (RESTful WebService) to track the events & perform analysis using Nodejs.  ? Created a Python/Flask based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/React.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML and CSS.  ? Wrote & executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector & MySQL dB package.  ? Developed and designed automation script using Python and Bash.  ? Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Used Nodejs by creating graphics, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.    Environment: Python, HTML, CSS, MongoDB, JavaScript, Linux, Seaborn, Pillow, IPython, Django, Express, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Linux, Restful Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Temple University - Philadelphia, PA Skills Bootstrap (3 years), Css (3 years), Django (3 years), Html (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Python, AWS, Flask, C, Java Additional Information TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES:  Languages: Python, C, Java, SQL, Javascript  Frameworks: Django, Django Rest Framework, D3.js  Web Tools: Node.js, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, REST API's, ReactJS  Databases: MongoDB, MySQL  Platforms: Linux, Windows  Tools & IDE: Photoshop, Matlab, Weka, Eclipse, NetBeans, Pycharm, Spyder, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse, Jupyter Notebook, Visual Studio Code, and Sublime Text  Python Libraries: Numpy, Matpotlib, Scrapy, Pytest, and Pillow