Senior Java Application Developer / Python Developer Senior Java Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> / <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Application Developer / Python Developer - Securitized Products and FX / Barclays Live 11.5 years of experience in architecture, planning, developing, implementing IT solutions in financial industry. A Sun Certified Java developer, quick learner and mentor with the ability to make solutions oriented, creative and innovative contributions in highly demanding situations. Work Experience Senior Java Application Developer / Python Developer Securitized Products and FX / Barclays Live March 2015 to Present Project Description:  Barclays Live is a cross-asset analytical platform that the Barclays clients use for research and trade. Many Java based distributed applications are deployed in the Barclays Live. The Securitized Products consists of the MBS, CMBS and ABS where each of these have separate tabs for Publications where the research is published, Market Monitor screens where it shows the latest price and Pricing Reports which shows the reports and could be downloaded. The FX application is for the currency exchange trade which Barclays clients use for trade analytics and research.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for development and enhancement of the CMBS new functionalities in Java/Spring and HTML5/Jquery.  • Was involved in the application migration from Weblogic to JBoss application server.  • Was responsible for bug fixing and enhancement of the FX application for the Python and Flex code.  • Provided recommendations on OO design concepts, best practices, exception handling, and identifying and fixing potential memory, performance, and transactional issues.  • Applied design patterns and OO design concepts to improve the existing Java/JEE based code base.  • Worked in multithreading environment for execution of multiple FX orders in the trading platform.  • Worked in the TBAPrice Performance project with the TIBCO messaging issues.    Environment: Java, Spring, MVC, Python, Flex, HTML5, JavaScript JQuery, XML, TIBCO, UNIX, Weblogic Application Server, Tomcat Application Server, Oracle, Eclipse, PyScripter, Flex Builder, SVN, JIRA, Maven, Agile. SSDLC Eng Team CitiGroup January 2015 to March 2015 Senior Java Application Developer    Project Description:  The SSDLC Engineering team is responsible for the automated build for code security issues.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in developing the integration  • Responsible for maintaining, implementing critical bug fix and supporting the application.  • Provided recommendations on OO design concepts, best practices, exception handling, and identifying and fixing potential memory, performance, and transactional issues.  • Applied design patterns and OO design concepts to improve the existing Java/JEE based code base.  • Reviewed code and encouraged developers to use key design patterns such as singleton, factory, abstract factory, etc.  • Responsible for architecture, planning, development and implementing IT solutions for the application.    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, design patterns, REST ful Webservices, XML, Ant, UNIX, HP QC for defect tracking, RTC for source code control, Eclipse, Maven, Jenkins Trade Architect TD Ameritrade October 2014 to November 2014 Senior Java Application Developer    Project Description:  The Trade Architect is a real time trading application built on Java platform.  Responsibilities:  • Interaction with business users on daily basis for gathering of new requirements.  • Responsible for maintaining, implementing critical bug fix and supporting the application.  • Provided recommendations on OO design concepts, best practices, exception handling, and identifying and fixing potential memory, performance, and transactional issues.  • Identified and fixed transactional issues due to incorrect exception handling and concurrency issues due to unsynchronized block of code.  • Applied design patterns and OO design concepts to improve the existing Java/JEE based code base.  • Convinced business users and analysts with alternative solutions that are more robust and simpler to implement from technical perspective while satisfying the functional requirements from the business perspective.  • Reviewed code and encouraged developers to use key design patterns such as singleton, factory, abstract factory, etc.  • Worked in multithreading environment for execution of multiple orders in the trading platform.  • Responsible for architecture, planning, development and implementing IT solutions for the application.  • Apache Ant being used for the entire build process.    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, XML, UML, Web Services, Ant, UNIX, Tomcat Application Server, Eclipse, SVN, JIRA, Maven, Jenkins Lead Java Application Developer Global Data Repository October 2012 to September 2014 Project Description:  The Global Data Repository, referred to as 'GDR' is a position management and reporting database for products distributed and supported by the Alternative Investments business. GDR facilitates the upload, processing, and maintenance of client positions for further consumption by downstream applications such as statements, performance, MS 360 and client serv. The application is currently being used by the internal operations users in MSSB Alternative Investments for managing client positions and transactions and is built in Java/Spring/iBatis framework and follows the AGILE methodology.  Responsibilities:  • Lead the GDR application and directly interacting with the operational users in the Alternative Investments to gather the functional specifications and understand them to build the technical specifications.  • Involved in software architecture, detailed design, coding, testing and creation of functional specs of the application.  • Developed using new features of Java 1.5 like Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums. Developed the functionalities using Agile Methodology.  • Used multithreading concepts in Java to design the application to support multiple user transactions.  • Used Design Patterns like Singleton, MVC, Factory, Abstract Factory, Business Delegate, Service Locator and DAO.  • Implemented ORM framework iBatis instead of traditional JDBC code.  • Designed the application using SpringMVCframework for easy maintainability.  • Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Designed the framework for generation of the client stubs for calling the SOAP Web Services for services like App Authentication service, Account View service and Sufficient Funds Check service.  • Integrated the GDR application with the upstream/downstream applications through JMS, WebSphere MQ, SOAP based Web services, and XML.  • Performance tuning of the application and using Spring batch for the bulk transaction processing. Also, making used of Java collections framework to re-design the application for better performance.  • Designed the Front-end screens using Flex, HTML and JavaScript.  • Performing Code reviews with the team, design reviews with the Architects.  • Preparing builds, deploy and Co-ordinate with the release management team to ensure that the proper process is followed during the release.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  • Providing End to End support for the testing activities during System Testing and UAT.  • Production support for the application and handling of critical issues in timely manner by analyzing and writing SQL queries in DB2.  Environment: Java, Spring, Spring batch, iBatis, DB2, JavaScript, SOAP Web Services, XML, JMS, ETL, RAD, Synergy, IBM DB2 Data Studio, Visio, Release and build management tools like Encore Lead Java Developer Statement Operations Workstation August 2010 to September 2012 Project Description:  SOW (Statements Operations Workstation) is a web based user interface used by the Statements Operations team to make special requests / handling of Client Statements for a related group of Client Accounts. The application is currently being used by the internal operations users in MSSB Statements on a monthly basis for initiating inserts, messages, special handling instructions, forcing accounts for Client Statements and is built in Java/J2EE/Flex framework and follows the AGILE methodology.  Responsibilities:    • Lead the SOW application and directly interacting with the operational users in the Client Statements to gather the functional specifications and understand them to build the technical specifications.  • Involved in software architecture, detailed design, coding, testing and creation of functional specs of the application specially for insert/message/special handling/ forcing.  • Developed using new features of Java 1.5 like Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums. Developed the functionalities using Agile Methodology  • Used multithreading concepts in Java to design the application to support multiple user processing the inserts/messages during the month-end.  • Developed Java Exception Handling Framework for whole system.  • Created wrapper classes for Java collections.  • Used Design Patterns like Singleton, MVC, Factory, Abstract Factory, Business Delegate, Service Locator and DAO.  • Implemented ORM framework Hibernate instead of traditional JDBC code.  • Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Integrated the SOW application with the upstream applications through JMS, WebSphere MQ, RESTFul webservices and XML.  • Designed the logical and physical data model, generated DDL scripts, and wrote DML scripts for SQL Server database.  • Tuned SQL statements, Hibernate mapping, and WebSphere application server to improve performance, and consequently met the SLAs.  • Performing Code reviews with the team, design reviews with the Architects.  • Preparing builds, deploy and Co-ordinate with the release management team to ensure that the proper process is followed during the release.  • Providing End to End support for the testing activities during System Testing and UAT.  • Production support for the application and handling of critical issues in timely manner by analyzing and writing SQL queries in SQL Server.  Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, SQL Server, RESTFul Web Services, XML, JavaScript, UNIX, RAD, Synergy, Teradata, Release and build management tools like Encore. Senior Java Developer FREIGHT COMMODITIES December 2007 to August 2010 Project Description:  Freight Commodities is an intranet application for logging and storing the Freight information and generation of reports.  Responsibilities:    • Worked as Senior Java application developer and directly interacting with the operational users in the Freight Commodities to gather the functional specifications and understand them to build the technical specifications.  • Involved in software architecture, detailed design, coding, testing and creation of functional specs of the application.  • Developing the web applications using Core Java (Threading and Collection).  • Performance tuning of the application.  • Configured Spring to manage Actions as beans and set their dependencies in a Spring context file and integrated middle tier with Struts web layer.  • Developing RIA's (Rich Internet Applications) using a combination of Flex, ActionScript and JavaScript.  • Wrote complex PL/SQL stored procedures and queries in Sybase database.  • Performing Code reviews with the team, design reviews with the Architects.  • Preparing builds, deploy and Co-ordinate with the release management team to ensure that the proper process is followed during the release.  • Providing End to End support for the testing activities during System Testing and UAT.  • Production support for the application and handling of critical issues in timely manner.    Environment: Java, Struts, Hibernate, Sybase, JavaScript, Rational Application Developer, UNIX, XML, RESTful webservices. Senior Java Developer Distributed Order Management January 2006 to July 2007 Project Description:  Distributed Order Management is a product primarily used for managing of orders.  Responsibilities:  Worked as a senior Java developer; major responsibilities include communicating with the business analysts to gather and discuss the requirements for the DOM project. Actively involved in planning and estimation of the tasks, designing, development and unit testing of the front-end screens in JSF(Java Server Faces ).  • Involved in complete hands on programing on the core product development using J2EE, JSF and Hibernate.  • Used Hibernate to do the object relational mapping between the tables and java objects.  • Wrote Test Cases using JUNIT as a framework.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic server.  • Responsible for writing complex SQL and HQL queries.  • Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.  • Developed Use case diagrams, Object diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML.  Environment: Java, Javascript, JSF, Oracle Stored Procedures, JSP, Eclipse, SQL Server Management Studio and Weblogic server. Java Developer JPMC May 2004 to December 2005 Project Description:  This was basically a development project for the advanced debt services, an extension to the AFRA.  Role & Responsibility:  Worked as a Java developer; major responsibilities include communicating with the business analysts to gather and discuss the requirements for the ADS project. I was actively involved in planning and estimation of the tasks, designing, development and unit testing of the screens in Struts framework.  • Responsible for developing and maintaining all the EJB entity and session beans.  • I was also involved in designed and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, JavaScript and JDBC for administering and managing users and clients.  • Developed the application using Struts, Servlets and JSP for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for the client side validations.  • Developed and used JSP custom tags in the web tier to dynamically generate web pages.  • Worked with Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean.  • Wrote complex PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers, functions and queries in Oracle database.    Environment: Java, Javascript, Oracle stored procedures, JSP, EJB's, Eclipse, SQL Server Management Studio and Websphere. Additional Information Specialties:    1> Expert in core Java development with very good hands-on in writing /analyzing SQL, writing stored procedures, triggers, functions.  2> Experienced in object oriented, data structures, collections framework API for framework design in Java including API development experience.  3> Expert in Adobe Flex development for 6+ years and experienced working in JavaScript frameworks, JQuery, HTML5, AJAX.  4> Experience in Python development projects.  5> Expert working in multithreaded Java applications and tuning applications for performance optimization and synchronization.  6> Experienced in messaging systems (JMS/IBM MQ Series) and SOAP/RESTFul Web Services.  7> Experienced working in multiple projects in Java, J2EE using Spring and Hibernate technologies.  8> Installation and administration of application servers WebSphere, WebLogic and Tomcat.  9> J2EE application architecture and design experience using design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, Service Locator, DAO, DTO and Business Delegate.  10> Experience in developing applications using MVC Architecture, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML and Design Patterns.  11> Experienced working in relational databases like IBM DB2, Oracle, Sybase, MS SQL Server and Teradata.  1> Exposure to IDEs like Eclipse, WSAD, Flex Builder, PyScripter and NetBeans and code management tools like SVN, IBM Synergy, VSS.  2> Experienced in production support activities for deployment, bug fixing and troubleshooting for highly critical applications.  3> Experienced working in Maven build and AGILE SCRUM methodology.  4> Experienced in Fixed Income, Wealth Management, Alternative Investments, Client Statements, Commodities and front-end trading applications.  5> Proactive and result-oriented leader with responsibilities that involved architecture review, documenting software architecture and design specifications, implementation in Java and J2EE, mentoring and architecture presentations to various stake holders.  6> Strong contributor towards knowledge management activities including project documentation, user manuals, component user guides and other technical documentation.  7> Excellent track record in dealing with stake holders in technology, business and operations.    Skills:    Technology: Java, Core Java Object Oriented and multi-threaded Programming, J2EE, Python, JDBC, JMS/MQ Series, Javascript, JSP, EJB, Servlets, XML, HTML.  Languages: Java, SQL, PL/SQL, Flex, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, C/C++(academic experience only)  Application Frameworks: Spring (IOC, ORM, DAO, MVC, AOP), MVC (Struts), Flex Cairngorm  Data Access Frameworks: Hibernate, iBatis  SOA: SOAP/RESTFul web services  Testing Frameworks: JUnit  Database: DB2, Sybase, SQL Server, Oracle, Teradata  Messaging: JMS, Message Driven Beans    Operating Systems: Unix.  Code Repositories: Synergy, SVN, VSS, Perforce  Build/Deployment Tools: Ant, Encore, Jenkins, Maven  Development Tools: RAD, Net Beans, Eclipse, PyScripter, Oracle PL/SQL Developer, TOAD  Application Server: IBM Web sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat    Methodologies: Agile methods, SCRUM  Business Modeling: UML, Rational Rose