Amdroid development Amdroid development Amdroid java kotlin New York, NY Android kotlin aws lambda java nosql dynamodb. Oracle. Mysql Work Experience Amdroid development Financial - New York, NY August 2011 to Present Amdroid development. Used aws lambda for development and deployment. Analysed, prototyped and developed several pages for their trade settlement and commission management transactions using restful services in java/ python/ cloud nosql databases mongodb. These pages pull data from the MySql databases and provided paginated results with aggregation where neeeded. I developed a substantial portion of the application which is in constant flux due to changing business requirements. Amdroid java microservice Telecommunications - Princeton, NJ November 2010 to July 2011 Nov 2010 July 2011  Built front end in php to network packet data to generate reports and graphs. The databases used are mysql/postgres and oracle. The system allows to reconstruct applications from packet data. the packets are captured using high end network cards placed in promiscuous mode. The packet data is stored in proprietary stream database. The packet data is then pulled into oracle for reporting. Restful web services have been used for pulling data from one server to another. Python and ruby scripting has been done to handle several linux server tasks. MongoDB was used for displaying data quickly and search querying. used jquery mobile for mobile aspect of the products. Used HTML5. used puppet tool to install software and provisioning. Android Developer Bank of America - New York, NY November 2007 to October 2010 Amdroid development Oracle, mysql, postgresql  WebServices, The front end is composed of tree views and grids. The application is built using  PHP, python, ruby, Oracle technologies. senior software engineer php/ python Financial - delaware June 2005 to October 2007 Built applications for their lock box processing facility in delaware. The applications  scan and upload the check from Navy ships, federal parks, and other national facilities. The  application is built in PHP, JQuery, Java, Mysql , Oracle. Senior Software Engineer Dow Jones - Princeton, NJ June 2003 to June 2005 Built , news, stock portfolio management services using , java Java  Oracle, MySql sites for their portal. Worked on Oracle extensively developing backend stored  procedures.  wrote backend shell scripts in python/bash/sqlplus to do data loading, consolidation and to generate web  ready reports as part of nightly batch jobs Education MS in Computer Science Univ of Southern hattiesburg - Hattiesburg, MS 1993 to 1995 Skills Android aws golang (5 years)