Python Automation Engineer/ Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Automation Engineer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Automation Engineer/ Developer - Mavenir, MA • Over 5 years of IT experience in developing and deploying projects with Python and frameworks such as Django/Flask using one or more ofMySQL, HTML, Javascript, MVC-AJAX, Linux(Unix).  • Extensive knowledge in Python, Django, PHP, MYSQL, UNIX and Linux.  • Good Knowledge Objected Oriented Concepts, Standard Template Library, Smart Pointers, Data Structures and Design patterns.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, PythonSTL, Django, UI and web development  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Designed the frontend of the application using Python 2.7, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Django, HTML, XML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  • Good knowledge on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Knowledge on Cisco technology knowledge in design, administration, implementation and support. In-depth knowledge of deploying and troubleshooting IP protocols.  • Experience in using Jenkins/Hudson as a Continuous Integration server to configure with Ant/Maven  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Developed and executed White box test cases of the Java API using Test NG framework &Eclipse.  • Extended Testing framework by adding some helper classes and methods.  • Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Worked closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications, was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Experienced in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS).  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  • Experience in working with deployment tools like Microsoft Azure, Heroku and Jenkins.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSELinux, RedHatLinux, Fedora).  • Experience in Database Administration, development, design, maintenance and production support of relational databases, business applications, new server setup, MySQL Server installation, upgrade, migration. Work Experience Python Automation Engineer/ Developer Mavenir, MA September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Provided Database Administration support for high volume production Oracle 11g ,12c Databases.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Created data frames in particular schema from raw data stored at Amazon S3, lambda using PySpark.  • Used PySparkData frame for creation of table and performing analytics over it.  • Participated in developing view pages using HTML5, CSS3, and Tag Libraries.  • Experienced the server-side Java Script like Node.js, The creation of Web servers and Package  manager like (Node Package Manager) NPM.  • Involved in creating responsive web pages using Bootstrap tables and grids for displaying data and styling using CSS3 for enhancing the look and feel of Webpages.  • Used Python IDE's such as Pycharm, sublime text for developing the code and performing unit test and SIT.  • Experience in smoke testing, end to end testing, regression testing, integration testing, staging, testing, staging with a production schemas , production testing, dry run, black box , white box.  • Extensive experience in implementation of change request process and defect management process  Experience developing andtesting dynamic, database-driven applications with web interfaces  • Hands on knowledge of System-integration, functional, regression and end to end testing  • Experience with Robot Framework Testing with Cisco Boxes like Juniper boxes ,  Vnf Ethernet  • Decent experience in UNIX in developing the application and familiar with all its commands.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework.  • Performing Functional testing, regression testing, integration testing, and communication testing.  • Have expertise with an in depth understanding of the wide range of AWS services like EC2.  • Knowledge of Chef/Puppet as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploy critical applications, and proactively manage change.  • Experience working with Puppet Enterprise and Puppet Open Source.  • Integrated data from multiple applications using ETL tools like SSIS, Informatics.  • Migration of Test Content to Automation Tool using Python and XML.  • Created and implemented SOA services utilizing SOA programs  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Involved in start to end process of Hadoop cluster installation, configuration and monitoring.  • Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop.  • Managed and reviewed Hadoop log file and also worked in analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using PySpark.  • Built reusable Hive UDF libraries for business requirements which enabled users to use these UDF's in Hive Querying.  • Experienced in migrating Hive QL into Impala to minimize query response time.  • Creating database schema for MySQL Database and helped to draw ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub and deployment to staging and production servers.  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, RIDE, REST, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS). Python Developer Nationwide Mutual Insurance, OH January 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component. The PHPpage for displaying the data uses AJAX to sort and display the data. The page also outputs data to .csv for viewing in Microsoft Excel.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  • Development of PythonAPIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Doing UI Testing, Functional Testing, Feature Testing, End to End Testing.  • Working with Regression Team, Doing Regression Testing, Smoke Testing, Sanity Testing, Staging Testing, White Box and Black-box testing.  • Testing Developer code with Java Scripting, Dot Net and C sharp.  • Written functional phpunit test cases for DataLayer, and Searchserver classes using Django, Curl, XML, JSON, REST base services, and MongoDB.  • Creating Restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with DjangoMVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and matPlotLib.  • Usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQtto display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Utilize in-depth knowledge of Technical experience in LAMP and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django'sview controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used DjangoDatabase API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automates the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JavaScript Bootstrap, PyCharm, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS). Education Master's in Computer Technology University of South Florida Skills Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (2 years), BOOTSTRAP (2 years), DATABASE (2 years), DJANGO (2 years), EC2 (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Primary Languages: Python, Java, C,C#  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, Java Script  Frameworks Bootstrap, Django, Angular.JS, Pyramid, Hibernate  Database Sqlite3, MSSQL, MySQL, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g  IDE's PyCharm, Eclipses PyDev, RIDE  Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss, WebLogic, XAMPP  Deployment tools Heroku, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  Operating systems Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, Pandas data frame, urllib2  SDLC Methods SCRUM, Agile  Testing Frameworks Junit, TestNG, ROBOT, JXL, JTest  Bug Tracking Tools Axosoft, JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  Version Controls VSS, SVN, Github, Git,BitBucket