Agile Coach Agile Coach Agile Coach - Wolters Kluwer Lewisville, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Agile Coach Wolters Kluwer February 2017 to Present Formed and coached 8 Scrum teams and 2 Kanban teams. Led the Corporate segment's transformation to Scrum. Organized cross functional agile teams. Helped strategize at the team, management, product management, and segment leadership level to best guide the teams to successful delivery. Trained Scrum Masters to become servant leaders for their teams. Trained team members to become self-managing cross-functional team members. Trained Product Owners to best orient the teams to business goals. Trained leadership to best enable the success of development efforts. Generated periodic reports for the teams, leadership, and product management in an effort to improve visibility and guide strategy at all levels. Helped coordinate multiple teams working on the same product to synchronize development efforts and release. Worked with multiple departments to foster a culture healthy to agile development while still remaining effective in a traditional market. Stepped in and aided teams whenever needed, providing examples, leading ceremonies, and supporting strategic experimentation for the teams while minimizing risk. Acted as a direct Scrum Master when required, such as with an inexperienced team or high profile project. Scrum Master Wolters Kluwer - Irving, TX April 2015 to January 2017 Scheduled and led scrum ceremonies. Tracked team's performance and guided team members during the sprint to ensure acceptance. Generated metrics and reports to show team progress. Coached team members in agile methodologies, including Scrum and Kanban. Gathered requirements creating user stories to fill the backlog and prioritized the same based on the business requirements handed down by the product owner. Grouped stories into epics and features to fill the product portfolio. Developed user guides and release documentation. Worked with departments of revenue all over the US to aid in requirements gathering and development efforts. Security officer Methodist Regional Hospital December 2011 to June 2015 in Richardson  While pursuing college degree in software engineering, ensured the safety of all hospital personnel and visitors. Maintained computer systems, access control systems, and CCTV systems for hospital and remote locations. Worked with local law enforcement aiding in investigations and guarding suspects while at the hospital. Confiscated, controlled, and appropriately disposed of contraband including narcotics and weapons. Python Developer NTT DATA Services - Dallas, TX May 2014 to December 2014 Developed Python application harnessing machine learning techniques to dynamically group large amounts of non-numerical data in an effort to reduce reaction time for customer escalations. Telephone switch contractor SMS Data Products Group LLC August 2010 to August 2011 Tasked to oversee the Fort Hood telecommunications software upgrade. Supervised DMS500 switch repair and upgrade to Optera5000 equipment for Sonet operation and VOIP capability. Aided in maintenance of existing DMS500 switch. Repaired and replaced switch equipment and updated telecommunications tables to ensure 95% operating efficiency and aiding in the improvement of the same from 88%. Helped train existing switching personnel in switch maintenance procedures. Telephone Switch Technician US Air Force July 2003 to July 2009 Maintained largest multifunction telecommunications switch in the Department of Defense, as well as 3 remote switches. Replaced equipment and maintained software tables to ensure 99% operating efficiency. Oversaw installations and upgrades to switching equipment. Wrote programs to improve operating efficiency in proprietary Nortel scripting language. Maintained white house communications trunks. Utilized communications expertise in deployed locations outside of the country to establish and maintain communications in remote areas. Education Bachelor's of Science in Software Engineering University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX Skills KANBAN (3 years), PYTHON (Less than 1 year), .NET (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), DATABASES (Less than 1 year), Scrum (3 years), Agile (3 years), Portfolio Management (3 years), Project Management (3 years), Project Coordination (3 years), Project Planning (3 years), Project Development (3 years), Unix (6 years), Word (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), Powerpoint (10+ years), Visio (4 years), Central Agile (Rally) (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) March 2016 to September 2019 Certified Scrum Product Owner (CSPO) September 2017 to September 2019 Professional Scrum Master (PSM) I October 2017 to Present Scaled Agilist (SA) 4.5 September 2017 to September 2020 Pragmatic Marketing III March 2018 to Present Additional Information Technical Summary (listed in order of experience)  ? Software Development Methodologies: SCRUM, SAFe, Kanban, and Pragmatic Marketing  ? Office Tools: CA (Rally), TFS, Outlook, MS Word, Excel, Visio, PowerPoint, LibreOffice Suite    ? Operating Systems: Ubuntu, Windows  ? Design & IDE Tools: Eclipse, Emacs, MS Visual Studio, MS SQL Server  ? Programming Languages: Python, Java, C#, Unix, .Net  ? Databases: SQL, MySQL