Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Srimatrix Inc Dallas, TX • Around 5 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and coding using Python, Django, Java, Spring, AWS.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experienced with full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and Agile methodologies.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Java, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience with WAMP and LAMP environments.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, CSS and Bootstrap. And familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience configuring and developing with different Database servers including MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle and Mongo Db.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Experience includes Database Design, Analysis and Development with MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server.  • Hands on experience programming with C++ PYTHON, DJANGO and AJAX technologies.  • Proficient in Software Design and Development with a solid background in Developing and Experience developing applications in Linux Environment.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Strong Knowledge of web application security and access control.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills. Work Experience Python Developer Srimatrix Inc - Plano, TX April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django'sview controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux. Programming in Python as well as Perl.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format. Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra. Python Developer Jefferies Group - Jersey City, NJ February 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  * Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  * Participated in the complete SDLC process.  * Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  * Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  * Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  * Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  * Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  * Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for Automated Asset Department Reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  * Used several python libraries like WXPython, Numpy And Matplotlib.  * Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  * Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  * Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  * Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  * Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  * Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of project.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, JIRA. Software Engineer NetCracker June 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and Designed application and created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS. Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Deployed with Fabric on AWS on EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Implementation, Testing and support. Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis and added support for open stock.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process and added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more Restful and thread-safe.  • Designed Restful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, SVN, UNIX, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, , Amazon BotoPil, Windows. Education Master's Skills CSS (4 years), DEPLOYMENT (4 years), DJANGO (4 years), HTML (4 years), jQuery (4 years), MySQL, ASP, Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, Python, Java, Shell Scripting, Django  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, XML, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and CSS Bootstrap.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, PyJamas, Jython, Angular JS, Node JS, Spring, Hibernate  Webserver Apache HTTP webserver, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat  IDE Eclipse, Webstorm, Sublime Text, Brackets, Pycharm, Pystudio, Pyscripter.  Deployment /Analytic Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2, Jenkins, Fabric, Google Analytics Fiddler  Cloud Computing AWS EC2, S3, RDS (MY SQL), SQS  J2EE JDBC, JNDI, JSP and servlets  Databases Oracle, MySQL, SQLite, Cassandra, Redis and mongo DB  Operating Systems Windows, Red Hat Linux, Mac OS  Other Tools Bugzilla, Jasmine, Pyunit, JIRA, Junit, Git, SVN, CVS