Test Lead/ Python Developer Test Lead/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Test Lead/ Python Developer - Wells Fargo Bank Charlotte, NC • 11 years of experience in Software Applications, Web applications development and testing with Financial, Banking, Healthcare and Retail domain.  • Good verbal and written communication skills.  • Exposure of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with different models like Waterfall, V-Model, and Agile-Scrum.  • Working experience in designing and implementation of QA test strategy.  • Experienced includes the testing of software (Windows and Mac OS) and Web-based applications using Manual & Automation Testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Test Lead/ Python Developer Wells Fargo Bank - Charlotte, NC July 2017 to Present Project Description:  Wells Fargo and company is a multinational banking and financial service holding company. My team was a part of middleware services. We created a web based application through which we are able to track and report middleware products install on our servers.  Responsibilities  * Worked with HTML, CSS, MS SQL and Python for web development.  * Created small programs and tools using python.  * Experience in working with Microsoft Azure Cloud environment.  * Helped creating and updating Business requirement document (BRD) and functional specification document (FSD). Also find and report discrepancies on BRD and FSD.  * Created simple and complex queries on relational database like MS SQL. Also created tables.  * Used JIRA for defect tracking, updating requirement, test case and test plan management.  * Used VersionOne for project management.  * UAT testing, Functional testing, Integration testing, Use Cases, Regression testing, Interface testing, Database testing, End to End testing, Backend testing, web-based testing, Code testing, Acceptance testing, production testing, re-testing.  * Used HP ALM for testing purposes.  * Created Test plan, Test cases and Test scripts.  * Worked closely with development team for defect and release management.  * Conducted post-production testing.  * Was involved in release management and was represented as development lead for production release call.  * Helped production support team for production issues and tickets.  * Worked towards analysis Root Causes of issues and defects found while testing.  * Experienced in handling training and communication for business Users.  Environment: HP ALM 12, Manual Testing, Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Window 7 and 10, Internet Explorer, Edge, Google Chrome, MS SQL 2012. Test Lead HubEntry - Edison, NJ October 2015 to July 2017 Project Description:  HubEntry is a web-based application, which records timings and works progress of employees on an individual level. It also provides customer info, projects, expense sheet, documents exchange, my info, appraisal, and notification.  Responsibilities  * Worked with creating and prioritizing user stories.  * Experienced conducting UAT testing, Functional testing, Use Cases, Regression testing, Database/ Backend testing, web-based testing.  * Attended and sometimes organized daily standup meeting.  * Experienced in creating tables and creating simple and complex queries in MS SQL.  * Experienced in cross-browser testing (Google Chrome, IE, Firefox).  * Experienced working with AWS (Amazon Web services) / cloud technology.  * Experienced working with Visual Studio using C# and asp.net.  * Experienced with creating, updating and executing test cases.  Environment: Manual Testing, Selenium, Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, Window 7, MS SQL. Senior QA Analyst Wells Fargo Bank - Charlotte, NC August 2013 to October 2015 Project Description:  Wells Fargo and company is a multinational banking and financial service holding company. My team was apart of Home Mortgage department of the company. Our work was to continuously improve the ongoing application, which supports all the HARP-eligible loans. Our application was conducting all the processes, which is required to be conducted by all our business partners to fund a loan.  Responsibilities  * Experienced working with software development lifecycle using waterfall Methodology.  * Created simple and complex queries on relational database like MS SQL. Also created tables.  * Worked towards providing production support after Release. Also opened and worked on production issues using JIRA.  * Used applications like HP ALM, IBM ClearQuest and JIRA for defect tracking, updating requirement, test case and test plan management. Also reviewed test plans for new team members.  * Provided daily reports using HP ALM and weekly report (such as requirement traceability matrix) to superiors regarding project progress using MS Word and Excel.  * UAT testing, Functional testing, Integration testing, Use Cases, Regression testing, Interface testing, Database testing, End to End testing, Backend testing, web-based testing, Code testing, Acceptance testing, production testing, re-testing.  * Used QTP tool for conducting automation testing.  * Continuously modified home mortgage Rush application.  * Used for ICMP, EDS, and LIS for document printing.  * Used of Mainframe application for testing, researching, printing documents and validating.  * Conducted testing on virtual printing applications.  * Worked with other home mortgage development team and Business User team like Sales, fulfillment, underwriters, capital market for resolving application related issues.  * Experienced with calculating and validating the Mathematical and statistical analysis applications.  * Created Business requirement document (BRD) and functional specification document (FSD).  * Created Data flow Diagram, workflow diagram and process mapping using MS Visio.  * Created and analyzed a testing report by collecting data from other teammates using Excel and Word.  * Worked towards analysis Root Causes of issues and defects found while testing.  * Experienced in handling training and communication for business Users and new teammates.  * Used Sharepoint for sharing documents and singing off test completion documents.  Environment: HP ALM 11 and 12, QTP 11, Manual Testing, Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, Window 7, Internet Explorer, SQL Server 2008, 2008R2 and 2012. QA Analyst PepsiCo - Somers, NY June 2011 to August 2013 Project Description:  PepsiCo Inc. is a multinational food, snack and beverage corporation, with interests in the manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of grain-based snack foods, beverages, and other products. The project was to create a monthly report of the surveys taken by distributors all over the U.S. The application was created to help analysis sales pattern all over the US and then use the information to manufacture products in particular regions and plants to save additional costs.  Responsibilities  * Identifying, understanding and analysis business requirements.  * Experienced working with software development lifecycle using Agile Methodology.  * Experienced with calculating and validating the Mathematical and statistical analysis applications.  * Experienced in testing mobile application on iPhone and Ipad testing.  * Experienced in the testing web-based application on mobile browsers (IOS operating system).  * Created simple and complex queries on relational database like MS SQL.  * Used UFT 12.0 for Web browser testing on windows operating system.  * Created, recorded, updated and executed test cases in HP ALM and HP QC.  * Provided weekly update and report (such as requirement traceability matrix) to superiors regarding project progress using MS Word and Excel.  * Worked closely with developers to test ETL processes.  * Created test scenarios, test cases and test scripts for testing purposes.  * Experienced working with cloud technologies like AWS.  * UAT testing, software testing, Acceptance testing, Use Cases, Functional testing, Interface testing, Integration testing, Regression testing, End to End testing, Database testing, Backend testing, production testing, re-testing.  * Worked towards analysis Root Causes of issues and defects found while testing.  * Helped in creating Business requirement document (BRD) and functional specification document (FSD).  * Created Data flow Diagram, workflow diagram and process mapping using MS Visio.  Environment: Quality Center 10, Agile, Manual Testing, Microsoft Word, Excel, UFT 12.0, Powerpoint, Window 7, IOS, Android, Mobile Application Testing using Ipad and iPhone testing, Mobile browser: Safari, Internet Explorer, SQL 2008, MS Visio, HP ALM. QA Analyst PHH Mortgage Company - Mount Laurel, NJ April 2009 to June 2011 Project Description:  PHH Mortgage Provides private-label mortgage solutions to clients nationwide who are leaders in their fields of business, including financial institutions, real estate companies, credit unions, corporations and government agencies. The project was the integration project of PHH's wholly owned subsidiary to 3rd party vendor creating a Joint venture. There was a transition of Subsidiary's appraisal functionality to 3rd party vendor application. While also building the appropriate interfaces back to PHH's core technology applications.  Responsibilities  * Experienced in handling training for business Users and new teammates.  * Experienced working with Agile Methodology.  * Created simple and complex queries on relational databases like MS SQL.  * Used Automation tool QTP 10 for conducting regression testing.  * Developed Test Cases for Web Services / SOA / XML applications.  * Created Automation test framework using Selenium IDE.  * Used applications like Quality center and HP ALM for defect tracking, updating requirement, test case and test plan management.  * Formulate methods to perform Positive and Negative testing for the given requirements.  * Involved in Functional testing, Software testing, Smoke and Sanity testing, End-to-End testing, web-based, Data Validation, Integration, Regression and User Acceptance testing, Use Cases testing.  * Worked with applications, which were built using JAVA, C#, and JavaScript.  * Helped creating Business requirement document (BRD) and functional specification document (FSD).  * Created Data flow Diagram, workflow diagram and process mapping.  * Worked towards analysis Root Causes of issues and defects found while testing.  * Presented business vision and scope definition and business requirement using Microsoft PowerPoint.  * Used Sharepoint for sharing documents and singing off test completion documents.  Environment: Window 7, Agile scrum, Internet Explorer, QTP, Quality Center, MS SQL 2008, Manual Testing. QA Analyst Life Technologies - Carlsbad, CA February 2007 to April 2009 Project Description:  Life Technologies is the supplier of instruments and Lab essentials for major Medical Organizations and Universities for Research purpose. Life Technologies planned to automate the application used by their Supply Centre Management System (SCMS).  Responsibilities  * Performed test cases in Load runner for Load testing.  * Experienced with calculating and validating the Mathematical and statistical analysis applications.  * Used applications like Quality center for defect tracking, updating requirement, test case and test plan management.  * Follow tracking sheets to assigned work and track the progress on a daily basis and reported the same to the manager with graphs showing Actual progress against the Planned.  * UAT testing, Functional testing, software testing, web-based testing, Use Cases testing, Integration testing, Regression testing, re-testing, interface testing, Automation testing.  * Developed automation scripts using QTP 11.  * Performed Web services testing Using Soap UI  * Participated in scrum meetings for reporting testing issues.  Environment: Quality Center, QTP, Agile, Manual Testing, Microsoft Word, Excel, Powerpoint, MTM, SOAP UI, Selenium, Load runner Education Bachelor's