Recharge on SQL/ Python Recharge on SQL/<span class="hl">Python</span> Fremont, CA ? Strong applied econometrics and statistical modeling skills; Solid knowledge in data mining.  ? Proficiency in SAS (Certified Base Programmer), R, Stata, EVIEWS, advanced MS Access/Excel?including formulas, calculations, charts, graphs, etc.  ? 5-year professional experiences in data extraction, cleansing, validation and analysis using various versions of SAS software, proficient in Base SAS, SAS/MACROS, SAS/GRAPH, SAS/STAT, SAS/ACCESS, SAS/REPORT on Linux and Windows environment.  ? Hands on SQL and Python programming skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Recharge on SQL/ Python December 2018 to Present Recharge on SQL/ Python, finished Data Analysist Program with certificate from Dataquest.io  2018-present Research Analyst Institute for Research - Madison, WI September 2010 to March 2012 Worked within a team to conduct analysis on social science and policy related problems using econometrics methods and statistics techniques by using PROC SQL, PROC REG, SAS Macros, SAS Arrays.  ? Cleaning, aggregating huge data, constructing new variables and analyzing data.  ? Involved in Milwaukee Jail data project and Wisconsin refugee project by merging and restructuring huge and complex raw data (400m+ rows), such as Jail data, revenue data, refugee data etc. from multiple government departments.  ? Built analytical data sets, including development of SAS programs for the extraction and transformation of data across multiple platforms such as mainframe, server, and desktop.  ? Created desired reports and summaries using SAS reporting procedures such as PROC REPORT, PROC SUMMARY PROC Tabulate and PROC FREQ etc.  ? Joining multiple tables, sorting data, creating SQL views, creating indexes and metadata analysis by using Proc SQL.  ? Involved in developing, debugging, and validating project-specific SAS programs to generate derived SAS datasets, summary tables, and data listings based on requirements.  ? Built Macros and created macro variables using %LET, CALL SYMPUT, and DATA _NULL_ to help generate analytical data sets and create specified structure of TLFs.  ? Documented data sets, extraction and analysis programs. Teaching Assistant University of Missouri in Columbia - Columbia, MO January 2007 to August 2010 Developed and lectured courses deliberately, organized interesting class activities, assignments and exams.  ? Helped professors to manage lectures of 500 undergraduate students as teaching assistant.  ? Monitored students' learning progress, communicated with them effectively and built a good relationship. Web developer & Quality control manager Zhongnongwang e-commerce Ltd July 2001 to May 2005 Developed new web applications and management through packaged and customized applications.  ? Conducted all user acceptances testing, and report results. Research Assistant Wuyi University September 1997 to July 2001 Employed Vogel method to obtain the optimal path with lowest cost for the steel tubes ordering and transportation problem, using PROC REG.  ? An analytical model for the stock investment risk and profit, using SAS/STAT.    MAIN COUESES  Statistical software and data analysis Introduction to Mathematical Statistics  Econometrics Methods I Econometric Methods II  Applied Microeconometrics Quantitative Economics  Advanced Microeconomics Advanced Macroeconomics  The Banking System & Money Market Data analysis Education M.A. in Economics University of Missouri - Columbia, MO January 2007 to August 2010 B.A. in Mathematics Wuyi University September 1997 to July 2001 Skills sas, Sql, python, microsoft office Certifications/Licenses Python Fundamentals Present Python Intermediate Present SQL fundamentals & intermediate & advanced. Present SAS Certified Base Programmer for SAS 9 Present