Incident Coordinator Incident Coordinator Incident Coordinator Houston, TX To obtain a challenging position in tech support, desktop support, or repair in a results oriented company where there is room for professional and personal growth. To help improve the company while using my experience and thirst for knowledge to improve myself. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Incident Coordinator Insight Global / Hewlett Packard Enterprise/ DXC Technology (CL) - Houston, TX March 2017 to May 2017 Facilitated incident resolution by coordinating with IT team members to resolve issues, and escalated urgent issues to ensure their prompt resolution.  Technologies used: HP MyRoom, HP Service Manager, MS Office Software Engineer / Python Developer Insight Global / Hewlett Packard Enterprise (CL) - Houston, TX February 2016 to October 2016 Designed and developed an automated testing system using Python, Selenium, and MySQL to test automated OS installs in order to streamline and automate the debugging process for Assisted installs using HPE Intelligent Provisioning.  Entirely re-designed the driver pack installation for IP (Intelligent Provisioning). This improved the installation speed and decreased the size of the driver pack by removing unneeded files and enabling interoperability between all versions of IP by unifying the code base for the driver pack installer.  Created a custom zipped driver pack creator for use with Windows NANO Server  Technologies used: Python, BASH Scripting, JavaScript, MySQL, Linux, Networking Test Technician II Hewlett Packard (DL) - Houston, TX August 2012 to July 2015 Primary technician for all rack tested servers and blades for the entire M6 building including diagnosis, repair, testing (in a Linux based networking environment) and identifying trends in failures and documenting repairs/trends using MS Excel and Access.  Tested and troubleshot failing servers in a rack based testing environment as well as configuring and using RDP to run customer test scripts. Wrote BASH scripts to automate testing processes and verify testing completion for Bing POD.  Lead a team to test racked servers, worked with other technicians and engineers, and managed the Rackspace project throughout entire testing process.  Technologies used: Linux, Networking, RDP, HPSA, BASH Scripting, MS Office Manufacturing Associate IV Hewlett Packard (CL) - Houston, TX March 2005 to August 2012 Lead a team that insured proper testing of HP servers in an automated environment and troubleshot and repaired any failing units.  Built, tested, troubleshoot, and repaired HP servers in a Linux based networking environment. Worked in software installation using RDP, and built, configured, and repaired blade servers.  Technologies used: Linux, Networking, RDP, MS Office for documentation Education Certificate Lonestar College - Houston, TX May 2012 Skills Python (1 year), Linux Shell Scripting (3 years), Computer Technician (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), MySQL (Less than 1 year), Incident Management (Less than 1 year)