Software Test Engineer Software Test Engineer Software Test Engineer - PROFESSIO AL EXPERIE CE Campbell, CA Work Experience Software Test Engineer PROFESSIO AL EXPERIE CE - Newark, CA 2002 to Present Write Python scripts to automate or partially automate several different testing tasks:  • Reproduce file handle leak by repeatedly calling offending application and monitoring available file handles.  Then reused this same script to prove it was fixed  • Generate thousands of fake users into import file to test the user import and application user thresholds  • Extract the User table from SQLlite database and compare it to original source input file to test import  function  • Saved one hour of test time per throughput test run by calculating baggage length, gap, and throughput from log file, thereby replacing tedious time-consuming manual process that used a spreadsheet  • Automatically delete oldest bag data when disk space reached a certain threshold in order to allow for longer  tests without running out of disk space  • Monitor connections on Postgres database and report number of connections in use of maximum number  available    Analyze TSA and internal requirements, write test plans, test reports and write and execute test cases both inside and outside of TestLink. Install software, modify configurations, and perform black and gray-box testing against engineering  software builds in a mixed Windows/Fedora Linux/VMWare environment. File bugs using Trac and Clearquest. Work  directly with developers to understand designs, explain issues found in builds and then verify fixes.    Travel to airports in the U.S. and in other countries to install scanner and multiplexing software, setup networking for checked luggage scanners, and informally train airport staff (TSA staff and local field engineers). Support field engineers and help them resolve issues with software and networking installations at operational airports.    1  Tim Connolly 408-806-0991 ? tgaptte@yahoo.com Python Training Marakana 2011 to 2011 2011 ISTQB Certified Tester Foundation Level (CTFL) 2006 to 2006 2006 Application Developer KEA E, I C - San Bruno, CA 2001 to 2002 Supported HR department by modifying, testing, and supporting the Manager Self Service (MSS) and Employee Self  Service (ESS) Workscape applications, which were used by employees to complete their Open Enrollment process. Application Engineer WORKSCAPE, I C - San Jose, CA 2000 to 2001 Debugged, fixed and tested software developed using Perl, JavaScript, SQL, and HTML. Partnered with QA to ensure  that products released to customers performed according to customer and internal requirements. Web Engineer GLOBALSTAR, L.P - San Jose, CA 1999 to 2000 Supported marketing to keep Internet, Extranet, and Intranet web sites current and operational. Resolved site issues,  performed content updates, and modified existing site applications (using Netscape Livewire and Perl, SQL, and  Microsoft Access). Education BS in Information Technology National University - San Jose, CA