Python Engineer <span class="hl">Python</span> Engineer Python Engineer - NetApp Wichita, KS • 4+ years of experience in IT industry with proficiency in Design & Development using, Python, SQL.  • Experience in application development using Python, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript.  • Worked on several Python packages like Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, and CSV.  • Worked on various applications using Python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and its usage in Python and Java.  • Strong Experience in web-based UI design and interface development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Worked on Python Libraries by following the best practices using PEP-8.  • Maintained the code using source version controls Git and CVS.  • Involved in producing and consuming web services using both REST and SOAP.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like Windows, Linux.  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results.  • Good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, Oracle and MongoDB.  • Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Exceptional problem solving and decision-making capabilities, recognized by associates for quality of data and alternative solutions. Work Experience Python Engineer NetApp - Wichita, KS April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Evaluated business requirements and prepared detailed specifications that follow project guidelines required to develop written programs.  • Designed, added and maintained new database tables for new functions.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Used python sub-process module to call UNIX shell commands to check directories or files exists.  • Rewritten existing Python modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development with MySQL database.  • Deployed the project into Rackspace using GIT version control system.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the applications using unit test module.  • Integrated Build Process through Jenkins to various SCM tools like GitHub, SVN  • Used Git for code submissions and review process.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all its commands.  Environment: Python2.7, Json, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Mongo DB, PyCharm, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Unit Test, Jenkins, HTML Python Developer January 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked with optimization of server resources, Amazon Elastic Cloud instances and website security, Web services /REST, Amazon AWS.  • Deployed the application on cloud using AWS.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Created instances in AWS as well as worked on migration to AWS from data Center. Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  • Developed the front-end featuring web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and used JQuery framework for UI centric AJAX behavior.  • Performed validations for input fields making use of mainly Active Records.  • Implemented a production ready, load balanced, highly available, fault tolerant, auto scaling Kubernetes infrastructure and micro service container orchestration.  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like Open stack.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library  • Working in MySQL, RDS database with node.js framework to develop APIs  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  Environment: Python 2.7, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Git. Software Developer UBN Q Tech Solutions (India) Pvt. Ltd June 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used PHP to write dynamically generated pages quickly.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Web pages on the internet are generated by servers running LINUX.  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects/POJO to hold values between java classes and database fields.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio. Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production  Environment: Python, Oracle, Eclipse, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript. Education Master's Skills HTML (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), LINUX (3 years), MYSQL (3 years), PYTHON (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python, C, Core Java    Technologies HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid.  Databases SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Web Services AWS, RESTful Web Services, SOAP  Version Control Git, GitHub, SVN  IDE's/Development Tools PyCharm, Sublime Text    Operating Systems Linux, Windows  Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall