Technical Specialist (Team Lead Python, Django) Technical Specialist (Team Lead <span class="hl">Python</span>, Django) Technical Specialist (Team Lead Python, Django) - Fidelity Worldwide Investments Seeking a sound and challenging task in the technical field which can provide me to utilize my academic and professional qualification to meet the organizational goal. Work Experience Technical Specialist (Team Lead Python, Django) Fidelity Worldwide Investments October 2014 to Present India  Roles And Responsibilities    • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of Python project.  • Replaced existing UI app with a custom one made in Django from Scratch.  • Lead a team to existing Eagle 3rd Party App Decommission project to create a UI app in Python/Django from scratch System Analyst ( Python Django Developer) FISERV India ltd - Noida, UTTAR PRADESH, IN July 2012 to October 2014 Noida, India  Roles And Responsibilities    • Utilized Python, Django, jQuery and Java etc. to design server applications and client interfaces.  • Evaluated development standards and procedures of engineering processes.  • Managed continuous maintenance and troubleshooting of Python Django projects.  • Handled development and management of front end user interfaces with help of HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created and deployed applications on diverse range of platforms including Linux and Solaris.  • Collaborated with other developers to handle complicated issues related with deployment of Django based applications. System Administrator (Linux) Libsys ltd - Gurgaon, HARYANA, IN April 2010 to July 2012 Gurgaon, India  Roles And Responsibilities    • Installation of Various Linux distributions.  • Maintaining Application servers like Weblogic, Websphere etc.  • Deploying and maintaining Web Applications on Application server.  • Maintaining a backup server and implementing database mirroring between  Live server and backup server  • Working with scripts for maintaining and monitoring the server.  • Monitoring the server and clients with the help of Nagios(AS Server, host based  Monitoring tool.  • Maintaining and configuring DNS server, Web Server, Database Server, Samba  Server, Mail Server, NFS Server, NIS Server etc.  • Applying kernel patches as per requirement.  • Give proper training to the client personal, even handling a group of more than 50.  • Converting various databases in Mysql, oracle, MS Sql server 2005, MS Access into  Requisite format System Administrator, I/T Specialist Chrysalis Information Systems Ltd - New Delhi, DELHI, IN July 2008 to March 2010 New Delhi, India    Performed software and server support for CISL for the North India's geographies. Assisted with critical system outages, software upgrades, and capacity planning. Coordinated with business executives, software experts, help desks, and data source teams in a 24x6 availability environment. Support tasks involved work with AIX, SCO, Solaris servers, SQL databases, DARB products, and Internal System reporting tools, security auditing through Backtrack 4, ophcrack etc. Sr. Software Support Engg Chrysalis Information Systems Ltd - New Delhi, DELHI, IN October 2007 to July 2008 New Delhi, India    • Handling calls from clients and providing them necessary technical support.  • Handling UNIX/Linux Servers like Solaris, AIX etc on the client Side.  • Identifying the problem and solve it on the spot.  • Troubleshoot the problems that occur at the client side.  • Installation & Trouble shoot our software like DARB on client side.  • Give proper training to the client personal, even handling a group of more than 50.  • Administered File Systems and file server with FTP protocols Technical Support Engg Chrysalis Information Systems Ltd - New Delhi, DELHI, IN January 2007 to September 2007 New Delhi, India    Provide technical support to the clients via phone or in person visits. We are providing local support on 24 X 7 models troubleshooting various issues related to Banking applications. The technology implemented for banking software solutions includes VB, Unix, and Oracle etc.  My responsibilities also include troubleshooting various network and server/clients and application issues through phone, remote administration or manually visiting the problem area. Education MCA in project management, multimedia design IGNOU - NEW DELHI, DELHI, IN January 2007 to December 2009 Bachelor of Commerce in Commerce Delhi University - Delhi, DELHI, IN June 2002 to April 2005 Diploma in Information Technology NIIT - Paschim Vihar, DELHI, IN Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    Providing L2-L3 Application Support; Network & Systems Security; Data Integrity/Recovery; Disaster Recovery Planning; Contingency Planning; Research & Development; Risk Assessment; Cost Benefits Analysis  • Platforms: UNIX (AIX, Solaris), Microsoft Windows® operating systems from 95 on, Linux (Red Hat, Yellow Dog, Knoppix, Ubuntu, Backtrack4).  • Networking: TCP/IP, Putty, Ethernet, Token Ring, VPN, SSH, SecureID  • Languages: UNIX Shell Scripting, Python, Perl, Rust.  • Database: Oracle11G, SQL server 2008, Mysql 5.2.  • Application Servers: Websphere 7,8, Jboss 5.1, 6,7. Weblogic 10  • Tools: Django, Informatica, Eagle, Facets, Wireshark, Nagios, Chef, Docker, Puppet, Bamboo, Urban Code Deploy, SVN, GIT.