Devops Engineer Devops Engineer Devops Engineer Franklin, MA • AWS (EC2, S3 etc.), on application Google Cloud, Rackspace, Open stack. Networking/ HTTP, Cluster Configuration and Automating tools i.e. Ansible, Salt stack, Chef, Puppet.  • Proficiency with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ReactJS, and Angular 1.  • Experienced with version control systems Git and Subversion.Developed automation and deployment utilities using Ruby, Bash, Powershell and Python.  • GITHUB, Urban Code Deployment, SVN, Jenkins, Maven Dockers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Devops Engineer www.avnet.com - Boston, MA July 2016 to May 2017 Job Description  Able to code and script in PowerShell and Python. Experience with systems and IT operations, monitoring operations is involved. Using Service to manage tickets as well as building backend automation. Handling tools such as GITHUB, Urban Code Deployment, SVN, Jenkins, Maven Dockers.    Environment  • Git, Jenkins, Maven, Dockers, Python, Jenkins, VMware, Windows Server, MySQL, Red Linux, Putty, Eclipse, GIT.  Responsibilities  • Maintaining baseline for environments under release management control using manual or automated configuration management tools.  • Collaborate with developers to bring new features and services into production.  • Provide support to development teams that use the automated infrastructure.  • Develop and improve operational practices and procedures.  • Maintains the source code change control for applications established for auto-deployment.  • Drives the development and maintenance of build automation tools.  • Measures and reports on success metrics benchmarking performance.  • Collaborate with appropriate resources internal and external to the change and configuration management department regarding issues for configuration management.  • Provides reports and metrics as requested so that achievement and failure of releases can be quantified.  • Establishment of continuous integration (CI) pipeline to fully automate deployment of the highly available, mission critical cloud platform that supports our connected products.  • Building tools for deployment, monitoring and operations. Troubleshooting and resolving issues in our development, test and production environments.  • Up-to-date on relevant technologies, plug into user groups, analyzing trends and opportunities to ensure we are using the best possible techniques and tools. Python Developer www.cerner.com May 2015 to June 2016 Job Description  Focused on testable design and implementation of software in a Python environment. Everyday participation in reviews of the designs and updating in designs, and in code reviews using pull requests. Additionally, the we will be writing some HTML/CSS/JavaScript We strive to be as Pythonic as possible, with test-driven-development (TDD) guiding.    Environment  • HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ReactJS, Angular 1, Agile development, Python 3 version control systems Git and Subversion.    Responsibilities  • Writing, testing, and refactoring Python code for improved natural language processing  • Work in an Agile environment  • Design databases and other storage systems for resilience and speed  • Participating in code review and scrum meetings  • Collaborating with the Operations team to tackle the high scalability challenges that come with rapid growth.  • Supports management with technical performance data from the configuration management process.  • Responsible for development and operations support of change and configuration management tools.  • Feeding the efficiently through our text analysis pipeline, in batches or in ongoing streams.  • Establishment of continuous integration (CI) pipeline to fully automate deployment of the highly available, mission critical cloud platform that supports our connected products.  • Building tools for deployment, monitoring and operations. Troubleshooting and resolving issues in our development, test and production environments.  • Up-to-date on relevant technologies, plug into user groups, analyzing trends and opportunities to ensure we are using the best possible techniques and tools. Python Developer Halcyon Solutions Inc - Dublin, OH March 2014 to April 2015 Job Description  Python Developer to support both the data science and marketing teams, data science team is responsible for developing insights and models which drive marketing campaigns for avnet and its holding company. Deployment and development applications are integrated by machine learning models and marketing initiatives.    Environment  Python 2.7, Python 3.6, Linux, uWSGI, CherryPy, GIT, Amazon Web Services Scripting and Flask.    Responsibilities  • Building and maintaining key front/back end frameworks to support the expansion of research initiatives  • Organizing flow of the pipeline and implementation of it.  • Automation process with popular scripting languages.  • Identifying and implementing processes to strengthen, streamline and automate build processes.  • Thoroughly distill vague tasks down to actionable, achievable milestones.  • Design, Build and support data pipelines used by our data science and marketing teams  • Providing insight and development expertise into the design/build and new analysis techniques.  • Build out API integrations to supply data pipelines and populate data warehouses like S3 or MySQL.  • Assist in implementation of security best practices and initiatives at all levels of the infrastructure.  • Ensure maximum uptime of cloud hosted environments, including production, staging, testing, authoring, and development environments.  • Support an enterprise-class suite of monitoring, alerting, and event management tools including SolarWinds, IBM Impact Education Master of Science in Information Technology Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH Skills DEPLOYMENT (3 years), Git (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), LINUX (2 years), MYSQL (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: C, C++, Java, Various shell flavors ksh, csh, bash, Perl, Python, XML, YAML, Ruby, JSON, Amazon Web Services Scripting.  Systems: Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, Linux Redhat/ubuntu  Utility Tools: Git, Maven, Jenkins, Subversion, Cruise Control, Puppet, Chef, Webload and jCrawler.  Database Experience: SQL Server, Oracle, DB2, MySQL, Postgres SQL, NoSQL, Amazon RDS management.  PROJECTS  Master Data Hub Project: Master Data Hub is an enterprise initiative by Home serve to create a centralized Product Data Hub. The master data hub will be the source of truth for all product and product related messages including partner details, fulfilment details etc. The project included user management and enabled users to create and manage product related entities, currently these are managed using excel and manual inputs. Automating this will enable other systems to integrate and fetch product related data instead of user entry that is currently in practice. The product details entered go through the approval process and this is implemented by integrating with the current Run My Process solution.  Project 2: Reduced deployment time for key Customer360 infrastructure by a factor of 15 (from three weeks to one day) with Ansible.  • Automated deployment of all resources related to my work as the Lead Python Developer.  • Created system services to run on Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 servers to control execution of key portions of the Customer360 project.  • Managed Amazon Web Services for the Customer360 project including configuration and deployment of all required infrastructure, administrative tasks, and budgetin    Academic Project: Created a centralized database for Wildwood apartments to store and retrieve data. Used WAMP server for hosting website for Wildwood apartments. Have done project planning for Medical Informatics needs to expand its clinical data warehouse (CDW)