Computer Systems Analyst Computer Systems Analyst Computer Systems Analyst - CriticalRiver Inc San Ramon, CA • Over 10+ Years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management, and Implementation of various standalone, distributed and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software.    • Extensive knowledge in Python, MySQL, PostgreSQL, NoSQL, Windows, UNIX and Linux.    • Experience with Design, code, debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.    • Worked with frameworks like Flask, React JS, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script and JSON.    • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, urllib2 etc.    • Involvement in building frameworks and automating complex workflows using Python for Test Automation.    • Experience in writing REST APIs in Python for large-scale applications.    • Extensive knowledge of Python, C++, Java, object-oriented programming language and object-oriented applications.    • Experience involving analysis, design, development, testing and deployment of software using Python, C, C++, Java, RESTful web services, Flask, Eclipse, PyCharm, Oracle 11g, 12c, SQL Server 2005, 2008 & 2012, HTML5, JavaScript, ReactJS, Angular JS, Selenium.    • Skilled in tools like Jenkins, HP-QC and JIRA.    • Experience in developing applications using Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, Cloud Search.    • Experience with using REST, AGILE, WATERFALL, Test Driven methodologies.    • Thorough Knowledge of Big Data (Hadoop), Data structures, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (Design Patterns) concepts.    • Hands on experience in implementing several full life cycle development projects from ground up and maintenance / enhancement projects.    • Experience in testing using PyTest, Junit, JEST, Selenium and Google Tests.    • Hands-on experience in developing and supporting business applications for large corporations.    • Designed and developed applications in Automobile, Telecom, CRM, finance, and Industrial automation verticals using SCRUM Methodologies focused in finding strategic opportunities and innovate ways to improve operational efficiency in both applications and workforce.    • Innovative and self-directed individual with strong interpersonal and excellent communication skills, highly adaptable and quick to learn, ability at analyzing situations and taking initiative to solve problems.    • Demonstrated ability to work in a complex organization to determine business and customer needs, providing the best solution to meet those needs. Lead and mentored teams in development, agile methodologies and paired programming. Work Experience Computer Systems Analyst CriticalRiver Inc June 2018 to Present Software Engineer III - ( Python Developer) Client - Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA September 2016 to Present Implementing Python alongside using various libraries such as, NumPy, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, urllib2 and MySQL for database connectivity.  • Developed a Python/Flask based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed applications using mix of technologies ( Python, Flask, Pandas, REST, Java).  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQL alchemy.  • Used REST based webservices with REST template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed the UI for the client websites by using HTML, CSS, jQuery, Angular JS and React.js.  • Responsible for designing, code, and test of application software as part of a development team  • Responsible for System development, analysis, design, certification, testing, implementation, and documentation of new and existing software applications. Integrates knowledge of business and functional priorities.  • Work with architects, systems analysts, project managers, QA and other developers to successfully implement business requirements while applying the latest available tools and technology.  • Participate in design and code review sessions as appropriate; to ensure the quality of work delivered by teammates is in accordance with development standards.  • Responsible for the architecture, design, development, implementation of online and data-based software applications. This includes working with both business and technical stakeholders to deliver high quality products and services that meet business requirements and expectations.  • Design and document technical requirements for business applications.  • Coordinates design activities with other Developers to ensure project adheres to project specifications and provides Supervisor and/or Project Manager with level of effort estimations, milestone timelines, and periodic status updates.  • Develop code in Python, Flask, ReactJS Angular JS, C++, Java, prepare and run PyTest, Junit, JEST Tests  • Develop reusable code components  • Perform peer code reviews & making sure 100% code coverage is there with unit test cases.  • Provide QA & UT Bug fixes and as part of production support fixing the issues within the time limits.  • Business and technical analysis, design, coding, unit testing, implementation and documentation of solutions for new development, system enhancements, and production support.  • Design, develop, document and implement new programs and subprograms, as well as enhancements, modifications, and corrections to existing software.  • Develop testing and debugging routines and oversee execution.  • Create documentation and procedures for installation and maintenance.  • Build and maintain relationship with global and virtual teams and third parties on software development or support issues.    Project Description:  The Project - Cisco Finesse Agent desktop is application software used to manage agents and its state transitions throw-out customer experience. Consists of Conference, Consult, Monitor Agents, Supervisor, admin, Agent to agent chats and other Gadgets.    Key Technologies used- Python, Flask, NumPy, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, urllib2 and MySQL db, Java, Rest Web Services, Java script, CSS, React JS Angular JS, Selenium.    The Project - Cisco Unified Contact Center - Enterprise (UCCE), Cisco Finesse Agent desktop is distributed systems application software used to manage customers, partners of a contact center / customer care.    Key Technologies used- Python, Flask, NumPy, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, urllib2 and MySQL db, C++, Rest Web Services, Java script, CSS, SQL. Software Engineer III Cisco Systems September 2016 to June 2018 Senior Applications Engineer Oracle Corporation May 2014 to September 2016 Senior Applications Engineer - ( Python Developer) Oracle Corporation - Redwood City, CA May 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python scripts in order to parse and load the data into the database, from the XML and JSON files, and wrote programs for performance calculations by using NumPy and SQL Alchemy. Designed and developed asynchronous messaging systems using JMS, MDB, and MQ series.  • Developed applications using mix of technologies ( Python, Flask, Pandas, REST, Java, C++).  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQL alchemy.  • Developed the UI for the client websites by using HTML, CSS, jQuery.  • Responsible for delivering more qualified and major Enhancement projects.  • Building and deploying the new versions of the applications on the client server  • Reviewing the deliverables prior to Onsite delivery.  • Attending daily status calls with the Onsite team.  • Responsible for major Enhancements, Defect fixing and support for the Siebel CRM application    Description:  The Project - Oracle CRM is application software used to manage Siebel financial services customers. Siebel Analytics helps to identify customers and improve their experiences, analyzing logs, recommend products, services, validate transactions, identify interests etc. and increase the sales revenue. Also enhance the existing Oracle legacy framework to support analytics which majorly focuses on server-side programming using C++ and Java Script at client.    Technologies used - Python, Flask, NumPy, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, urllib2, Java, Rest Web Services, Java script, CSS, C++, Java, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 11g, AWS, PostgreSQL, Hadoop, Bigdata, HDFS, Hive, Mango DB. Technical Lead SAMSUNG January 2012 to April 2014 Technical Lead - (Software Developer) Client - Samsung - Seoul, KR January 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Lead and Software Developer for the project.  • Involved in project architecture of the Project.  • Preparing the Functional Specific Documents as per the Use case and UI Design.  • Conducting review for code before delivering.  • Preparing Test Cases and Unit testing of various modules of the system.    Description:  The Project - NextGen Network Camera Software - Open SDK - aims to develop the Software Development Kit (SDK) targeted for Samsung IP Camera's. This software will be release to general public/3rd part developers and helps to create applications exclusively for Samsung IP based camera(s). Developers can Create/Maintain, Upload/Install, Upgrade/Uninstall, Start/Stop camera applications using SDK software. SDK is developed in C/C++ and integrate to WR3.0 camera platform source code.  Technologies Used - C++, STL, XML, JavaScript, HTML, Linux.    The Project - Surface Mount Technology - OLP Software - This project involves the development and maintenance of application software used to manage the chips placement machine (Chip-Mounter) using SMT technology. The application majorly focuses on the surface mount machines (Chip mounters) in the production line. Goal of the project is to increase the productivity by programming the chip-mounter and process the request more effectively.  Technologies Used - C++, Java, Visual Studio, Eclipse, SQL Server 2008. Software Engineer Robert BOSCH February 2008 to January 2012 Software Engineer - (Software Developer) Robert Bosch gmbh February 2008 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for understanding the business & the technology of the client system.  • Software Developer for the project.  • Involved in project architecture of the Project.  • Fix bugs in the application software and deliver patches.  • Preparing the Functional Specific Documents as per the Use case and UI Design.  • Preparing Test Cases and Unit testing of various modules of the system.    Project Description:  The Project - SDESI (Steuergerate Diagnose Electronic Service Information)- This project involves the complete design and development of software used to diagnose vehicle in application level. The goal of this project is to develop vehicle diagnostic software for all European vehicle brands (Audi, BMW, Mercedes-Benz etc.) that would cater to the various lines of business of BOSCH. This project started to increase the diagnosis software coverage of Automotive in European countries Major contribution of the project is about GUI design and software Implementation. It is used to communicate the ECU's (Electronic control unit) fitted in the vehicles (CARS and TRUCKS) and to helpful to user (Mechanic) to find status of all mechanical and electronic components functionality in the vehicle. Software also guides the mechanic to fix the identified problems.  Technologies Used- C, C++, SQL, Debug View, Linux GDB. Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2007 Skills C++ (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), TESTING (8 years), UNIT TESTING (8 years), HTML (6 years) Additional Information TECHNOLOGY SKILLS  Programming Languages: Python, C, C++, Java    Database: MS SQL Server, Oracle, MongoDB, PostgreSQL    Web Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, ReactJS, Angular JS.    Frameworks: Flask, RESTFul Web services, NumPy, SciPy,  wxPython, Pandas, urllib2    Application Development Tools: PyCharm, Python IDLE, AWS, Eclipse, Visual Studio    Repository management Tools: Git Hub, SVN, ClearCase    Operating systems: Windows, Linux, MAC, VMware    Other: Apache Tomcat, RESTAPIs, HDFS, Hadoop, Big Data,  AGILE, SCRUM Development methodologies,  Jenkins, HP QC,  Unit Testing, XML, HTML,  KlockWork, Black Duck Protex (OSLV).