Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Philadelphia, PA ? Full Stack Developer with proficiency in development of Python, Django, and React projects.  ? Hands on experience in Managing, developing a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, and REST API calls.  ? Extensive experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using JavaScript libraries like ReactJS.  ? Implementing Python alongside using various libraries such as Matplotlib for charts and graphs, MongoDB for database connectivity, Python-twitter, Twilio, network  ? Experience in MVT frameworks like Django.  ? Hands on experience in developing API's for the application using Python, Django, MongoDB, Express, ReactJS, and NodeJS.  ? Experience in Object-Oriented Programming within networks as well as online applications.  ? Develop online applications using OOP as well as Python programming.  ? Experience in working with various Python Integrated Development, PyCharm, Atom, Spyder, Jupyter Notebook, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++, and Sublime Text.  ? Experience in Unit testing of the code using PyTest.  ? Experience using version control system such as GIT.  ? Agile web development using Django/ Python  ? Experience in managing MongoDB and Postgres environment  ? Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management  ? Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Framework using Django.  ? Managed continuous maintenance and troubleshooting of Python Django projects.  ? Predictive models to improve advertiser campaign performance with Weka. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Federated Wireless - Arlington, VA November 2017 to December 2018 Description: Federated Wireless develops wireless broadband network management platforms that enable efficient and optimal shared use of wireless spectrum for mobile broadband. The company offers spectrum controller solutions for mobile operators, cable operators, broadband wireless access providers, managed service providers, and enterprises across industries. I was involved in various IT initiative projects but primarily involved in NOAA.NOAA is an American scientific agency within the UNited States Department of Commerce that focuses on the conditions of the oceans, major waterways, and the atmosphere. This enterprise solution had two parts which are the notification system and the WebCarrierID GUI interface. I was assigned to work as a Python developer for the development of the WebCarrierID GUI interface. This module would send notifications/messages between US Navy Carriers while been view by the user with the WebCarrierID GUI interface. I was also involved in designing and developing REST API interface for one of the most critical module of the WebCarrierID GUI interface.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing web-based application using Python, JavaScript, ReactJS, CSS, MongoDB, and HTML  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MongoDB and Linux.  ? Worked on several Python libraries like Numpy, and Matplotlib.  ? Involved in using Nodejs, MongoDB and React for the design, development, and deployment of the application.  ? Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process by extending Django user model.  ? Developing a web based application from a window based application.  ? Developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React, Bootstrap and JSON.  ? Involved in Automation Testing using Selenium( Python)  ? Built application interface and web scraping scripts using OO designing,  ? Created Test cases Using Element locators and Selenium( Python) Webdriver methods.  ? Execution of Selenium Test cases and Reporting defects with Python.  ? Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and React that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  ? Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  ? Involved in Unit testing, Test driven Development(TDD), Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  ? Worked in using React components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.    Environment: Python, HTML, CSS, MongoDB, JavaScript, Linux, IPython, Django, Express, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Linux, Restful, Selenium, Blueprintjs, Material-UI Python Developer SummitWorks - Piscataway, NJ April 2017 to November 2017 Description: Summitworks provides a full range of Custom Software development and Information Technology Support Services, Product delivery & implementation, Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO), and Off-shore Staffing and placement solutions. SummitWorks Web Platform is a web-based interface designed for traders, investors and stock-plan participants. I was involved in redesigning the SummitWorks 360 component, which is a customizable dashboard that lets the user view, monitor and manage their account. The user could also configure their dashboard and insert widgets for Account Summary, News & Video, Trading, Watch List, Alerts, Portfolios, Transfer Money, Detailed Balances, Quote Details and View Orders. Besides the SummitWorks 360, I was involved in Tax Center & Transaction History modules of the SummitWorks Web Platform. In the Tax Center, user could download the tax documents & other tax resources based on the year selected. The Transaction History module displayed all different types of transaction (deposit, withdrawals and trades) for a specific period. User could also assign the transaction to a category, such as investment, retirements or tax refunds.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Designed front end using HTML, Bootstrap, and CSS.  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MongoDB and Linux.  ? Used Python libraries like Selenium, Numpy and SQLAlchemy.  ? Worked on several Python libraries like Numpy, Pandas and Matplotlib.  ? Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process by extending Django user model.  ? Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and React that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  ? Used Numpy, Matplotlib, and Pandas to generate products for major enterprises.  ? Created a Python based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML and CSS.  ? Wrote & executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector & MySQL dB package.  ? Developed and designed automation script using Python and Bash.  ? Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.    Environment: Python, HTML, CSS, MongoDB, Postgres, Linux, Seaborn, Pillow, IPython, Django, Express, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Linux, Restful Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Temple University - Philadelphia, PA Skills Bootstrap (1 year), Css. (2 years), Django (2 years), Html (2 years), Javascript (1 year), python (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES:  Languages: Python, C, Java, SQL, Javascript  Frameworks: Django, Django Rest Framework, JQuery, D3.js  Web Tools: Node.js, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, REST API's, ReactJS  Databases: MongoDB, MySQL  Platforms: Linux, Windows  Tools & IDE: Photoshop, Matlab, Weka, Eclipse, NetBeans, Pycharm, Spyder, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse, Jupyter Notebook, Visual Studio Code, and Sublime Text  Python Libraries: Numpy, Matplotlib, Scrapy, and Pandas