Python Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Full Stack Developer - Roche • 3+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software in Python.  • Experience working on Waterfall and Agile Methodologies - Scrum.  • Handy experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Control architectureusing Django, Flask and Spring web application frameworks.  • Good Experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing Front-End and Back-End frameworkusing various design patterns.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python, Node.JS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures  • Strong exposure in User interface, Web-based applications and Client-side validations using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, Flask and jQuery.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript and jQuery, Angular.JS, Node.JS, React.JS and Bootstrap.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries - Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas dataframe, network, urllib2, Pychart, High charts) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  • Wrote Python based APIs to interface between software and hardware by using Web Sockets and Flask.  • Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful APL and MVC design patterns.  • Responsible for Data Backups, Restores and Recovery using tape.sys software.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications were able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while the site was in production mode.  • Hands-on experience with using software version control tools like Git and SVN.Familiar with RaspberryPI and Raspbian OS.  • Created RPA structure and team along with production support, designed and developed RPA solutions to accelerate Business processes.  • Successfully demonstrated a swarm of three drones communicating via smart contract running on Ethereum Blockchain using Whisper cURL and DEVp2p protocol over a wireless network and hence eliminating the use of modern radios for communication like Feather.  • Assisted in troubleshooting of VMS hardware, software and network problems.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open Stack.  • Good Analytical and Problem-Solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Practical experience with working on Multiple-Environments like Development, Testing, Production. Work Experience Python Full Stack Developer Roche October 2018 to Present Python Developer REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration January 2015 to July 2017 • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Attend walk-thru meetings with the clients to understand the requirements.  • Extensively used Python requests module to call webservices.Used jQuery Ajax calls to build dynamic websites.  • Worked on creating log-in authentication modules using AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and Carpathia cloud web deployment.  • Written numerous Django templates for page rendering.  • Build JSON objects using the framework which will be used by JavaScript to control the flow of the page.  • Resolved performance related issues using efficient coding.Develop dynamic webpages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and AJAX.Good knowledge on Python pickles.Worked on Bug fixes.  • Created numerous reports using report lab and pythonpackages.Installed numerous Python modules.  • Built dB context, run context and other python objects that are reused by the application.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and pearl for Linux and windows.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Node.js, React JS, HTML5 and CSS3.  • For data conversion scripts used AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD, Scala and Python.  Exert Infotech, India  Python Developer Jan 2015 - July 2017 Education Engineering New Jersey Institute of Technology August 2017 to May 2019