Javascript/ Python Developer Javascript/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer passionate for learning and providing useful applications to end users. Weatherford, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Javascript/ Python Developer Innolve - Colorado Springs, CO May 2016 to Present Innolve - Colorado Springs, CO  Contract Employment, May 2016 - present  ? Provide freelance programming services designing and developing software applications for small businesses that range from project tracking to task automation.  ? Developed a Python/Django web application with a PostgreSQL relational database to manage customer asset information for a large pet "resort". Application is used to track overall wellness of kenneled pets, track kennel inventory, and ensure great customer relationships and superior service. Built using Django best practices to be easy to maintain and modify.  ? Currently upgrading the customer asset management app by implementing a Python/Django/REST back-end with a React/Redux front-end to facilitate future feature implementations and create a more user-friendly interface to data.  ? Provide Python/Django and React/Redux consulting services to development team to facilitate future transitions to these technologies for existing web applications. Client Lead/Project Engineer/Software Developer Pipeline Strategies & Integrity - Colorado Springs, CO August 2011 to Present ? Worked with a team to design, develop, deploy, and maintain a C# WPF time tracking application with a SQL Server back-end that PSI currently uses to manage employee timesheet entries. The application provides an interface allowing employees to enter time, mileage and expenses. It also includes a database management module for managing database entries and generating reports.  ? Created libraries of Excel VBA spreadsheet applications that company employees use for various calculations including; pipeline maximum allowable pressure design, horizontal directional drill design, beam loading, structural foundation design, and more.  ? Provided Project Management and Engineering services for a variety of clients on both large and small projects. Projects Included: Pipe replacements via Horizontal Directional Drill up to 2000ft in length; In-Line Inspections involving statistical data analysis of large amounts of data stored in Firebird SQL and Access databases to size, locate, and repair corrosion and/or deformation anomalies; design and construction of both pipeline and processing facility systems.  ? Responsible for maintaining schedules and budgets for capital and operational maintenance projects with approved budgets oftentimes exceeding $1M.  ? Currently playing a primary role in the design and development of a modular C#/WPF/Prism application intended to provide company employees the ability to perform industry calculations per recommended practice from a single application. Facilities Manager/Inventory Control Specialist Storage Services, Inc - Tyler, TX May 2004 to August 2011 Responsible for overseeing the inventory control, sequencing, and delivery of HVAC components to feed Carrier and Trane assembly lines for commercial HVAC systems.  ? Managed receipt and stock of compressors, motors, and copper headers consisting of hundreds of part numbers and hundreds of thousands of individual components.  ? Utilized Excel VBA and Python scripts to analyze inventory data and generate inventory audit checks and reports, virtually eliminating line shutdowns caused by inaccurate component inventories. Make-Ready Technician DFW Honda - Grapevine, TX June 2001 to May 2004 Received and built Honda motorcycles, ATV's, and watercraft per manufacture's assembly manuals. Education Bachelors of Science in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering University of Texas at Tyler - Tyler, TX 2009 Skills C# (6 years), database (8 years), Excel (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (6 years), Python (9 years) Additional Information ? 12+ years of experience working directly with clients, utilizing my passion for learning and critical thinking to create and maintain lasting engineering and software development solutions for complex challenges.  ? Well-rounded full-stack software developer with experience in technologies ranging from REST web APIs developed in Python with the Django-Rest-Framework to web and desktop client applications using Python/Django, Javascript/React/Redux/Electron, and .NET C# WPF.  ? Designed, developed and maintained functional software solutions that have increased employee efficiency and productivity, and are still being used to streamline employee time tracking and engineering calculations.  ? Exceptional communication skills derived from a long history of interacting with a variety of clients, working closely with them on time sensitive projects with budgets exceeding $1M.  ? Skilled at working in teams of coworkers with differing concerns and responsibilities to create effective version controlled solutions.  ? Experienced at analyzing, processing, and reporting on large amounts of data stored in Access, SQL Server, and PostgreSQL databases using SQL.  ? Passionate about learning new processes and technologies, utilizing tools such as Pluralsight, Udemy, and Microsoft Virtual Academy in my free time to deepen my knowledge of industry best practices and cutting-edge languages, libraries, and frameworks.    Technical Skills:  ? Programming and Scripting:  ? Python, JavaScript, JSON, VBA, .NET, C#, XML  ? Database:  ? PostgreSQL, SQL Server, Access, Firebird SQL, CouchDB  ? Desktop Technologies:  ? WPF, Entity Framework, Prism, Electron  ? Web Technologies:  ? HTML, CSS, Django, React, Redux, GraphQL, Django REST Framework, ASP.NET, Node.js, JQuery  ? Version Control:  ? Experience using Git in Agile workflows.  ? Software:  ? Visual Studio Pro, JetBrains - Webstorm/PyCharm Pro/ReSharper/DataGrip, Vim  ? Highly proficient with Microsoft Office with 17+ years of experience with Excel and VBA  ? Software utilized in college: Mathcad, Mathmatica, ANSYS, Pro-E, Solid Edge  ? Proficient with Delorme X-Map and Topo mapping software.