Senior Test Engineer Senior Test Engineer Senior Software Engineer Oceanside, CA Software Engineer and Project Manager with thorough hands-on experience in all phases of system development. As a project manager and lead developer, responsible for successful completion of all aspects of the projects. Test Engineer with configuration management and data archiving using web-based technology. Extensive experience writing test software that controls devices under test while controlling environmental test chambers and RF test equipment. Experienced customer support / sales person in requirements development, system development, qualification, delivery, training and support.    Excellent verbal, written and interpersonal skills. Eagerly accept new challenges and rapidly acquire new skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Test Engineer Security First Corporation - Rancho Santa Margarita, CA April 2016 to Present • Responsible for test automation using Python, Selenium and Bash scripting.  • Develop and maintain Selenium web automation interface in Python for product level testing. The test apparatus reads config files and enters the configuration into the product web UI using Selenium.  • Develop and maintain native Python and Bash scripts that test product requirements and bug/Engineering Change Requests on the product back end.  • Develop and maintain a Python/Django database driven web site to support development side unit testing. Sole Proprietorship Greenroom Software - Oceanside, CA January 2014 to Present • In 2016, filed a provisional patent for a residential water recycling system. Python/Django Developer (Contractor) Robert Half Technology - Los Angeles, CA February 2015 to June 2015 • Responsible for development and maintenance of an existing web-based workflow management portal for a digital media company using Python/Django/jQuery. Production Manager U.S. Navy Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center - San Diego, CA January 2014 to March 2015 • Responsible for production and testing of hundreds of special satellite communications systems per year.  • Customer and contractor interface lead to include order fulfillment, on-site training, technical support and item repairs/upgrades.  • Created automated test procedures by writing test utilities in C# to control environmental test chambers, spectrum analyzers and other test equipment, and the devices under test.  • Test reports outputted in MS Office format and automatically archived via web/database.  • Test data proved a strong trend toward defect reduction and cost savings. Project Manager U.S. Navy Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center - San Diego, CA May 2004 to December 2013 • Managed the development of four new systems from concept to delivery and product support.  • Systems are sophisticated sensors and special satellite communications platforms. Scope included embedded development, user interface development, unit, system and production testing.  • As a small team leader, took lead role in development, testing and Quality Assurance of software and hardware.  • Oversaw home-rolled Linux distro for these products. Products were programmed in C & C++. User Interface Developer U.S. Navy Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center - San Diego, CA May 2002 to April 2004 • Created Windows & Mobile User Interface applications to control special sensors and communications systems.  • Cross-platform development where desktop and Windows Mobile software was built from a single body of source code. U.S. Marine Corps Officer Highest Rank April 1992 to February 2002 Major Education Defense Acquisition University 2010 Certificate in C & C++ Programming University of California - San Diego, CA 2002 Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics University of North Florida 1992 Skills Software Development (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), Systems Integration (10+ years), Engineering Management (10+ years), C (10+ years), C++ (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Javascript (7 years), Python (7 years), Testing (10+ years), Process Improvement (10+ years), Product Development (10+ years), Product Management (10+ years), Electronics (10+ years), Electronics (10+ years), Computer Skills (10+ years), Django (5 years), JQuery (7 years) Military Service Branch: USMC Service Country: United States Rank: Major Field Artillery Officer Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional December 2017 Additional Information Skill Highlights  • Technical Project Management, Requirements Management, Budgeting & Scheduling  • Test Engineering & Test Automation  • Manufacturing experience with printed circuit boards and mechanical devices  • Programming languages: C, C++, C#, Python, Bash, UNIX and Windows Programming  • Web development technologies: Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, Python/Django  • Web testing using Selenium interface with Python  • Linux Kernel and Device Driver Development