Sr. SAS Grid Admin/Dev and Python developer Sr. SAS Grid Admin/Dev and <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. SAS Grid Admin/Dev and Python developer - Chase Bank Chicago, IL • Over 14+ years of strong experience as a SAS Programmer and SAS Administrator (EBI/GRID/VA)  • Well versed with all phases of Software Development Lifecycle.  • Successfully handled responsibilities for extracting internal/external data, data cleaning, Manipulation, validation, developing statistical models, analysis and report generation.  • Strong experience in SAS ETL and design as extracting data from raw data files, excel spreadsheets and external RDBMS tables.  • Used AQUA data Studio, TOAD DB2 for instant query runs for Oracle and DB2 databases.  • Used SVN software to version control of programs and templates.  • Developed a visual report writer in VB, VBA as an MS Excel add-in module  • Expertise in preparing clinical/statistical report for regulatory submission, generating Summary Reports. Tables for safety and efficacy analyses.  • Experience working with business partners, team members and Information Services staff to ensure smooth development and installation of assigned projects.  • Extensive programming experience with Proc SQL, Proc Report, Proc Tabulate, Proc Transpose, Proc Plot, Proc Chart, Proc Datasets, Proc Format, Proc Print, SAS/STAT Procedures.  • Expertise in creation of user defined macros.  • Expert in using PROC SQL, DATA, MERGE, SORT to generate adhoc and customized reports.  • Worked with the marketing team and analyzed marketing data using SPSS, SAS tools to generate reports, tables, listings and graphs.  • Expertise in using DB2, Oracle, Teradata and Sybase database systems management and migration.  • Experience working on different operating systems (UNIX, Windows, Mainframe(OS390)  • Used OLAP Cube Studio to create reports. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. SAS Grid Admin/Dev and Python developer Chase Bank - Westerville, OH January 2017 to Present Chase is the top leading bank in USA, and working SAS L3 Support team.  • Implementing, administering, Development and Configuring SAS platform in a multi-node GRID environment.  • Used SAS OLAP Cube Report Studio to create OLAP Cubes from SAS Financial Management (FM).  • Extensively used Base SAS for data scrubbing and cleaning.  • Involved in complete System Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and Data Warehouse environment.  • Tracked, stored and audited every financial control and processes of TFL financial data.  • Assessed ongoing performance by monitoring departments activities and financial performance  • Reviewed dimension members and hierarchies in SAS Financial Management application  • In Budgeting and Planning I did Driver-based, top-down and bottom-up budgeting.  • Handled data extraction from various data sources like db2, Oracle, Sybase, Teradata.  • Used Python, R, SAS/STAT, SAS/Access Procedures such as Proc Freq, Proc Means, Proc Summary, Proc Univariate and SAS SQL for Analysis  • Automated excel reports using VB, VBA by using SAS, SQL Server and MS Access databases.  • Used Proc Import and Export procedures for importing data from different file formats and exporting data to different formats.  • Creating and maintaining security model in SAS.  • Deployment of codes from lower environment to higher environment (Dev to Test or Test to Prod)  • Backup of metadata, configurations and restore  • Reading through SAS logs to work through problems finding root causes and rectifying.  • Experience with alternative authentication providers such as Active Directory and LDAP.  • Unix/Linux platform, includes Unix scripting and job scheduling.  • Installation, Upgrade, maintenance and support of all SAS components including GRID.  • Security Management - Administration of SAS Users, Groups, roles.  • Respond to and resolve tickets on technical issues related to SAS Platform within defined SLAs.  • Co-ordinate with SAS Support for any unresolved issues and tool specific issues or hot fixes/patches.  • Responsible for Monitoring, reporting, and controlling SAS server usage.  • Identifying problems in advance and looking for continuous service improvements.  • Participate in problem management and come up with trend analysis on recurring incidents  • Creation and maintenance of system documentation related to the SAS environment.  • Strong communication and organizational skills.  • Ability to multi-task, prioritize and execute on assigned deliverables.  • Experience in managing and mentoring others in the team  • Participates in the technical design of application systems. Develops and implements SAS application systems.  • Performs change impact analysis tasks.  • System administration and recommending and implementing program improvements.  • Analyzing, monitoring, and fine-tuning the application system to achieve optimum performance levels.  • Working with internal infrastructure teams and vendors to resolve issues with hardware and software.  • Maintaining a comprehensive operating system hardware and software configuration database/library of all supporting documentation.  • Participating with application system problem resolution by diagnosis and working with internal infrastructure team members to troubleshoot.  • Ensuring production system issues are resolved in a timely manner.  • Creates and executes performance tests to ensure that expected application performance levels are achieved.  • Contributes and at times, leads clients and technical staff to investigate, analyze, and resolve technical problems related to system functions, programming, and procedures.  • Joins in post-implementation reviews of both application development content and process to maximize and share learning. SAS GRID and Python Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield Association - Chicago, IL June 2016 to December 2016 BCBSA is Top leading insurance company in USA and I am supporting and administrating of National Data Warehouse(NDW) insurance data marketing and research using SAS, SAS Visual Analytics, Tableau, Cognos and SAP Business Objects Applications  • SAS production support of reporting and programming of ETL jobs.  • Created and creating SAS ODS reports using SAS EG, SAS SQL, and OLAP Cubes.  • Validating reports and their figures with other department and Excel reports.  • Supported 100 s of Service Now Incidents, Requests tickets of SAS admin and developments issues  • Providing support to internal customers like Client Care, Sales, Analytics of future business, SAP BW data support for ETL and analytics on data.  • As a SAS Admin and architect, I involved in Designs, implements, and maintains platform security via SAS Metadata, Red Hat Enterprise Linux.  • Used and supported in SAS programming procedures like proc FCMP and compile.  • Performed SAS and Linux platform capacity planning and management  • Designed, built and tested a series of SAS programs for the transfer and validation of reports.  • Adding users/groups,  • Installed and Configured SAS GRID (9.4) servers and VA Federation server, Hadoop Server and LASR environment.  • Defining permissions/security,  • Used HIVE/HBASE for structured/semi-structured data and process it with Hadoop Map Reduce  • Hive used for ad-hoc data analysis.  • HBase for a scalable, distributed database that supports structured data storage for large tables.  • Hive used for a data warehouse infrastructure that provides data summarization and ad-hoc querying.  • Understanding of the capabilities of the SAS analytical procedures.  • Provided support of user requests for assistance or ADHOC reporting as required using VB.  • Assisted and maintained Data warehousing using SAS and finished within time frame  • Created OLAP Cubes using SAS OLAP Cube Studio.  • Created and supported Tableau Sites, users, groups.  • Creating libraries and database connections,  • Developed Server and job scripts with Unix shell scripting and SAS Macro facility  • performing root cause analysis for troubleshooting problems  • As Backup support member of the Analytical Sandbox environment I supported and configured Cognos and Business Objects servers, databases, users, applications and performance of daily activities.  • SAS hot fixes maintenance using SASHFADD.  • Generated written documentation of all work performed to report and discuss with management  • As administrative support I supported their BCBSA Service now application tickets of Tasks, Requests and incidents of SAS, Tableau, Cognos, SAS VA and Business Objects.  • Trained, supported and created user's activities and Analytical Sandbox applications  • As a part of the application management I worked with firewall team for designing SAS and Tableau architecture. SAS and Python Consultant RxCrossroads - Louisville, KY September 2015 to May 2016 RxCrossroads is a special services and expensive medicines and medical services provides to patients.  • I am the only SAS production support developer/administrator for approximately 200 users on SAS 9.4 Grid EBI environment.  • Development and management of key metrics related to SAS support.  • Identify, select, and design efficient and cost-effective solutions through research and evaluation of alternatives. Conduct research and feasibility studies for significant new systems or expansion of current systems. Develop project cost and benefit estimates, including identification, documentation and evaluation of alternatives.  • Effectively navigate through frequent changes in priorities, project requirements, work processes, timelines, standards, etc.  • Involved in SAS installation and configuration of the SAS Grid environment with 5 nodes.  • Supported in SAS programming for reports of patients, Hospitals and pharmacy clients.  • Configured different applications like SAS Enterprise Guide, SAS Management Console(SMC), SAS Environment manager, SAS Grid manager.  • Configured and monitored SAS Meta data server backup.  • Involved in SAS Servers start and stop services using shell scripts.  • Involved and managed SAS Logs configuration.  • Configured the SAS Information Delivery Portal by adding and editing portlets and adding alerts. Added links to reports, Web pages and folders.  • In Data Warehouse Environment:  ? Extract and Transform from source data into Staging Area  ? Data Quality and Data Validation  ? Transform into dimensional model  • Configured Object Spawner, Logical data step batch server, Logical workspace server, Logical store process server.  • Configured SAS failover Grid master node and node servers.  • Configured Grid Jobs Priorities  • Configured users from internal and LDAP servers.  • Configured Groups and Roles.  • Managed and do daily Activities of severs and application management.  • Supported production, development and testing environments.  • Supported job scheduling in Autosys and LSF schedulers.  • Downloaded, installed and configured SAS hotfixes using SASHFADD.    Discover financial services (Discover credit card)  SAS Analyst Lending and forecasting, Riverwoods, IL May'15-Aug'15    Responsibilities  • Involved in System Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and Project methodologies  • Involved in System Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and Project methodologies SAS ETL Project.  • Created Forecast models for personal loans and credit risk related reports for Personal loan MIS and personal loan collections and recovering.  • Credit risk analysis using proc summary, proc freq, proc reg, Proc risk, proc mean, proc ANOVA, proc SQL, proc univariate, proc forecast, Proc ARIMA, proc time-series and discriminate analysis.  • Created daily HTML reports using ODS SAS, Business Objects Crystal Server.  • Improved accuracy and relevance of credit card clients planning process reports and budgets reports for make high level decisions  • Involved in SAS 9.4 configurations and administration.  • Supported all the activities to create Forecast modelling and predictive models using SAS Forecast studio and SAS Enterprise Miner. Improved financial performance by reducing losses, improving capital management and building a risk aware  • Reduced time and lowered associated costs of credit card risk related business environment.  • Wrote Korn Shell, Perl scripts to submit the series of Jobs on UNIX and for transfer the data, reports and SAS programs from one location to another location.  • Automated Risk division reporting process using SAS proc risk, proc hprisk, proc hpexport, proc FCMP, proc compile and MS Excel for data loads from Teradata, DB2 and Oracle  • Reduced production effort from three-man weeks to two-man days.  • Compiled Risk department with sales production and market penetration data for executive management. Data included employee activity, client coverage and territory alignment analysis. Sr. Software Engineer (SAS and Python Project Lead) UnitedHealth Group, Optum Insight - Chicago, IL November 2010 to April 2015 Business Intelligence Operations and Support Corporate Systems, UHG IT, Fraud Analytics, Optum Data Management(ODM)    • Supported for all Peer analysis ETL datasets like Facets commercial, Facets Secure Horizons, Nice, AARP, UHMR Cosmos, UHCS Cosmos, Health net, Neighborhood Health Partners(NHP).  • Supported to create all ETL SAS datasets from CCDI(Oracle), GALAXY (DB2, UNET and Cosmos), ARO, GOPHER (Rx data), Medicaid and Medicare so on.  • Deployed jobs for scheduling and jobs as a SAS stored process that can be accessed by a Web service client for which ETL jobs are created by SAS Data Integrations studio  • Divide a complex process flow into a set of smaller flows that are joined together and executed in a sequence using SAS LSF tool on SAS GRID environment.  • Supported Data Mining Queries (DMQs) for all business analysts for Peer and Galaxy databases.  • Developed and automated Data Mining Queries (DMQs) templates static datasets templates.  • Supported and developed Data Mining Queries (DMQs) templates Static, Auto Threshold, DMQ final reports, Run Algorithms templates.  • Created and used building function and call routines of procedures> Proc FCMP, Proc Compile, Proc Model, Proc CALIS and Proc COMPUTAB.  • HBase used for real-time querying of Big Data.  • Providing assistance, guidance, and administrative support to SAS business users with in and various business groups.  • Supported as a SAS admin users creations, permissions and SAS module installation and configurations.  • Submitted SAS ETL programs against Mainframe environment for COBOL created data files.  • As SAS Admin job, I maintained SAS module of users matrix template and created SAS automated template.  • Administrators can efficiently set up system resources, manage user and group accounts, and administer security.  • Experience in Information delivery, Analytics and Business Intelligence based on data from hybrid of Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS), non-relational (NoSQL, MongoDB, Cassandra) and relational Data Warehouses  • administrator set up system resources, manage user and group accounts, and administer security  • Areas of assistance include PC SAS, UNIX-based SAS, SAS ABM, SAS EG and SAS EBI 9.1, 9.2, 9.3,9.4  • Providing Assistance or guidance to installation and configuration of SAS platforms and tools, application of SAS tools, SAS coding, testing, and troubleshooting.  • Supporting Peer analysis, Medicare and Retirement (M & R), E & I, C & S, Medica and AARP users like RETRO, R&V (Referral and Validation), GCA (Government CA) Environments and So on using Python.  • Created UNIX Korn Shell, PERL and Python scripts to schedule and automate the jobs.  • Supported 1000s of SAS data requests from TDSM share point for Peer analysis, Galaxy, Pharmacy and Gopher users.  • Supported 1000's of HPSM SAS admin and developments issues as SAS Admin.  • Working effectively in a team environment with customers, peers, management, and project resources.  • Supported Clinical data requests using SAS and Business Objects.  • Created MS VISIO templates for applications of data flow and logics.  • Supported Cognos and Tableau NQ support for Healthnet Client reports  • Supported and developed for SAS admin user related programs and automated template as SAS admin and programing support.  • Set up servers and libraries for remote data (multi-tier environments) for ETL jobs of SAS DI 4.2  • Management of SAS licensing (PC SAS and server-based SAS).  • Support and development for SAS scheduled production and self-service job development, deployment, operations, support, and maintenance.  • Testing and validation of SAS tools and applications in desktop and server environments. Support for UNIX-based SAS servers related to user access, server performance, server resource management, and troubleshooting.  • Monitor the mainframe environment on OS/390 using TSO, ISPF.  • Python Django forms were generated for online users to record their data.  • Worked with various teams to support Python written ETL framework  • Was responsible for have the modules of UHG docs run with design team for the expected project structure along with their development and enhancements.  • Configured and supported Oracle, Teradata, DB2, NETEZZA, SQL Server Integration Services(SSIS) and MS Access databases with SAS EBI servers like Forecast server, SAS Grid server and SAS tools.  • Complete multiple concurrent assignments accurately and on-time.  • Supporting PC SAS, SAS EBI (Web Report studio, Information Map studio, Enterprise Miner, DI Studio, OLAP Cube Studio, Forecast Studio) and UNIX servers related tickets using HP Service Manager Incident management, Problem Management, Configuration Management and Change Management.  • SAS and SQL - writing SAS programs statements, ETL and UNIX.  • SAS product configuration.  • Production process scheduling using TWS, Tivoli (IBM) and Autosys and monitoring in UNIX environment.  • SAS application development (i.e., building, deploying, and maintaining SAS applications for data extraction and reporting), across multiple operational platforms (e.g., PC, UNIX server, mainframe). Base SAS coding experience, SAS EBI and Enterprise Guide experience.  • Experience/Working in SAS administration, infrastructure support, large-scale business process support and SAS user support.  • Submitted jobs under mainframe environment using JCL scripts and TSO commands.  • Experience/working in platform changes and version upgrades. Proven ability to specify hardware and software resources necessary to meet defined analytic and business intelligence requirements.  • Using SQL in a relational database environment (DB2, Oracle, SQL Server(SSIS), Teradata, and MS Access) to access from SAS Data Integration Studio 4.2.  • Strong knowledge of Windows-based and UNIX operating systems and associated desktop and server environments including SAS EBI, GRID, SAS EDI servers.  • General understanding of healthcare business unit functions and applications.  • Experience with Data Warehouses and/or Data Marts Sr. IT Data Analytics Analyst Bell Mobility - Mississauga, ON February 2010 to November 2010 Market Insight/Marketing Dept.  Bell is Canada's largest telephone and telecommunications company  • SAS Implementation and configuration of SAS 9.2 Enterprise BI Version and SAS 9.1.3 BI Version, SAS Data Integration Studio, Management Console, Enterprise Guide, Forecast Studio, Enterprise miner, OLAP Cube Studio. Web Report Studio, Information Map Studio.  • Support in daily job scheduling, jobs monitoring using SAS® Management Console, the Flow Manager in the Platform LSF Process Manager under UNIX Server environment.  • Migrating from SAS 9.1 Bi Version to SAS 9.2 Enterprise BI version.  • For improving the business, I did work Statistical analytics modeling.  • Used Enterprise Miner to develop Time series Analysis for future targets of marketing business.  • Created and creating OLAP Cubes using dimensions and fact tables, Details tables.  • Data migration from various operating systems (Mainframe, UNIX, Windows 2003) to PC SAS.  • Automations of Daily jobs, weekly(WoW) jobs, quarterly(QoQ) jobs and yearly(YoY) jobs and improving the time performance of jobs to getting output.  • Specified Global Options in SAS Data Integration Studio 4.2  • Metadata Import and Export for SAS Data Integration Studio 4.2  • Using SAS Metadata Bridge to import Common Warehouse Meta model (CWM) into SAS Data  • Integration Studio 4.2.  • Data Conversions and data migration SAS 8.2 mainframe versions to Windows Pc SAS 9.1.3.  • Historical, regular, and Adhoc reports development from old versions to new environment with SAS BI, and Cognos BI.  • Created roles, users. Groups, authorization and permissions as SAS admin.  • Working on migration SAS 8.2, SAS 9.1.3 to SAS 9.2 version to all existed, new reports and queries.  • Data warehousing ETL jobs and Data Marts from SAP BW, Oracle, Teradata, DB2 and OLAP cubes development with Star Schema methodology with Fact tables and dimension tables using Data Integration Studio(DI) 4.2 and OLAP Cube Studio. Sr SAS BI Consultant Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield (BCBS) - North Haven, CT September 2009 to January 2010 By Infosys/Cognizant Implementation  • Infosys/Cognizant Implementing ERISA Form 5500 Schedule A and Schedule C reports for U.S. Department of Labor and implemented significant changes to the reporting obligations of Plan Administrators. Information concerning Insurance Contract Coverage, Fees and Commissions, Welfare Benefit Contract Information, Non Experience Rated Contracts, Experience Rated Contracts, Premiums, Benefit charges, Medicaid, Remainder of premium, Status of policyholder reserves at end of year, Dividends or retroactive rate refunds due, Service Provider Information, Information on Persons Receiving Only Eligible Indirect Compensation, Information on Other Service Providers Receiving Direct or Indirect Compensation.  • Support the annual Anthem BCBS production process for assigned measures/processes (jobs).  • Ensure that source code is updated & complete, accurate and timely based on ERISA Form 5500 Schedule A and Schedule C reports requirements, updates, audit requirements and data sources.  • Identify barriers such as data quality issues and incomplete data, and investigate, document and implement actions to meet goals.  • Uploading the data from databases to Data warehousing of Oracle, SQL Server and MS Access  • Taking the data from databases to Data warehousing of DB2, Oracle, SQL Server and MS Access.  • Used SAS Business Intelligence Tools Data Integration Studio(DI), Information Map Studio, Web Report Studio, Enterprise Guide and Management console to develop ERISA Form 5500 Schedule A and Schedule C reports  • Participate/coordinate in workgroup meetings across functional areas to identify improvement opportunities that will lead to better results or improved efficiencies.  • Perform as the subject matter expert for assigned measures and processes, defining expectations with systems partners and supporting systems development, including specification and code walk-through and acceptance testing.  • Participate in the annual audit process by supporting the business team with documentation, analysis findings, and perform as systems expert to ensure a successful audit.  • Operating systems environment s are in UNIX, Mainframe and Windows.  • Lead/support data-centric initiatives both within the department and in support of other matrix partners.  • Provided support of user requests for assistance or ADHOC reporting using Cognos, as required SAS Consultant Mylan Pharmaceutical June 2009 to August 2009 By SAS Institute Implementation  • SAS Institute is implementing SAS Activity Based Management (ABM) models and using SAS EBI tools, SAS Management Console, SAS Data Integration (DI) Studio, SAS OLAP Cube Studio, SAS Enterprise Guide (EG), for reporting and ETL jobs from different databases. Part of the implementation team with the SAS Consultant. 8 people on SAS Implementation team  • Designed on Object Oriented principles and Developed the product using Java/J2EE technologies on SDLC and Agile Methodology  • Developed Logical Data Model (LDM), Physical Data Model in Oracle Database design for SAS ABM modeling.  • Key advisor to operational units  • Provided forecasting and planning model assistance to management and used the Planning and Budgeting (P&B) solution, to align strategic objectives with performance measures  • Managed, automated and standardized the process of consolidating financial information  • Worked on SAS Management Console, SAS Data Integration (DI) Studio, SAS Forecast Studio, SAS OLAP Cube Studio and Enterprise Guide (EG), Cognos.  • Worked on SAS Financial Management interfacing with SAS Financial Management Studio, Excel (SAS Financial Management Add-in for Microsoft Office) and SAS Information Delivery Portal  • Generated OLAP Reports in SAS Financial Management and SAS Activity Based Management.  • Created periods and scenarios.  • Created dimensions, modules and accounts.  • Defined drivers that measure the consumption of expenses and activities.  • Calculated costs and display the results.  • Defined and link external unit costs to accounts.  • OLAP Cube studio used create multistage Cubes in SAS FM and SAS ABM models  • Loaded users, user groups and user-member associations.  • Loaded reference tables and reference table jobs. SAS Consultant City of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ November 2007 to March 2008 • Involved in Implementation and coding of front end screens using Java, JSP.  • Conversion is used for making Online of City of Phoenix TAX data submission is making available City of Phoenix Customers and Business people.  • Opened Database connectivity using ODBC, JDBC and DSN networks.  • Designed Parts and Tools Data Warehouse Dimensional Model utilizing OWB 10g.  • Created OWB Repository with OWB Repository Assistant, Source Metadata definition, Staging Area metadata definition and Target definition.  • Designed ETL objects mappings, using mapping operators, transforming data with OWB using transformation operators.  • Developed business intelligence applications and SAS predictive model using SAS DI Studio and Enterprise Miner  • Involved in complete System Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and Project methodologies  • Complete production support in database design and modeling.  • Used Business objects, Designer to create adhoc reporting.  • Using SAS/Intranet, Created Content and migration of content to Intranet environment  • Data is converted using SAS ETL process from last 22 years historical data mart it has millions records in databases, DB2, VSAM.  • Supported the running of Mainframe batch jobs and interfacing with various users and/or project team members during code development and testing.  • Supported end users.  • Used SAS stat models for tax data analysis like cluster analysis and regression model building etc.  • Converted data from mainframe VSAM files to flat files using SAS, JCL on mainframe environment  • Working environment is OS/390, MVS/TSO, ISPF, JCL, COBOL, PL1, VSAM, DB2, FoxPro, UDB, SAS, Windows and MS Office MS Excel  • Wrote test scripts for the Application.  • Used Microsoft Visual Studios to write SQL queries to access the SQL Server and MS Access.  • VSAM and SQL Server files are converted to Flat files and later converted Oracle Tables, SAS Consultant Citi Group - Elk Grove Village, IL August 2006 to August 2007 • I was part of the Retail Risk Management/modeling Customer Information Management Analytic Support team, which supports ad-hoc, standard reporting and production projects. In addition to development, we were responsible for a number of standard processes that are maintained and run on a scheduled basis.  • Developed Credit risk modelling for Retails customers of Citi group.  • Wrote batch scripts for FTP using FTP and PSFTP (Secured FTP) to download the data and CSV files from UNIX to Windows.  • Created daily HTML reports using ODS SAS, Business Objects Crystal Server.  • Improved accuracy and relevance of credit card clients planning process reports and budgets reports for make high level decisions.  • From SAS jobs, developed CSV files and reported offshore progress to management with the use of Excel Templates, Excel macros, Pivot tables and functions, as well as creating daily, monthly, quarterly, Yearly reports activity onsite through the creation of a SQLServer, Teradata and MS Access databases.  • Served as liaison between sales, compensation and accounting organizations to ensure consistency in metrics and reporting standards.  • Developed a visual report writer in VB, VBA as an MS Excel add-in module.  • Developed SMIS VBA application to automate Excel and HTML reports.  • Developed an MS Access add-in module in VB, VBA to optimize Oracle SQL development from within MS Access.  • Developed a module to initiate and run standard database processes in SQL Server, Oracle, SAS Consultant Thrivent Financial for Lutherans - Appleton, WI February 2006 to July 2006 • Involved in SAS 9.1.3 Business Intelligence Configuration  • Extracted data from DB2, Teradata and SYBASE data mart using SAS SQL procedures and created SAS data sets  • Worked on different operating systems (UNIX, Windows) and on different operating systems working on Mainframes (OS390)  • Participated in designing, coding, testing, debugging and documenting Business Objects and VB.  • Wrote JCL, PL1 programs to communicate with the MVS (TSO, ISPF) operating system.  • Worked with SAS on IBM UNIX AIX 5L and Korn shell platform.  • Wrote Shell Scripts for automation of the SAS jobs.  • Extensively used SAS/ETL, Web Report Studio, and Enterprise Miner.  • Responsible for converting the business rules to SAS defense scripts  • Coded using SAS/SQL, PL/SQL to extract data from Teradata and Oracle tables  • Created SAS datasets in local SAS directory from raw data files Education Master's Additional Information Technical Summary:  SAS Tools: Base SAS 8.2, SAS 9.1.3, SAS 9.2,9.3,9.4 EBI, SAS Graph, SAS STAT, SAS ODS, SAS MACROS, SAS/SQL, SAS/GRAPH, SAS/FSP, SAS/AF, SAS/SHARE, SAS/CONNECT, SAS/EIS, SAS/SHARE*NET, SAS DI Studio, SAS WEB Report Studio, SAS Information Map Studio, Enterprise Miner, SAS/ACCESS Interface to ODBC, SAS/ACCESS Interface to OLE DB, SAS Enterprise Guide (EG) 7.1, SAS/ETL, WS FTP, WRQ Reflexion, AQUA Data Studio 8.0, TOAD DB2, Tortoise SVN, ULTRA Edit,  Database: Oracle, MS Access, Teradata, SQL Server, SQL Server Integrations Services (SSIS) FoxPro, DB2.  Languages: C, C++, Python, R, .net, C#, VB.NET, VB, VBA, SQL, PL/SQL, COBOL, PL1, JAVA, J2EE, SAP R/3 ABAP, Fortran, HTML, XML, PERL, JCL  Others: MS Office 2003, MS Excel, MS Word, MS Power Point (PP), ,JIRA, Jules, Jenkins, Maven, AIM, Lotus Notes, Crystal Reports, HTML, XML, Java Script, VB Script, PERL Script, Python Script, VB, VBA, AS/400.  Operating System: Windows 2000/NT/XP, UNIX, Linux, Mac OS, Z/OS, MVS (Mainframe), MVS/TSO, ISPF