STUDENT ASSISTANT STUDENT ASSISTANT STUDENT ASSISTANT Commerce, TX An experienced Cyber Security as well as Python Developer enthusiast who fits in any IT security or Python Developer positions. I am a collaborative individual as well as a team player who can hit the benchmarks. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience STUDENT ASSISTANT CYBER SECURITY - Commerce, TX January 2016 to December 2016 • Hands on experience in security incident by taking appropriate action using various logs.  • Performed intelligence research, analysis, and prepared reports on cyber-related matters.  • Performed penetration testing to check the vulnerabilities, open port exploitation, social engineering  campaigns, report generation on the network using Metasploit, OpenVAS, and Wireshark.  • Host and network-based Vulnerability scanning and report generation using various tools using SIEM.  • Applied system security plans SSP's and Disaster Recovery Plan DPR's to meet the baseline in network.  • Configured protective event monitoring, event management, and configuration of security tools for targeted systems. Learned various network terminologies such as APT, IDS/IPS, TCP/IP, DNS. PYTHON DEVELOPER Initiators Inc - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2014 to May 2015 Professional web application development experienced using Python and Django.  • Proficient with various DBMS like MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB.  • Good experience with python libraries such as NumPy, SciPy.  • Excellent working experience in web applications with server-side rendering using HTML, CSS.  • Combined python script with pyopenssl package and imported libraries in required modules.  • I have used SDLC like agile and SCRUM, and pep8 sets of standards for writing professional scripts.  • Used OOP concepts such as Polymorphism, Inheritance, Abstraction, and Encapsulation. Education MS in Computer Science Texas A&M University - Commerce, TX December 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology Pune University - Pune, Maharashtra June 2014 Skills DJANGO (1 year), MONGODB (1 year), MYSQL (1 year), Metsploit (1 year), OpenVAS (Less than 1 year), IDS/ IPS (Less than 1 year), Wireshark (Less than 1 year), SIEM (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year), PenTesting (Less than 1 year), Shell Script (Less than 1 year), Python (1 year), TCP/IP (Less than 1 year), OSI (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mayur-potdar-94218130/ https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6821398/ https://www.ijsr.net/archive/v3i10/T0NUMTQxNjc=.pdf https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Mayur_Potdar2 Awards Outstanding Student Employee Award 2017-01 Publications A Ubiquitous “M-Health” Application Using Android Appliances https://www.ijsr.net/archive/v3i10/T0NUMTQxNjc=.pdf 2014-10 In modern health care society we are presenting an innovative idea in the world of healthcare services in the form of ubiquitous M-Health android application. The key feature of this application is to provide vital information under one roof. This software covers the divergence between all the interconnected services in a health care center i.e. the interconnection between doctor, patient, pharmacist, insurance assistant, etc. and annals authority ( security ) for annals. The main aim of this application is to provide a user-friendly interface in stress driven situation. This application provides remote access to medical records, doctor's prescription, patient's database and patient’s insurance policy. Mainly this application focuses a health environment for the stimulus information sharing using portable android devices. In order to provide security and authentication various prospective strategies like professional authentications (user authentication) in between doctor– pharmacist-patient, patient-insurance agents are used. The main objective of this application is to diminish the gap between doctor and patient. Android "Health-Dr." Application for Synchronous Information Sharing https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6821398/ 2014-04 Android "Health-DR." is innovative idea for ambulatory appliances. In rapid developing technology, we are providing "Health-DR." application for the insurance agent, dispensary, patients, physician, annals management (security) for annals. So principally, the ample of record are maintain in to the hospitals. The application just needs to be installed in the customer site with IT environment. Main purpose of our application is to provide the healthy environment to the patient. Our cream focus is on the "Health-DR." application meet to the patient regiment. For the personal use of member, we provide authentication service strategy for "Health-DR." application. Prospective strategy includes: Professional Authentications (User Authentication) by doctor to the patient, actuary and dispensary. Remote access is available to the medical annals, doctor affability and patient affability. "Health-DR." provides expertness anytime and anywhere. The application is middleware to isolate the information from affability management, client discovery and transit of database. Annotations of records are kept in the bibliography. Mainly, this paper focuses on the conversion of E-Health application with flexible surroundings. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Language: Python, C++, C, Shell-Script, SQL,Java Knowledge of: HTML, CSS, Git.  Operating System: Windows, Mac, Kali Linux, Ubuntu, Fedora. Database: MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Framework/Tools: Metasploit, Wireshark, OpenVAS, PyCharm, Django, Visual Studio, Sublime Text.    PROJECTS:  Improving the Effectiveness of SecQR Scan - A QR Code Scanning Application. April 2017.  • Checked the vulnerabilities of the attacks - Phish Tank API and Google safe browsing API.  • QR code scanning and validation using encoding mechanism and applied JSON for object conversion.  • Blacklist validation and avoid phishing attacks against intrusion and to provide more security to QR codes.    Mini Instagram App. May 2016.  • Developed Instagram web application using Python, Django and SQL.  • I have used various NumPy, SciPy, and Pillow libraries to implement various modules.  • Mapped GET, PUT, POST, and DELETE - CRUD operations in HTTP request - response to database.    A Ubiquitous “M-Health” Application Using Android Appliances. May 2014  •Flexible connectivity to patient, doctor, pharmacist, insurance agent and path-lab using Health-Dr. App  •Homomorphic encryption is used to generate and compare results with present data   •Data Sharing using asymmetric encryption channel and data is encrypted using symmetric encryption