Application Architect Application Architect Sr. Python Developer Winston-Salem, NC Software engineer with over 10 years of experience in Application Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, deployment and Maintenance/Support for Web, Standalone, and Client-Server based Software Applications.  Rich work exposure in software development using agile methodology.  Extensive experience in Server Administration in Cloud and managed hosting environments    Learn chef framework in my spare time. Work Experience Application Architect Bank of America - Charlotte, NC August 2013 to Present Responsibilities  Haands on architect responsible for the design and development of a web-based, distributed risk modeling application built with an open source Python Flask framework to run on the banks proprietary platform across multiple lines of business. The application provides a web view and basis for various stakeholders to make better business decisions. It is backed by SQL Server and Sandra, a distributed NoSQL object data store.• Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.• Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing python's best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.• Work with team of developers on enterprise wide web applications for RISK management. • Support Application Development on Bank’s proprietary Distributed Platform. • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code    Skills Used  Python, Javascript, application integration, peer review, requirement analysis.  code analysis, application optimization Sr. Python Developer Rackspace Hosting - San Antonio, TX March 2013 to August 2013 Design and implementation of Restful web services to support rackspace internal applications. Responsibilities includes design the architecture and lead the development efforts using agile methodologies. Create API documentations for UI teams.  Environment: Python, Flask, MongoDB, Hbase, Hadoop, version one, git, Linux, rackspace cloud. Software Engineer Inmar Inc - Salem, NC July 2012 to March 2013 Design and Development of highly scalable cloud based web services API to support Inmar's digital promotion network in LAMP environment. Responsibilities also include working with client ops to resolve critical production issues supporting end clients. Working with agile team.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, JIRA, SVN, IBM Rational Clearquest, AWS, Linux. Sr. Software Engineer APS HealthCare - Columbia, MD May 2011 to July 2012 Customization of web based care management application. This application is used for requesting authorization for the medical procedures by medical providers, My responsibilities include working with business analyst to implement the technical requirement. Write python modules to implement the work flow process for the system. Configure ZOPE/ python on the local system for the development purpose. Develop various DTML documents to generate authorization request forms. Write ZSQL queries and integrate with ZOPE to communicate with MS SQL server. Integrate soap service with the middleware to handle life cycle of an authorization requests,  Environment & Tools: Python, ZOPE, SQL Server 2008, SVN, SOAP, JavaScript, XML, SVN, JIRA, Eclipse, Agile Methodology, Iterative Software Development, Object Oriented Application Development. Lead Software Engineer/Sys Admin/Lead QA Knewco Inc - Rockville, MD May 2006 to April 2011 KnowNow" is the flagship semantic analysis service of Knewco. Being part of the founding technical team of a start up, I worked on the core web services that powered the knownow. This software evolved from python based services deployed within ZOPE server using ZODB, LDAP and mysql data store to a new java/j2ee based semantic analysis services deployed in tomcat using apache LUCENE and mysql as persistent data store. System does semantic analysis of the publisher content and recognizes important concepts on the page and disambiguates them.  I consumed the data dump from umls and MeSh thesaurus and processed it along with protein and genes taxonomy like uniprot to generate proprietary thesaurus with factual and co-occurrence information about medical/life science concepts.  I developed ad-service gateway implementation to fetch contextual ads from third party ad-networks asynchronously to render on publisher page. This implementation is designed and implemented to be used as part of the suit such that one can easily add/remove any new ad network service to the system.  I have been working as software engineer/Sys admin for the various server environments including Amazon cloud and also managed hosted environment. I initiated the entire process of creating the data center environment in Amazon cloud. I was responsible for creating various EC2 instances for different needs. Based on the requirements of the resources, I chose the right AMI with right OS (Ubuntu, windows, Centos) and configured it according to the need. I also created Elastic Volumes, Security groups, elastic IPs and configured it with the cloud instances. Also, Performed System administration duties on RHEL servers, CISCO firewall and Load balancer remotely located in managed hosting and co-located facility.  As a Senior Software engineer/System Administrator, my responsibilities in this project are:  • Analyze the business problem to suggest a solution.  • As a Technical Architect, I was responsible for the detailed design of the whole system. This includes design of various components and work with agile team for implementation.  • Design and implement of various HTTP and XML-RPC Web services in python, servlets and deploy them in ZOPE and tomcat respectively.  • Design business tier in UML. Work with R&D team to develop new algorithms for performance and quality improvement of the concept recognition and disambiguation services.  • Involved in writing and reviewing JMeter test suits for load testing.  • Analyzing new opportunities for my group. This required daily interaction with CTO and business team to understand the business flow and analyze the application of technology to increase efficiency in a business work flow.  • Lead distributed QA team to develop UA Test cases to manage and roll out production releases.  Environment & Tools: Python, ZOPE, Open LDAP, Java, tomcat6.0, LUCENE, apache SOLR, JavaScript, XML, MySQL, AWS, Linux, SVN, JMETER, Agile Methodology Software Developer Decision Technologies International, Wappinger's - Falls, NY, US June 2003 to May 2006 Maintained a C++ based content management web application deployed in IIS server and customized version of SQL-ledger based application deployed in apache. Production application debugging at client site, bug analysis and resolution. Responsible for administrative duties performing on PostgreSQL database using Database modeling tools such as PgAdminIII.  Performed Administrative duties on internal postfix mail server on Slack ware Linux environment, configuration of Spam assassin for email server and carried out routing network maintenance tasks. Worked on J2EE and Python projects in an agile team to developed web based procurement management system used for supply-chain management. Developed content management and Procurement web application. The application contains various modules such as Purchase Order Manager, Procurement manager, Inventory Store Manger, Fleet Manager.  Responsibilities:  • Design and maintain Database models.  • Define technical requirements, Development and review of System Specification. Developed various UML models for the system. generated python modules from UML models using automated scripts (ArchGenXML) written in python.  • Created work-flow for procurement and asset/Inventory management process.  • Deploy and test on ZOPE App server. Wrote python modules for ZOPE application server.  • Designed and developed a JAVA based persistent manager to read XML data format and persist it in relational database using EJB.  • Developed an XML based custom reporting tool using Apache Cocoon Framework and deployed  Environment: Perl, IIS, C++, Python, Java, XML, XSLT, Python, ZOPE, Plone, Cocoon, Tomcat, Jboss, MySQL, MS SQL server 2000, Linux, CVS, Postfix. Software Developer IBM - Poughkeepsie, NY May 2001 to May 2002 Worked as team lead on IBM/Marist joint study Emmy Award Digital video library project.Developed and deployed a J2EE based Streaming media web application using Enterprise java beans (EJB), deployed on Web Sphere Application Server and ZLinux/S-390 platform. This application let users search and stream rich media contents from Darwin stream server and Video charger stream server. Designed and configured DB2 database on local system and IBM S-390 mainframe. Performed Deployment of the application and servers on S-390/Red Hat Linux. Developed database schema, wrote SQL queries and stored procedures for DB2.I also wrote Javascript, JSPs and Servlets in the client-server environment. Also exploit IBM's proprietary EMB technology, an extension of EJB.  Environment & Tools: S-390, Z-Linux, XML, EJB, J2EE, Java, WebSphere, DB2, Darwin media server, Visual Age For java. Additional Information Operating Systems Windows 2000/XP/NT, UNIX, Linux (RHEL, Ubuntu, CentOS)  Principles & Methodologies Agile Methodology, Object Oriented Application Development (OOAD), Unified Modeling Language (UML).  Frameworks/Architectures ZOPE, Plone, DJANGO, Flask, MediaWiki, MVC, SOA, H  Database MySQL, MongoDB, Hbase, Hadoop, SQL Server 2000, DB2  Language/API/Technology JAVA, Python, C, C++, PHP, Assembly Language, SQL, Java script, Servlets, JSP, JNDI, EJB, J2EE, XML, RMI, AJAX, Apache LUCENE, SOLR, AWS.SOAP  Web/App Servers Apache, Tomcat, nginx, Jetty, Websphere, JBOSS  Tools CVS, SVN, Git, TRAC, Poseiodon, ArgoUML, Toad, JMeter, JIRA, MySQLGUITools, Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio, SOAPUI, New Relic