Senior Python Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> Engineer Owner - Young Composers Cedar Grove, NJ I am a computer software architect who has experience with.Net, windows low level API programming, web scripting languages and database SQL. I stand out from most computer programmers in that I have an artistic and creative ability that enables me see things the way a client or customer would. My goal is to be immersed into an environment where my skill-sets will be highly valued. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Engineer WeWork - Chelsea, NY November 2017 to Present * Developed a script in Python to automate the imports of external data into a PostGreSQL database.  * Developed an online application in PHP that allows an end user to navigate heads of departments by sub department and region/territory.  * Created views in SQL to be connected via Tableau Server. Owner Music Jotter January 2014 to Present * Created sheet music editor software for musicians (www.musicjotter.com)  * Written in .NET and heavy use of SQL for undo, redo and settings  * In charge of SEO, marketing, distribution and sales, artwork and packaging Senior Business Analyst Toys R Us - Wayne, NJ January 2014 to Present Coded and executed web crawlers to data mine baby registry information from competitor websites. Analysis coded in Python using the Selenium library, and made use of regular expressions to parse tags.    Developed a software application in Visual Basic that imports data feeds from Oracle and MS Access into Aster on a daily basis (a fast database used for processing large data sets).  * Multiple teams relied on this process, in order to use Aster for more efficient analysis.  * We created our own centralized data warehouse, making it easy for multiple departments to get the data they needed.    Overhauled multiple VBScript automated scripts, and created one centralized codebase tool, used for an automated reporting hub. One codebase reduced the maintenance required to address problems.    Led the transition from MS Access to Aster, and mentored team on how to use Aster.    Managed a team of 2 to ensure day to day tasks ran smoothly. Senior PHP Developer/Supervisor Wilson Elser - New York, NY July 2013 to October 2013 Created a program in PHP during my first week, utilizing OOP techniques, that imports invoices into a billing vendor's database through an API.  Mentored an out of college developer with little PHP background during our first 3 weeks to automate a report using PHP. Before my mentorship, this process had been worked on since October 2012 and still had not been completed.  Learned how to query with DB2. Guided the team to make use of running scheduled jobs to execute PHP scripts to automate various tasks. Also guided the team on how to execute PHP commands in AS400. Before my mentorship, these techniques had not been made aware to the team or utilized. Associate Director UBS Financial Services - Weehawken, NJ August 2011 to July 2013 Designed a library in Visual Basic to automate AS400 tasks  This assisted with various report automation.  Data Entry Forms  Built, tested and maintained many MS Access solutions intended to facilitate day to day activities of employees.  Green Belt Mentor (Lean Six Sigma - Process Efficiency Program)  Assisted various people with their Lean Six Sigma projects by developing tools to automate inefficient and manual processes.  UBS Intranet  Used WAMP/LAMP to host a custom UBS Intranet on office PC.  Site constructed using Yii MVC framework.  The information resided in a MySQL database and fed into a local MS Access database, allowing us to create reports in excel for management. Advanced from SEM Specialist to Data Analyst LexisNexis Martindale-Hubbell - New Providence, NJ June 2006 to July 2011 Designed various applications in Access, PHP and MySQL to assist Pay Per Click Specialists with campaign uploading.  A PPC campaign could be uploaded through a formatted CSV file. The web application created this CSV file.  Utilized Access & Excel to combine reports from multiple sources, and VBA to format the results. These reports presented various website statistics, and were utilized by marketing specialists to determine client account success.  Designed and uploaded Pay Per Click marketing campaigns.  Assisted sales with questions about our PPC services.  Designed PPC campaign proposals for sales. Education Masters in Business Administration in Accounting Montclair State University Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering Stevens Institute of Technology Skills Python Links https://github.com/chopin2256/Amazon https://github.com/chopin2256/Youtube https://www.linkedin.com/in/michael-porcaro/