Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - DEALERTRACK/COX AUTOMOTIVE Albertson, NY Energetic senior engineer with years of experience in architecture, design and development of mission critical software products on both Linux and Microsoft Windows platforms. Hardworking, hands-on, and self-motivated with excellent research, analytical and problem-solving skills. Work Experience Python Developer DEALERTRACK/COX AUTOMOTIVE - North Hills, NY March 2012 to Present •Architected, designed, and implemented the Document Center (DocCenter) to be used by company-wide for creating, storing, signing, merging and printing documents. DocCenter is a RESTful API implemented using Python, Django, Django Rest Framework, Celery and RabbitMQ.  • Integrated DocCenter with the Digital Contracting workflow to sign contracts and other ancillary documents.  • Exposed the DocCenter endpoints using the Swagger Framework so that the other teams can learn how to use them in their projects.  • Designed and implemented SigningRoom for contract signing on mobile devices in AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Used a micro-service implemented in C# for databinding in one of the DocCenter endpoints.  • Designed and implemented core platform components: business domain entities, security system, middleware, database logical schema, ORM layer using Python, SqlAlchemy, and Linux.  • Architected, designed, developed, and implemented the Site Nav 1.0 project in Python and JavaScript. This has been the cornerstone for the Dealertrack redesigned workflow based F&I solution.  • Practiced Agile Methodologies and tests driven development.  • Analyzed and resolved complex problems associated with application systems especially production issues. Senior Software Engineer February 2008 to March 2012 • Redesigned DT User object, Common Partner object using entity framework for common object R2 release.  • Led a critical enhancements to the existing Common Objects session state management.  • Provided leadership and guidance to the off-shore developers working on the Fusion Common Partner implementation.  • Led the enhancement efforts to the Partner Configuration utility by materializing request from end users.  • Led the execution of the Common Objects sustained engineering strategy by coordinating knowledge transfer to the off-shore team members.  • Played a leading role in the design and implementation of the new Doc Center and services in Python.  • Delivered smaller stories in a shorter period of time in agile development environment.  • Provided technical guidance, mentoring and leadership to new hires joined the company to make sure theyhave become productive team members in a short period of time. Software Engineer July 2005 to February 2008 • Led performance analysis and improvements of the Common Objects layer (Dealer profile, Session State, MenuControl, Permission and Security, Lender profile and logging) which is the backbone for the suite of products in Dealertrack solution.  • Set the company on a path towards capacity planning using loadRunner tool.  • Redesigned Static File Manager to avoid memory issues while loading large XML files.  • Played a key role in ensuring both quality and stability of the software by load testing on each major releases of Common Objects.  • Engaged in requirement analysis, design development, implementation, and integration of Common Customer project which integrated 8 different products in DT suite reducing redundant data entry.  • Showed leadership by patiently worked with 8 different development teams in the Dealertrackcommunity in the Common Customer integration.  • Worked on highly technical exception handling of the Common Object layer.  • Worked on Agency Access project which allows agencies to access dealer screens, e-menu pages and aftermarket provider data using DT permissions and menu control system. Software Engineer (Consultant) VETERINARY RESEARCH INSTITUTE November 2004 to April 2005 • Developed a Client/Server application to manage research related activities in the Dept. of Animal Production and Health at the Veterinary Research Institute in Sri Lanka.  • Designed and developed the backend MS SQL Server 2000 database.  • Technology used .Net Framework, C# and ADO.Net. Software Engineer (Consultant) MERRILL LYNCH - New York, NY April 2004 to October 2004 • Developed and implemented a web based Global Stock Loan Rating application for Global Equity Finance Stock Lending Technology. The key functionality being addressed was trader visibility of MLPro short position at the client and security specific level and the ability for the desk to manually apply a stock loan rebate rate to a client's short position. This application has the following capabilities:  • Displayed the ML Pro Positions & Client information in a searchable/sort able format.  • Gave traders the necessary information to accurately price positions, including box securities.  • Allowed traders to apply overrides at different levels ranging from security to individual rebate group.  • Highlighted specific positions or overrides that needed their attention.  • Technology used: C#, ASP.Net, WebServices, ADO.Net, MS SQL 2000, XML, JavaScripts, HTML, DHTML, UML, Visio, IIS, Visual SourceSafe. Software Engineer (Consultant) JP MORGAN CHASE - Brooklyn, NY November 2003 to March 2004 • Project: Developed a Nostro-Account Repository for Treasury Services Technology  • Designed and developed front end to the repository.  • Developed the middleware for business services and data services using VB 6.0.  • Designed and developed the NAR Database for the Nostro-Account Repository.  • Used MS SQL 2000, DTS, stored procedures, and triggers in various data transformations. Software Engineer, Contract AJILON CONSULTANTS INC - Rochester, NY February 2003 to October 2003 • Project: Enhanced SurveySurfer web application which generated Survey Reports for Xerox Corporation.  • Developed front-end display logic using Visual InterDev, FrontPage, VB 6, Visual Studio 6, VBA, ASP, JavaScript, Excel, HTML and XML.  • Created packages, stored procedures, and PL/SQL queries for Oracle 8i backend database.  • Created Unix/Solaris shell scripts to upload data from text files to Oracle Database. Education M.S. in Computer Science Texas Tech University - Lubbock, TX Ph.D. in Physics Washington State University - Pullman, WA B.Sc. in Physics Sri Jayewardenepura University Skills PYTHON (10+ years), C# (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), ANGULARJS (6 years), DJANGO (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems: Linux, UNIX, WINDOWS. Mac.  Languages: Python, C#, VB.Net, PL/SQL.  Web: Django, DRF, AngularJS, JQuery, MVC, ADO.Net, VB.Net, JavaScript, WinForms, HTML, XML.  Servers: Apache, Nginx, NT Server 4.0, Internet Information Server (IIS).  Databases: Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MongoDB, DB2, MS SQL Server.  Open source tools: Git, Ansible, Docker, SVN, TFS, Jenkins, Jira, Confluence.  Methodologies: Agile, SCRUM, Waterfall, CMM.  Messaging: Celery, Radis, RabbitMQ, MSMQ.  Other:NumPy, SciPy, ECS ATMOS, Redis, Celery, IBM Datapower, Swagger, SiteMinder, Splunk, Sphinx, NewRelic.