Sr. Staff Engineer – Python Software Developer Sr. Staff Engineer – <span class="hl">Python</span> Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Staff Engineer – Python Software Developer Mountain View, CA Solid background in math and science; great passion for Machine Learning, Reinforcement Learning, Robotics and Computer Vision with 8 certificates so far, and will learn more; Creation of an app of "MakeMathEasy" - Mental Math Training Tests for All available on both Android Play Store and Apple App Store; Many years industrial experiences in areas of Digital Signal Processing, Cloud Client Computing, Multimedia and VoIP/FoIP; Strong skills in software development, implementation, optimization and debugging; and hands-on experience in Linux real-time embedded systems, device drivers, hardware interfacing, system bring-up, networking and distributed systems.    Self-driven, dedicated, reliable and responsible, with “can-do” attitude. Quickly learning new techniques and often creatively solving problems. Modest, easy going and respecting others. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Staff Engineer – Python Software Developer VertiSystem Inc - Santa Clara, CA February 2017 to July 2017 A pleasant though short journey. Quickly learned a lot of things including SDN, EPC, docker, VPP; wrote Python API and control code to successfully help complete a POC project; and carefully designed and coded part of a POC (in Python) using multi-threading and protected queue, preparing for adding an AI decision layer for further processing. Senior Software Engineer Dell / Wyse May 2010 to October 2016 Cloud Client Computing on Linux platforms. An enjoyable journey full of interesting projects to get involved in: algorithm development and implementation for Thin Client add-ons, Linux embedded system bringing-up, designing and developing boot loader, BIOS and UEFI secure boot, using Python Ctypes library, improving IPv6 TAHI compliance tests, finding a way to make a hardware H.264 accelerator on SoC work with Citrix Receiver SDK for Thinwire Virtual Channel and HDX HD Webcam in 2D Graphics, distributed computing, Linux streaming, redirecting USB to cloud server, debugging some USB3 webcam issues, getting deep understanding of Linux internals (kernel and user space programming), and developing native UI with Node-Webkit JS, using web technologies (CSS, HTML, JavaScript) without browsers.  Dell Champion Award (FY14, FY15), Bronze Award (FY15). Consultant VoIP and Fax Over IP January 2009 to April 2010 Customer support for VoIP and Fax Over IP products of the previous company DSP Group and consultation for their customers. Senior Software Engineer DSP Group INC October 1999 to December 2008 Involved in developing, implementing and optimizing speech coders, echo cancellation, and Fax Over IP, Voice  Over IP products on embedded systems (SIP, H.323, T.38, TCP/IP, RTP, RTCP, FXO, FXS, FSK, PSK, QAM,  TDM protocols). Senior Software Engineer Oak Technology July 1997 to October 1999 Involved in audio/video integration for a DVD product on DSP. Implemented and optimized MP3, AC3 and  MPEG2 audio decoders. Applied for patent for a new algorithm during developing a Multiple-band Parametric  Equalizer in time domain for a DSP multimedia project (simulated in Matlab and implemented in products). Software Engineer Analogical Systems July 1994 to July 1997 Implemented and optimized fixed point speech codecs G.728 and G.723.1 on various DSP chips in assembly and deepened understanding of statistical model and applications of digital signal processing in voice coding. Education MS in Biomedical Engineering California State University - Sacramento, CA 1991 to 1994 MS in Computer Engineering Chinese Academy of Science - shanghai 1982 to 1985 BS in Physics Nanjing University - Nanjing 1978 to 1982 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jianxin-liu-6a064a?trk=nav_responsive_tab_profile Certifications/Licenses Machine Learning October 2016 to Present Coursera Course Certificates License CH9YQ9NFDNQS Machine Learning Foundations: A Case Study Approach November 2016 to Present Coursera Course Certificates License THLT6FL556M9 Robotics: Aerial Robotics December 2016 to Present Coursera Course Certificates License ZPRTHDDK8HLD Robotics: Computational Motion Planning September 2017 to Present Coursera Course Certificates License 3FURJBNLJ73M Robotics: Estimation and Learning October 2017 to Present Coursera Course Certificates License 6UUTZFNU8DX9 Robotics: Perception November 2017 to Present Coursera Course Certificates License ZESJPCAM74WR Robotics: Mobility December 2017 to Present Coursera Course Certificates License CJP3A5ETYVTW Artificial Intelligence: Reinforcement Learning in Python February 2018 to Present Udemy Online Certificates License UC-9CCOW3ZB Additional Information Skills & Expertise  - C/C++, Bash, Perl, Python, Octave, NumPy, Scikit-Learn, Matplotlib, TensorFlow, CUDA  - JavaScript, Java, AngularJS, Node-Webkit JS  - Machine Learning, Neural Networks, Artificial Intelligence, Statistics, Linear Algebra  - Digital Signal Processing, Digital Image Processing, Speech/Audio Processing and Coding, Cloud Computing, and Distributed Systems  - Linux Kernel, Embedded Systems, SoC, DSP, Device Drivers, Hardware Interfaces, I2C, SPI, Multithreading, Debugging, Optimization, svn, Git