Lead Engineer Lead Engineer Lead Engineer - VG Development Professional with 15 years of experience in IT: Python, .NET, AWS, Linux, DBes, Network Security, HW Server Administration, etc   * Development: Python, .NET, Java, C++, php, perl, Bash Shell Script * AWS: EC2, S3, RDS, Glacier * Unix: OS backup and restoration, Data migration, IPMP, DISK mirroring(SVM), NTP, NFS, DNS, Mail, Jump start, ZFS volume manager, Syslog analyzing, Overall troubleshooting and escalation * Hardware / Network / Web Cloud Solutions * Web: GitHub, Apache, Tomcat, Nginx, IIS, JetBrains TeamCity, SVN Subversion * Linux (Red Hat, CentOS, Ubuntu): OS backup and restoration, Data migration, LVM, Mail, NFS, DHCP, Overall troubleshooting and escalation * Databases: MySQL, PorstgreSQL, MsSQL, Oracle Work Experience Lead Engineer VG Development 2016 to Present • Built a cryptocurrency trading platform utilizing APIs (rest + websocket) from multiple exchanges. Technology: Python + AWS + MySQL • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWSarchitecture.  • Create clean, semantic code across the entire Web stack that integrate with various systems, APIs and data sources.  • Hired and managed small scrum-based, agile development team.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS.  • Built application logic using Python, Django and PostgreSQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Developed dynamic web pages to view the reports generated utilizing Django Framework.  • By utilizing Python on Django Web Framework developed entire frontend and backend modules.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgresql DB and integrations • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Used PyCharm for programming using Python.  • Used Python for data analytics, data wrangling and extracting data using Pandas, Pyexcel, NumPyand SciPy. Software Engineer VG Development 2017 to 2018 • Involved in the Database structuring, Tables creation, writing database queries, stored procedures and functions needed for the project using postreSQL • Responsible for increase in Developers Productivity through CI pipeline automation.  • Automated Jenkins CI builds and deployment infrastructure for multiple projects.  • Involved in writing services to write core logic for business processes • Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker, Maven, Python and Bash.  • Developed web pages using, HTML5, CSS and performed client side validations • Worked on Docker container creation and running pods in Kubernetes.  • Designed complex DB systems on MySQL and Oracle DB.  • Development utilizing the core AWS services (S3, EC2, RDS). Senior Python Developer My.com US, Inc 2013 to 2016 • Build both Data Center and office netrowk infrastructures from scratch • Secured the succeful technical launch of high-load projects • Build the technical team of 3 people from scratch • Day-to-day management of 100+ production servers Senior Software Engineer Mail.Ru Group, Inc 2011 to 2013 * Managed internal and external networks.  * Installation, configuration and qualification of linux servers.  * Production support more than 100 servers.  * Implemented migration of legacy DNS services to web based solutions for easy management.  * Migrated several internal and external hosting environments to one hosting provider to decrease network fragmentation.  * Monitored and setup backup services for all new and current environments, as well as internal services.  * Collaborated with development teams and clients to understand and deliver expectations in projects involving various applications. IT Division Head Nival Online 2009 to 2011 System Engineer Nival Online 2006 to 2009 Software Engineer Bank "IBA-Moscow" 2005 to 2006 System Network Administrator Zelax 2002 to 2005 Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering Moscow Institute of Electronic Technology 2001 to 2006