Job Seeker Nyack, NY ? Over 6+ years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing various stand-alone and client-server Architectures based enterprise application software on different domains.  ? Expertise in developing web-based applications using Bash, Perl, Python, PHP, XML, DHTML, XHTML, Ajax, JOOMLA, CSS, HTML, JSON, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  ? Expertise in various Python packages such as Celery, NumPy, SQLAlchemy, Beautiful soup, Pickle, PySide, PyMongo, SciPy, PyTables, PyUnit.  ? Efficient knowledge in using different version control systems like Git, Perforce and GitHub.  ? Proficient intranet portal for managing Amazon EC2 servers using Tornado and MongoDB.  ? Expertise in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Project management tool JIRA.  ? Expertise with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka.  ? Extensive knowledge in Python, Core Java, MySQL, XSL, Oracle, UNIX and Linux.  ? Expertise in Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  ? Expertise in reporting tools like Grafana, Kibana (ELK) for setting up charts and graphs for better visual representation of test results.  ? Expertise with AWS services like S3, ELB, EBS, Auto-Scaling, Route53, Storefront, IAM, Cloud Watch, RDS.  ? Expertise in Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  ? Expertise in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP. Expertise in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java.  ? libraries such as NumPy, SciPy and Pandas for data analysis and numerical computations.  ? Proficient in web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  ? Expertise infrastructure from inhouse servers to AWS cloud. Used Docker Container, EC2, IAM, RDS, Route 53, REST API gateway and Lambda of AWS.  ? Expertise in setting up, configure, manage and scale Amazon Elastic Search cluster and used Log Stash along with Kibana (ELK Stack) for centralized logging which stores logs and metrics into an S3 bucket using Lambda functions, utilized Glacier for storage for setting up and maintenance of Auto-Scaling of AWS stacks.  ? Expertise in Python Development and Scientific Programing and using Numpy and Pandas in Python for Data Manipulation.  ? Expertise in entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Expertise with most of the web scale services on Amazon Web Services (AWS). Expertise in AWS like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS.  ? Expertise with Querying RDBMS such as My SQL, SQL server and SAS.  ? Expertise in implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django and MYSQL.  ? Expertise on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, Spyder and IntelliJ.  ? Expertise in JavaScript frameworks to replace frontend of a Flask application and began implementing a React solution.  ? Expertise with automation tools such as Puppet or Chef.  ? Expertise in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL database.  ? Expertise in design patterns such as MVC using Django, Flask and deploying application on Apache tomcat server, containerizing applications using Docker.  ? Expertise in using CI tools Hudson, Build Forge, and Jenkins for automated builds.  ? Expertise with agile development methods like agile/scrum, TDD, BDD, peer code reviews, continuous integration.  ? Expertise working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Expertise building mockups, GUI layouts by using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Expertise in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM process including Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Daily Standups and Code review.  ? Expertise in using NOSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  ? Expertise in UNIX shell scripts for business process and loading data from different interfaces to HDFS.  ? Expertise in using Scikit-Learn and Statsmodels in Python for Machine Learning and Data Mining. Work Experience Google - Mountain View, CA November 2018 to Present Mountain view, CA  NOVEMBER 2018 - Present  ? Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, AngularJs, Reactjs, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django and HTML.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using pythonFlask.  ? ETL process for continuously bulk importing catalog data from MySQL into Elastic search.  ? Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  ? Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  ? Tested and debugged the product in controlled and real situations.  ? Deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  ? Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  ? Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  ? Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  ? Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  ? Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  ? Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  ? Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster.  ? Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  ? Worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  ? Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day-to-day tasks.  ? Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  ? Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, AWS Glue Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  ? Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  ? Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed. Python Developer Tesla - Fremont, CA September 2017 to October 2018 Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Expertise in configuration management automation tools such as Chef, Puppet and Salt, Good coding experience with scripting languages like Perl, Ruby and Bash.  ? Proficient with structures, semi-structured and unstructured data, using a broad range of data science programming languages and big data tools including R, Python, Spark, SQL, Scikit Learn, Hadoop Map Reduce.  ? Proficient in Routine Linux application testing/upgrades; new product evaluation and system impact analysis. Supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL for Linux and Windows.  ? Designed recognition models for both handwritten and text-based characters capable of continuous learning using deep neural networks leveraging keras.  ? Proficient working with Bot Frameworks, IBM Watson, Google Cloud Platform/Tensor Flow, or Amazon Web Services / Sagemaker, and open source.  ? Utilized Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, SciPy, Web2py.  ? Designed RESTful Webservices using FLASK, with emphasis on improved Security for the service using FLASK-HTTPAuth with HTTPS.  ? Built Elastic search, Log stash and Kibana (ELK) to store logs and metrics into S3 bucket using Lambda function.  ? Extracted, transformed and loaded data from various heterogeneous data sources and destinations like Access, Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat files using connectors, tasks and transformations provided by SSIS.  ? Developed Business Logic using python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed SonarQube for code quality check and Nexus repository and integrated them into Jenkins to achieve Continuous Integration.  ? Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  ? Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like raceroute, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  ? Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  ? Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible  ? Recording of Scripts Web Services HTML using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods.  ? Used GO lang scripts for uploading a file to S3 and deploying them an d creating GO serverless application and deploying it to AWS lambda.  ? Worked with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/10i and MySQL databases to query and read data.  ? Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  ? Installed and configured configuration tool such as Chef Server/workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes.  ? Used Jenkins to deploy web services and run unit tests, REST API test  ? Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  ? Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI testing using Pytest and web application testing using Selenium Python bindings.  ? Proficient in specialization areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation. Automated the cloud deployments using chef, Python (boot & fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates  ? Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  ? Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web- based solutions.  ? Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  ? Built development environment with Kubernetes and Docker in AWS using JupyterHub.  ? Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  ? Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts  ? Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  ? Used Django API's to access the database.  ? Involved in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code. PYTHON DEVELOPER Amdocs - IN August 2012 to March 2015 Designed JQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  ? Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.  ? Used Go Lang to create backend servers. Developed Micro services using Go language and developed corresponding test cases.  ? Implemented SQLAlchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Application of various learning algorithms and statistical modeling like decision trees, text analytics, natural language processing (NLP), supervised and unsupervised, regression models, social network analysis, neural networks, deep learning, SVM, clustering to identify Volume using scikit-learn package in python, Mat-lab.  ? Designing and evaluating business using historical & current data from Google Analytics.  ? Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data.  ? Worked in team of developers to build and deploy Flask, Linux, and AWS.  ? Executed Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Anisole.  ? Managed worldwide data in Omniture for data collection and analysis and also worked on the library like pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Docker.  ? Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  ? Wrote with object-oriented Python, AWS,Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  ? Accessed database objects using Django Database APIs.  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  ? Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Implemented business logic using Python Web frame work Django.  Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frame works.  ? Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python.  ? Installed, configured and managed the ELK (Elastic Search, Log Facilitated Scrum ceremonies like Sprint planning, retrospectives, Daily stand-ups, etc. Stash and Kibana) for Log management within EC2/ Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) for Elastic search  ? Developed Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets.  ? Designed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Proficient in Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installing and configuring Kubernetes.  ? Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python pandas libraries.  ? Uses Edward is a Python library for probabilistic modeling, inference, and criticism. It is a testbed for fast experimentation and research with probabilistic models.  ? Designed and implemented open source AI frameworks - Pytorch, TensorFlow, Scikit-learn, Apache Open Source (Kafka, Storm, Spark) for NLP and ML Algorithms.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Used Python library NumPy Beautiful Soup for web-scraping.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  ? Utilized Python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib for generating graphical reports.  ? Worked on the development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and denormalization in MYSQL.  ? Implemented the application in LINUX environment and comfortable with all its commands.  ? Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  ? Executed MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.