Kanban , Enterprise Architect ,Git , Python Kanban , Enterprise Architect ,Git , <span class="hl">Python</span> Kanban , Enterprise Architect ,Git , Python To seek a position to utilize my skills and abilities in an organization that offers me professional and technical growth while being resourceful, innovative and flexible.    Career Abstracts    • Working in Robert Bosch Engineering and Business Solutions from Aug'07 as a Software Product Architect and consulting in enhancement and maintenance of applications.  • A result oriented professional with 11 years and 8 months of experience as a Software Product Developer and a Function Developer using Embedded System.  • Enhance productivity & efficiency of my team with well-defined team management strategy.  • Resourceful at strategizing for maximum utilization of manpower.  • Successfully completed several product build up during my stay in GERMANY and was highly appreciated    IT Proficiency Work Experience Kanban , Enterprise Architect ,Git , Python IAR , Jira , Scrum 2017 to September 2019 Tools Used: MATLAB , TPT , Eclips , G-Test , Gcov , Polyspace , IAR , Jira , Scrum ,  Kanban , Enterprise Architect , Git , Python  • Microcontroller used: Arduino  • Embedded OS: EMBOS    Description:  This project was meant to create a product which can be attached to any office working chair to track the seating position of the user and check ergonomics. Various datas exampe duration of seating , angle of push back , pressure distribution are collected from the chair and sent to user mobile phone over low energy bluetooth. Develop android/ios app to use severalveral analytics algorithm and create ussage profile and then notify user in graphical format on user mobile phone. The product primary goal was to ensure user is using the chair ergonomicaly and avoid back pain or any other side effects of non-ergonomic seating    Responsibilities:  • As a System Architect my role was to design the complete solution and system  • Take inputs from sales and marketing team to decide on features and functions  • Design function limits and boundary. Design system elements like kind of board , microcontroller , softwate development tools , communication protocol and infrastructure  • Review design implementation  • Co-ordinate with different teams Firmware team , android application team , testing team to ensure product development as per agreed system design and clarify system queries  • Define requirements and workpackages for different teams Firmware team , android application team , testing team  • Do FMEA and participate in triggered DRBFMs  • Co-ordinate with production team to keep development team ( HW and SW ) in line with production timelines    Program # 2:    • Program: HRV Thermotechnology  • Team size: 10 Specialist Embedded OS 2015 to September 2017 • Duration: 2yr ( 2015 To Sep 2017)  • Tools Used: MATLAB , TPT , Eclips , G-Test , Gcov , Polyspace , IAR ,  • Microcontroller used: NEC V850  • Embedded OS: EMBOS    Description:  HRV --> Heat recovered Ventilation product was developed to recover heat from extract air from a air tight room and deliver that heat to intake air. It also monitors humidity and air quality ( VOC/CO2)    Responsibilities:  • As a Specialist my role was to implement functionalities derived by architect in MATLAB models  • Simulate the models. Use TPT to do MIL testing.  • Generate code and integarte with base software  • Implement base component in c. write unit test and run in G-Test environment  • Ensure agreed coverage using Gcov. Ensure software quality using Polyspace , MISRA and QAC checker  • Do product configuration for ADC , I2C , EEP . NEC850 controller configuration    Program # 3:    • Program: Climate controlled Delivery Box  • Team size: 15 product Architect Embedded OS 2013 to 2015 EMBOS    Description:  For food delivery companies , develop a delivery box which is temperature controlled    Responsibilities:  • As a product Architect , i was responsible to design and develop compressor control module ( CCM ) based on an arduino board , which generates PWM signals to control compressor speed  • The CCM also takes user set temperature from a thermostat , monitors the ambient and Delivery Box temperature , communicate to a mobile phone over bluetooth using HC05-TTL module and send current GPS location using GY-NEO6MV2 GPS Module  • Design software architecture and components and interface  • Co-ordinate with different modules teams derive requirments to modules teams  • Derive Functional and non-functional system requiremnts  • Review modules design  • Co-ordinate with sales and marketing team  • Derive test scopes for testing team  • Create and maintain the Product Backlog  • Prioritize the features in the Backlog before Sprint  • Help Scrum Master organize Sprint Review Meetings    Program # 4:    • Program: AI Room Thermostat  • Team size: 8 Embedded OS 2011 to 2013 Tools Used: MATLAB , TPT , Eclips , G-Test , Gcov , Polyspace , IAR ,  • Microcontroller used: NEC V850 , Arduino  • Embedded OS: EMBOS    Description:  This project meant to create a Room Thermostat with Artificial intelligence. The Room Thermostat is an HMI , where user set the desired room temperature and future set points. The thermostart sense the room temperature and calculate heat demad for room heater (a fosil fuel based boiler / a heat pump / a electric heater ) based on user setpoints . The AI thermostat would be connected to BOSCH-Cloud and send user ussage data regularly. These user ussage data is analysed in cloud server to predict possible future ussage. It will project possible energy consuption based on current ussage pattern and notify user accordingly to fill fuel for boiler. It also predicts future service requirements of the boiler    Responsibilities:  • As a product architect i was responsible to design and develop Room Thermostat system  • Design Room Thermostat based on STM32 uc  • Design wifi interface and connect to cloud  • Co-ordinate with system architect to keep our product development inline with system requirement  • Derive product requirements and workpackages  • Do product FMEA  • Co-ordinate between HW and SW teams  • Derive Quality gates and their deadlines  • Review component designs. Co-ordinate with components owners to keep component development in line with product design  • Derive functions and limits for each unit  • Prioritize the features in the Backlog before Sprint  • Help Scrum Master organize Sprint Review Meetings    Program # 5:    • Program: MHSM Thermotechnology  • Team size: 15 Specialist Embedded OS 2009 to 2011 EMBOS    Description:  MHSM --> Multi Heat Source Module , is a product designed to take heat request from Room Thermostat / Building Automation System and control multiple Gas Boilers / Solar Heaters / Wood Boilers to deliver heat demand    Responsibilities:  • As a Specialist my role was to implement functionalities derived by architect in MATLAB models  • Simulate the models. Use TPT to do MIL testing  • Generate code and integrate with base software  • Implement base component in c. write unit test and run in G-Test environment  • Ensure agreed coverage using Gcov. Ensure software quality using Polyspace , MISRA and QAC checker  • Do product configuration for ADC , I2C , EEP . NEC850 controller configuration.  • Do DRBFM for major design changes    Program # 6:    • Program: Automotive platform demonstration  • Team size: 27 developer my role was to collect functional change requirment OpenLoop Lab Car 2007 to 2009 FLOW5, CodeWrite, XmeTal , CAN Analyser , MATLAB  • Microcontroller used: TC1796/97/66/67 (INFINEON TriCore)  • Embedded OS: ERCOSEK    Description:  This project was meant to create different vehice platforms based on cost and geography. Example low cost , Medium , Premium , South American , Asian , Europian etc. .Implement new technologies in these platfoems according to its geographical preference. For example ethanol is abudantly available in brazil so FlexFuel technology was implemented in South American platform variant. We will implement a sensor in fuel tank which will sense the amout of ethanol mix in the gasolin , accordingly it will trigger Engine controll unit to calibrate injection rate for a specific torque demand. The platforms are targeted mainly for ECU (based on TC1796/97/66/67 -INFINEON Tri Core) . After unit test , MIL , SIL , HIL , Labcar Test we do on vehicle test. After passing all the test , with a set of functionality we create platform baseline. Which then get demonstrated to different OEMs to grab regular projects for BOSCH.    Responsibilities:  • As a developer my role was to collect functional change requirment  • Analyze requirement  • Implement the design  • Do impact analysis , do DRBFM , do peer review ,  • Implement the change in c code/MATLAB model  • Integrate the changed code into platform software  • Build the platform software to generate HEX with no MISRA and build errors  • Flash and test it on ECU , test it on LABCAR    Apart From Project  • DRBFM L4 certified  • Certified FMEA moderator  • Product Engineering Champion Education BTech in Electronics and Communication Bijupattnaik University Of Technology Additional Information Operating Systems: WINDOWS , Linux  Real Time OS: ETAS-ERCOS , EMBOS  Languages: C, Embedded C, C++ , R Programming , MATLAB , Python  Micro Controller: Intel 8051, TC1796/97/66/67 (INFINEON Tri Core) , NEC V850 , ARM STM 32 , Arduino - ATMEGA ,  Raspberry PI    Communication (Bus & Protocol): CAN, SPI, UART ,EMS , MQTT  SCM Tools: eASEE, ClearCase, LWS Manager,MKS Integrity,GIT    Testing Tools: INCA, TAXI(Automated Testing), CAnalyzer, UDE2 Universal Debugger (Both Jtag and SW Debugger), ECU (Engine Control Unit) , Unit testing , Integration testing Testing in Lab Car (Both Open Loop and Closed Loop),EMS(Energy Management System ) , Robot Framework Automated Testing  Quality Tool: QAC (MISRA Checker), LIFE , Polyspace , Bouhouse  PQSR , Sonar Cube  Resource Measurement: MARS, WinRTM  Auto Code Generation: ASCET-SD , MATLAB Simulink  Software Simulation: ASCED-RS , Simulink  Software Development: Jenkins , JIRA , R4J , Eclipse , Enterprise Architect  Task Flow and Review: RADAR, FLOW5, ClearQuest  System and Technology: IOT , Machine Learning , Artificial Intelligence , MQTT ,  IFTT