Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Cox Automotive Atlanta, GA • Over 4 years of IT experience in developing and deploying projects with Python and frameworks such as Flask/Flask using one or more of MySQL, HTML, JavaScript, MVC-AJAX, Linux (Unix).  • Extensive knowledge in Python, Flask, PHP, MYSQL, UNIX and Linux.  • Good Knowledge Objected Oriented Concepts, Standard Template Library, Smart Pointers, Data Structures and Design patterns.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Flask, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, Python STL, Flask, UI and web development  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, S3 Amazon SQS.  • Designed the frontend of the application using Python 2.7, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics and Excel data extracts.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object-Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Experience in using Jenkins/Hudson as a Continuous Integration server to configuration  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experienced in working with server-side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns. Work Experience Python Developer Cox Automotive - Atlanta, GA July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings and follows agile methodology.  • Using OPPS concept using python programming concept.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed rich user interface using Flask framework.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Wrote scripts in Python for Extracting Data from JSON and XML files.  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Utilized Active Record eager loading to improve rendering time of index pages, incorporated up/down voting, reviewing, and several custom sorting methods for shows to provide smooth user experience.  • Supported the development of BI portal with development in SQL.  • Implementation exposure on service based, SOAP, RESTful technologies.  • Used Python IDE's such as Pycharm, sublime text for developing the code and performing unit test and SIT.  • Experience in smoke testing, end to end testing, regression testing, integration testing, staging, testing, staging with a production schemas, production testing, dry run, black box, white box.  • Extensive experience in implementation of change request process and defect management process  Experience developing and testing dynamic, database-driven applications with web interfaces  • Hands on knowledge of System-integration, functional, regression and end to end testing  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Flask REST framework.  • Performing Functional testing, regression testing, integration testing, and communication testing.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Flask.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using python2.7 and its familiar framework Flask Python Developer Optum - Minneapolis, MN June 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Provided Database Administration support for high volume production Oracle 11g, 12c Databases.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Flask framework. Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Flask's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Flask creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Created data frames in particular schema from raw data stored at Amazon S3, lambda using PySpark.  • Experience in smoke testing, end to end testing, regression testing, integration testing, staging, testing, staging with a production schemas, production testing, dry run, black box, white box.  • Extensive experience in implementation of change request process and defect management process  Experience developing and testing dynamic, database-driven applications with web interfaces  • Hands on knowledge of System-integration, functional, regression and end to end testing  • Experience with Robot Framework Testing with Cisco Boxes like Juniper boxes, Vnf Ethernet  • Decent experience in UNIX in developing the application and familiar with all its commands.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Flask REST framework.  • Performing Functional testing, regression testing, integration testing, and communication testing.  • Created and implemented SOA services utilizing SOA programs  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server(TFS).  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Flask 1.7, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, RIDE, REST, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS). Python Developer Link Pack Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Flask Web Framework.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python, Flask, Vugen, SoapUI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, Agile. Education Master's in computer science in computer science University of Massachusetts Dartmouth - Dartmouth, MA Skills Amazon web services, Git, Html, Bootstrap, Python, Flask, Numpy, Pandas, Svn, Xml, Database, Mysql, Css, Dhtml, Tomcat, Web services, Apache, Linux, Ec2, Jira Additional Information Technical Skills    Primary Languages: Python, Java, C  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, Java Script  Frameworks Bootstrap, Flask  Database Sqlite3, MSSQL, MySQL  IDE's PyCharm, Eclipse, PyDev  Servers Apache Tomcat, XAMPP  Deployment tools Amazon Web Services (EC2)  Operating systems Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, Pandas data frame, urllib2  SDLC Methods SCRUM, Agile  Bug Tracking Tools JIRA  Version Controls SVN, Github, Git, BitBucket