Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - ADESA • Overall 3+ experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, CSS, HTML, JavaScript.  • Expert knowledge and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience in Django, Python web frameworks, Object Oriented programming (OOPS) concepts using python and Django.  • Experience using various version control systems like GitHub, SVN, CVS.  • Hands on experience with installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat server  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server-side applications Django and Flask  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, Pycharm, Eclipse, NetBeans  • Strong experience with frontend technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, NodeJS, BackboneJS and good knowledge in ReactJS, EmberJS.  • Strong hands on experience in developing the Enterprise and Web applications on N-tier Architecture using Java/J2EE and java-based technologies such as Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, Spring, EJBs, Struts, JNDI, Webservices, XML, JPA, JMS and JDBC.  • Experience in writing numerous test cases using JUnit framework. Expertise in developing dynamic web pages in HTML with AngularJS for UI and developed single page application by using AngularJS.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with AWS (Amazon Web services).  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MongoDB, MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest and Unittest  • Experience in using Docker, Kubernetes and Ansible to fully automate the deployment and execution of the benchmark suite on a cluster of machines.  • Hands on Experience with parallel computing, multithreading, Experience with JSON based REST Web services  • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java Full stack web development using Python.  • Extensively used SQL, Numpy, Pandas, and Spark for Data Analysis and Model building. Work Experience Python Developer ADESA - Carmel, IN September 2018 to Present Description: ADESA, Inc. provides whole car auctions and related services to the vehicle remarketing industry in North America. The company also offers value-added services, such as auction related, transportation, reconditioning, inspection, title and repossession administration, remarketing, vehicle research, and analytical services, as well as data as a service.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration  • Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application. Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Used Salt Stack to configure and manage the infrastructure.  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Extensively involved in infrastructure as code, execution plans, resource graph and change automation using Terraform. Managed AWS infrastructure as code using Terraform.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Worked on implementing microservices triggered by Kubernetes nodeport.  • Developed file cleaners using Python libraries and made it clean.  • Worked on MVC architecture using PHP, Python as controller.  • Build numerous Lambda functions using python and automated the process using the event created.  • Created an AWS Lambda architecture to monitor AWS S3 Buckets and triggers a thumbnail create event whenever a user uploads a new picture.  • Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like raceroute, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  • Worked on packages like socket, REST API, Django.  • Hands on experience in migrating Business from a physical data centre environment to AWS.  • Experienced in setting up EC2 instances, security groups and Setting up databases in AWS using S3bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Performed S3 buckets creation, policies on IAM role based polices, MFA and customizing the JSON template  • Automated various service and application deployments with ANSIBLE on CentOS and RHEL in AWS.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Analyzed The SQL scripts and design the solution to implement using PySpark  • Read the Parquet and CSV files from S3 after applying the business logic and upload the output back to S3 using Pandas and PySpark  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Done Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling and process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the jobs using shell scripting.  • Understanding of secure-cloud configuration, CloudTrail, cloud-security technologies (VPC, Security Groups, etc.) and cloud-permission systems (IAM).  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web applications with Kubernetes logs and Splunk logs  • Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.    Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, AWS, HTML,Amazon Web Services (AWS), Cloud Environment, Lambda, Dynamo DB, Python 3.7.2, Django, API Gateway, Spark,Shell Scripting, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, CloudWatch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. Python Developer Puget Sound Energy,Bellevue,WA - Bellevue, WA November 2017 to September 2018 Puget Sound Energy, Inc. operates as a regulated electric and natural gas utility company in the United States. The company engages in the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity; and distribution of natural gas.  Responsibilities:  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  • Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day to day tasks.  • Extensive usage of SQL Profiler and Analytics for query optimization and maintenance.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Used web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Integration of data storage solutions using Django ORM system for MongoDB.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Collaborated with team of QA to build and populate DB and to ensure the standards.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Wrote shell scripts for setting up Spark configuration for reading files from S3 at run time  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  • Scheduled, deployed and managed container replicas onto a node cluster using Kubernetes.  • Developed and Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Maintained solutions for using Docker, Kubernetes, Ansible, Jenkins and Git for micro services and continuous deployment.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug,  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.    Environment: Python 3.4,2.7, Django 1.9/1.7,Java 1.7, SQL, Java Script, Linux,Kubernetes, Shell Scripting, Mongo DB HTML, Angular JS, Eclipse JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Spark, Bootstrap,Amazon s3, AWS. Python Developer AIthinkers - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Designed and Developed the REST style web services using Python and Flask, Postgres Database.  • Wrote complex SQL queries and PL/SQL functions.  • Developed the Command Line Interface (CLI) tool for Red hat Linux.  • Used Python's XML parser architectures (SAX) and DOM API for tracking small amounts of data without requiring the DB.  • Created the Linux Services to run REST web services using Shell script.  • Build the RPM Package for the Product with the upgrade features support.  • Design and developed the test cases for REST API, Involved REST API test framework development.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping  • Design and develop the test cases for CLI automation using Python.  • Involved in Unit testing and developed the unit test cases using Pyunit framework.  • Used Jenkins to deploy web services and run unit tests, REST API test.  • Worked on network subnet, VLAN's and Routers.  • Involved in automation of creations of VLAN, Trunk port and Routing.  • Create branch and Commit the code changes to Master branch using SVN version control and commands in Linux.    Environment: Python, Java, PL/SQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript Skills C++, DJANGO, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, PYTHON, FLASK, MATPLOTLIB, NUMPY, MYSQL, ORACLE, PL/SQL, POSTGRESQL, SQL, CSS, SOAP, JAVA, jQuery, BUGZILLA, JIRA, LINUX Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Programming Languages: Python-3.7.2& 2.7, C, C++, UML (design), Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Python Libraries: Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables, pdb  • Frameworks: Django, web2py, pyramid, Flask,  • Databases: Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB,  • CloudTechnologies: AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3.  • BugTrackingTools: Jira, Bugzilla, Rational.  • Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SNMP, SMTP, REST.  • Methodologies: Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  • OperatingSystems: Linux, Unix, Windows.