Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Office Depot Work Experience Python Developer Office Depot - Boca Raton, FL June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Expertise in developing full stack Python web framework with an emphasis on simplicity, flexibility, and extensibility.  • Developed Restful Microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2  • Worked on Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Python Object Oriented Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with MySQL, NoSQL and Mongo DB.  • Expertise in developing consumer-based features and applications with Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Linux AWS.  • Designed the data models to be used in data intensive AWS Lambda applications which are aimed to do complex analysis creating analytical reports for end-to-end traceability, lineage, definition of Key Business elements from Aurora.  • Experience in Error handling, Debugging, error logging for production support in SSIS.  • Experienced in Extracting, Transforming and Loading ETL data from Excel, Flat file, Oracle to MS SQL Server by using BCP utility, DTS and SSIS services.  • Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data from various time frame and division using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy & BottlePy framework.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Used GIT for the version control.  • Worked on developing Restful endpoints to cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like REDIS and exposed them with Restful endpoints.  • Experience in designing, configuring, deploying SSIS packages and providing security for packages.  • Written Programs in Spark using Scala and Python for Data quality check.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Written and executed complex T-SQL queries using SQL Server Management Studio for back end data validation testing.  • Virtualized the servers using Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs, also configuration automation using Docker containers.  • Experience in creating Docker Containers leveraging existing Linux Containers and AMI's in addition to creating Docker Containers from scratch.  • Trained extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum stand ups, discussing and implementing requirements with clients.  • Responsible for React UI and building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Worked on several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy and matplotlib and was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter libraries. Python Developer Bayer August 2017 to May 2018 NJ  Responsibilities:    • Used PyOt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements along with that Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters, in addition to that performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Good in developing Dynamic jQuery grids and Call Web Services from the study design using MVC Framework.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript (jQuery)  • Good Experience in C/C development of multi-threaded applications in a Linux Environment.  • Design and develop streaming data processing and data services using Kafka, Spark streaming.  • Managing content population and deployments through Django CMS.  • Used Cloud Trail, TESSA, Cloud Passage, Check Marx, Qualys Scan tools for AWS security and scanning.  • Expertise in creating and developing applications for android operating system using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, SQLite, Java, XML, and ADT plugin.  • Created ETL process using SSIS to transfer data from heterogeneous data sources.  • ETL implementation using SQL Server Integration Services SSIS, Reporting Services SSRS.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Used Cloud Trail, TESSA, Cloud Passage, Check Marx, Qualys Scan tools for AWS security and scanning.  • Performed web testing automation using selenium API.  • Responsible for Creating and Modifying T-SQL stored procedures/ triggers for validating the integrity of the data.  • Migrate the libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's.  • Worked with hundreds of database records daily, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Automated most of the daily task using python scripting.  • Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installed and configured Kubernetes  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Created a Python based GUI application for Freight Tracking and processing.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and AngularJS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Backend scripting/parsing using Perl and Python. Python Developer Accenture - Pune, Maharashtra July 2015 to June 2017 Pune  Responsibilities:    • Developed an analytics system using Memcached, Cassandra along with that performed Python scripting using the pyodbc module to select daily .xlsx files and then to read and connect those files onto access.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users and Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Use of Python Frameworks for data analysis including SQLAlchemy.  • Contribute to design and development of application features.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Developed several Python administrative scripts to automate project deployment process.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Expertise SVN as the version control tool for the Code to commit and fetch.  • Used Core Java and J2EE for developments and Modified ANT scripts to build the JAR, Classes.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Involved in developing Login, Registration, Logout, Listeners, JSP's  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django Redis and other applications.  • Implementing customer data collection with PySpark analytics.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Manage run-time configuration, processes, scaling, backup and recovery, monitoring, and performance tuning for production MongoDB instances.  • Automated the cloud deployments using chef, Python and AWS Cloud Formation Templates Education Master's Skills AWS (3 years), DJANGO (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), SCRIPTING (3 years), SQL (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: Python .C/C++, Core Java, Shell Scripting, Scala.  Python Technologies: Django, Flask, Tornado, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, SciPy.  Application/Web Server: Oracle WebLogic, HTML, DHTML, AngularJS, Tomcat, Apache, JCSS, Maven, Django, NumPy, ASP.Net, Kubernetes.  Development Tools: AWS, Docker, Selenium, Sublime Text, Eclipse, Jenkins, Coverity.  Databases: Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and NoSQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  Testing Tools: Selenium and Jira  Methodologies: Agile (Scrum), Waterfall.