Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - American Express • Having 5 years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, C++, DHTML, Java, JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS.  • Experience in IT industry with proficiency in Analysis, Design & Development Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development using, Python, Django, Flask and SQL projects.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Hands-on experience in relational database connections like DB-API connection management and query-based access to databases like PostgreSQL and MySQL in Python.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, Spyder, Studio, and Sublime Text.  • Experienced in all facets of full CM process with tools such as SVN, GIT, PVCS, Clear Case, Clear Quest, Perforce, Cruise Control, Jenkins, Bamboo, Chef and Puppet.  • Sound experience in Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Experience in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid for developing web applications.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1), Kubernetes and Mongo DB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DBF net.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, PCI, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, Data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Strong experience in Big data, Bigdata Integration and Analytics technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, Kafka, Storm.  • Experience in software development in Python (libraries used: Turtle, Tkinter, Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Python-twitter, Pandas data frame, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm.  • Experience in working with Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, AWS identity and access management, AWS Cloud watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon Cloud front.  • Experienced in Backend applications using Python/Flask/Django and SQL/ PostgreSQL. Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Experience in developing applications using agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD. Worked on various operating systems Windows XP/7/8/10, UNIX and Linux.  • Experienced with integration of MongoDB and Casandra databases, Python open stack API's.  • Experience in various environments such as: Python, Django, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting.  • Experience with JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  • Expertise in setting up, configure, manage and scale Amazon Elastic Search cluster and used Log Stash along with Kibana (ELK Stack) for centralized logging which stores logs and metrics into an S3 bucket using Lambda functions, utilized Glacier for storage for setting up and maintenance of Auto-Scaling of AWS stacks.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins and Hudson by installing, configuring and maintaining for the purpose of continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Ability to build deployment, build scripts and automated solutions using scripting languages such as Shell scripting (kasha, Bash), Python, Ruby, PHP PERL.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience in working with deployment tools like AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Jenkins, Ansible, Docker and Kubernetes.  • Hands on experience with tools Git/GitHub, Ansible, Artifactory, Jenkins, OpenStack, Balance, Node-Proxy, VMWare, and Open Source software to build automated testing and delivery pipelines. Working Knowledge of Pandas, NumPy, SciPy. Good working knowledge of Deep Learning Python libraries. Work Experience Python Developer American Express - New York, NY April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications with Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Developed Chef Cookbooks to install and configure Apache Tomcat, Jenkins and deployment automation.  • Used NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib libraries for n-dimensional representation of data and plotting graphs.  • Achieved business process automation via applications developed using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • ETL process for continuously bulk importing catalog data from MySQL into Elastic search, wrote python scripts to perform CRUD operations on MySQL database.  • Involved in Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile SCRUM meetings. And monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Developed Restful Microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application. Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all of the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web and also worked with selenium and Mockito.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) using JavaScript frameworks like ReactJS and Angular2.  • Refactored existing batch jobs and migrated existing legacy extracts from Informatica to Python based micro services and deployed in AWS with minimal downtime.  • Involved in service based RESTful technologies and used Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, NetBeans, Spyder and IntelliJ. Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries NUMPY.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  • Implemented SOAP using web services to interact with various devices to pull real-time data on the network.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Build highly available content distribution sites by using CI/CD tools like Chef, Ansible, Docker, Maven, Jenkins, Jira, Kubernetes etc.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers. Scheduled, deployed and managed container replicas onto a node cluster using Kubernetes.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Exposure to the real time implementation of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning conducted by a Software Firm.  • Developed a web application (self-service portal) using Python, Flask, Flask RESTful, Vue.JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, POSTGRESQL database. These portal enables users for requesting Namespace(storage) and Server provisioning.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. Also, used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Created SQL loader Scripts to load data into the temporary staging tables. Scripted PowerShell reports to check for user account audit compliance. Python developer Bank of America - Manhattan, NY October 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software  Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based scheme.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for the database.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection and open stack to provision new machines for clients.  • Defined different Django API profiling techniques for faster rendering information.  • Used Ansible, Vagrant, and Docker for managing the application environments.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events.  • Developed Restful Microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using python Django framework with Angular.js and Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Involved in tokenizing the sensitive data before archiving in AWSS3 using based Enterprise Tokenization service and encrypting the data before sending it over wire to external systems.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like NumPy, matplotlib.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and UNIX shell scripting.  • Monitoring Python scripts run as daemons in the UNIX/Linux system background to collect trigger and feed arrival information. Helped calculating SLA misses.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Worked on Creating Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations, data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Used GIT as Source control repositories with regular code reviews and pull/merge requests. Prototyped an augmented reality solution in the form of a video using Premiere Pro, Pylatte and Python, Git Adobe After Effects.  • Implemented the Spring MVC architecture. Worked on Restful API development using Jersey API. Worked on different J2EE Design Patterns such as Factory Pattern and Singleton. Created User Interface screens using HTML, AJAX, CSS, Java script. Python Developer HSBC - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS) and worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Used spark SQL and spark data frame extensively to cleanse and integrate imported data into more meaningful insights.  • Used Django frame and MYSQL for the backend work post sales, customer feedback and complaint management system.  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, and IIS.  • Coded various business process methods required for creation of Web Services related to customer information and provider information, using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS, REST web services.  • Worked with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, Report Lab, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Developed high-performance distributed queueing system, Redis, Akka, closure, MQ messaging, Json Developed new functionality for interactive healthcare system.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, NodeJS, AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4, Wire-Framing and HTML5.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4, Adobe flash.  • Created new JSP views to incorporate backend functionality to display on the UI screens using client rich technologies like jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS files.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQL Alchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMware API calls.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MySQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.