Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Centier Bank ? 3+ years of experience as a Python Developer and object-oriented programming (OOP) coding with Python, Flask, AWS, SQL.  ? Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)-Waterfall, Agile Process across various workflows (Requirement study, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance) in Web & Client/Server application development.  ? Extensive experience in developing web applications using Python, Django, Flask frameworks.  ? Experience in working with several python libraries including Beautiful soup, NumPy, matplotlib, SciPy, PyQt.  ? Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, PySpark, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, asyncio, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, PostgreSQL for database connectivity)  ? Hands-on experience with industry-standard IDEs like PyCharm, Jupyter Notebook.  ? Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like PostgrSQL.  ? Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  ? Experience in using XML, SOAP, REST web Service for inter operable software applications.  ? Good knowledge of version control software Git and GitHub  ? Experience in Agile development processes ensuring rapid and high quality software delivery.  ? Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  ? Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Work Experience Python Developer Centier Bank - Whiting, IN October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed and designed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to interact with company's website.  ? Successfully implemented Flask framework to design server applications.  ? Wrote Python code and actively participated in the procedure to automate processes.  ? Build and test functionality within a production pipeline.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Flask Web Framework.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Used Flask configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python, Flask, Python SDK, AWS, PyQuery, Apache Web Server, Git Hub, MySQL, LINUX. Python Developer Goelzer Investment - Indianapolis, IN September 2017 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Involved in MVC architecture using Django for web-based application in OOP concepts.  ? Developed a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  ? Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Used Angular.JS built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  ? Using Git tool to coordinate team-development  ? Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  ? Involved in writing SQL queries implementing functions, triggers, cursors, object types, sequences, indexes etc.  ? Conducted weekly meetings with the development and testing team to relay any changed requirements and updates on the development and testing.  Environment: Python, Django, MS SQL Server, HTML, XHTML, Bash, SOAP, REST, Python libraries. Python Developer Sunera Technologies - IN June 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Flask Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, PYQT, XML, JSON, HTML, XHTML, JSON, Rest, PHP, SVN, MY SQL, Windows and LINUX. Skills DJANGO, Git, PYTHON, FLASK, POSTGRESQL