Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Comerica Bank San Jose, CA • Over 4+ years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python.  • Experience in Python Development using Python3.x/2.x, Pycharm and Django.  • Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django, Flask and PHP.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Understanding of how to use network protocol analysis using a tool like Wireshark and Windump.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Good experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Spyder and PyDev.  • Experience in python packages such as NumPy, matPlotlib, Pandas, SciPy, Pickling and JSON.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, JQuery, JSON and Javascript, CSS, Node.js, Bootstrap.  • Experience in managing datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Experience implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django and MYSQL.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular.js, JavaScript, Python and Django.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new knowledge. A person with multi-tasking and organizational skills and high ethical standards.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Comerica Bank - Dallas, TX August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python/Linux test beds.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Worked in Python on a SQL database.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Conducted weekly meetings with the development and testing team to relay any changed requirements and updates on the development and testing.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Flex, PyUnit, AWS, XML, Node.js, JIRA, Angular.js, Pandas, Apache, JSON, Rest, Git, UML, SQL, Windows and Linux. Python Developer Black Knight Financial Services, FL June 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Coding in Python (Linux, MySQL) environment.  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from CSV files.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Set up rules and policies with a Node.js/ Python back end.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Developed Python Script for moving files from drop box to AWS.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Worked with Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code  optimization.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).    Environment: Python, Django, PyQT, Panda API, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GITHub, MYSQL, Jira, agile and Windows. Python Developer JC Penney - New York, NY September 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Pandas package to retrieve and analyze data.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in Postgre SQL.  • Participated in multiple sprint cycles, addressing requirements for UI development.  • Used decorators, list comprehensions, functional programming, unit tests, multiple staging environments, and global team remote collaboration.    Environment: Python, Django, C++, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Github, MySQL, Apache Web Server, Linux. Software Engineer Infor Global Solutions - IN June 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Use Git for version control.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills C++, Django, Git, Html, Javascript