Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Sunnyvale, CA Work Experience Python Developer Integra Technologies LLC - Wilmington, DE August 2018 to July 2019 -Enhanced and maintained Python framework and performed migration changes from Python 2 to Python 3.  -Assisted in architecture & deployment tasks in back-end web development including automation testing, database maintenance & documentation  -Documented key aspects of project for client and work guidelines for Customer Relationship Managers.  -Collaborated with team members, identified impact of changes and provided inputs to project schedule. Software Developer Kal-Yug Technologies - Pune, Maharashtra April 2014 to May 2015 - In capacity as SD for a start-up, the role was versatile including development and maintenance of website and backend servers.  - Responsible for management of SQL-based server and databases related to inventory management for the company.  - Participated in planned troubleshooting, turnaround support and performance optimization for website and software. Product Engineer IDeaS - A SAS Company - Pune, Maharashtra August 2012 to 2014 - Performed server clustering and load balancing and database management using MySQL and Revenue Management Service tool.  - Performed quantitative analysis and anomaly detection using price parameters for preventing data failures.  - Installation and maintenance of our product Revenue Management Systems on client side.  - Generated predictive models & price prediction using consumer data using SAS Analytics Big data platform in a B2B environment.  - Provided Best Available Rates to hospitality clients and vendors by running queries using MySQL on SQL servers.  - Used Salesforce Workbench to do work mitigation, workflow management and task distribution within the company.  - Direct client interaction in case of issue resolutions and initial setup stages. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Software Engineering ROCHESTER INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - Rochester, NY May 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology in Information Technology MAHARASHTRA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING - Pune, Maharashtra May 2011 Skills Html, Python, Flask, Ggplot2, Matplotlib, Numpy, Opencv, Pandas, Mysql, Sql, Mongodb, Css, Tableau, Java Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ajinkya-kolhe https://github.com/ajinkyakolhe Additional Information SKILLS  Technical Skills: Python, MongoDB, Java, MySQL, SQL, R, HTML/CSS, Salesforce, APIs, Tableau  Strong logical & analytical aptitude, adaptive listener, Interpersonal skills.  Python libraries: Matplotlib, Tweepy, BeautifulSoup, Flask, Scikit-learn, TensorFlow, Matplotlib, ggplot2, Seaborn, OpenCV, Pandas, Numpy.