Full stack Developer Full stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full stack Developer - BCBS Chicago, IL • 5+ years of experience in systems analysis, design, development and implementation of Web Applications.  • Experienced in Full stack application development using Python 3.x, Python 2.7, Django, Flask, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, TypeScript, Vue.js.  • More than 5 years of experience in Python and Python Frameworks/libraries.  • Experienced in web UI design and interface development using HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Experienced in developing web applications using Full stack frameworks such as Django and Flask.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Worked on version control systems such as Git and GitHub.  • Worked with SOAP and REST architecture for information exchange.  • Experienced with ORM's such as Django and SQL Alchemy, database design and normalization.  • Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments (IDE's) like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD  • Experienced in Test Driven Development and Unit Testing using Python.  • Experienced with AWS Code pipelines and other AWS services such as EC2, S3, RDS, Lambda, Cloud formation scripts and Jenkins, IBM UrbanCode deploy etc for automatic deployment and integration of applications.  • Worked with container technologies such as Docker and orchestration tools such as Kubernetes.  • Deployment of developed web applications and configuring of web server tools such as Apache and Nginx for hosting the applications.  • Worked on various Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, VS Code and Atom.  • Maintained and written detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Linux and macOS environment. Work Experience Full stack Developer BCBS - Chicago, IL November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed various web applications for automation and self-service portals using Python, Django, Flask, Vue.JS, Typescript, HTML, CSS.  • Developed a web application using Python, Django, Vue.JS, TypeScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Oracle Database etc. This application enables IRM team to scan all databases for PII/PCI data and centralized location for the reports.  • Used Django REST framework to develop the backend and to handle the REST calls with Guardium.  • Built database schema and optimized/ tweaked SQL queries for better performance.  • Developed mocha and chai test cases for testing purpose before any changes are committed to Github.  • Developed applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages and Used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Built pipelines in Jenkins and IBM UCD for automatic deployment of application.  • Wrote python unit test cases for testing the backend code.  • Developed a web application (self-service portal) using Python, Flask, Flask RESTful, Vue.JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, POSTGRESQL database. These portal enables users for requesting Namespace(storage) and Server provisioning.  • Used Flask RESTful for processing the REST calls with Dell EMC ECS and Networker products.  • Developed front-end of the application using Vue.JS, Typescript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.  • Integrated this website to be used with HP Operations Orchestration tool.  • Developed a Django Web application which is used to track the skillset of the employees.  • Developed front-end using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.  • Built Docker container for this application and deployed it as a Docker container along with a Nginx container to serve it.  • Managed and reviewed Hadoop log file and worked in analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using PySpark.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery. Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Developed individual web applications using Flask and Flask RESTful, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.  • Deployed applications in their respective servers using Apache webserver.  Environment: Python, AWS, EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, PyCharm, Selenium IDE, JQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Web Services, Pandas, JSON, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Jinja, Flask, MongoDB, SQL Workbench. Full stack Developer DTCC - Tampa, FL February 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications using Python Django Framework.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Involve in the development of the application using Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.  • Built application logic using Python 3.4/2.7. Used Django APIs for database access. Use the Model View Controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and Business logic implementation.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria, Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured complex Apache configuration files.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Writing Python scripts with Cloud Formation templates to Automate installation of Auto scaling, EC2, VPC, and other services.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Experience with working on Linux server.  • Used PyChecker for testing code.  • Responsible for build and deployment automation using VM Ware ESX, Docker containers and Chef.  • Worked on a resulting report of the application and Tableau reports.  • Configured and used ELK Stack for log management.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  • Used HTML, SASS, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript to create UI for the website.  • Used Javascript and Ajax for more interactive web pages. Ensured quality versioning data modeling and data import and export.  • Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.6, HTML, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, SCSS, AJAX, JIRA, Oracle SQL Server, SQL, MongoDB, JavaScript, Git, GitHub Python Developer CDS Global - Austin, TX May 2017 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Worked in comprehending and examining the client's business requirements.  • Used Django frameworks and Python to build dynamic webpages.  • Developed tools for monitoring and notification using Python.  • Enhanced the application by using HTML and JavaScript for design and development.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object-oriented class-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Created MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash and worked in tandem with the Flash developer to obtain the correct data through query string  • Involved in designing database Model, API's, Views using python to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Implemented a module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance using python.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  • Improved the Data Security and generated report efficiently by caching and reusing data.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python-MySQL connector and retrieved information using MySQL dB.  • Recorded the online users' data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using Pytest.  • Developed the application using the Test-Driven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system,  • Maintained and Updated the application in accordance to the clientele's requirement  Environment: Python 3, Django 1.6, Tableau 8.2, Beautiful soup, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, Backbone JS, Restful Web services, Apache spark, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB. Python Developer TBSS - IN July 2014 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed a tool in python to collect data on WLAN Controller, submit to SPLUNK for analysis and do root cause analysis, proactive user experience monitoring and dynamic alerting using MVC, Web Frameworks (Django), MongoDB  • Automating Tasks and scale systems by developing automatic test cases, building frameworks  • Developed using object-oriented methodology a dashboard to monitor the all network access points and network performance metrics using Django, Python, MongoDB, JSON  • Developed application for monitoring, root cause analysis and management of WLAN data by parsing log using Python Django, MongoDB and creating JSON format  • Developed Python feature for parsing data from logs, alerts, network dump and create a analysis matrix to display  • Experience reading C++ code, understanding it and debugging the C++ code  • Application developed parses information from logs and provides analysis of data by mapping to information in database to provide analysis for proactive monitoring and alerts  • Interacted and communicated across multiple team and to discuss requirements, design aspects of application  • Used web2py, SQLALCHEMY, flask and MongoDB for developing proactive analysis application  • Testing, Debugging and fixing issues related to Automation framework  • Analyzing the data flow from Network and on Mobile devices for various configuration  • Developing XML based Test cases and Use cases for testing multiple Scenarios  Environment: Python, C++, XML, SQLALCHEMY, Flask, Django, MongoDB, Linux, PostgreSQL, Network TCP/IP, UDP, WLAN Controller, L2/L3 Networking Skills VISUAL STUDIO, AMAZON WEB SERVICES, Cucumber, DJANGO, DOCKER Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Python, TypeScript, JavaScript, SQL, Bash scripting.  Web Frameworks Django, Flask, Vue.js  Databases Oracle, MYSQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, MongoDB  Testing Tools Pytest, unit test, Cucumber  Version Control GIT, GITHUB  Cloud and Big Data Amazon web services (EC2, S3, RDS, Glue, Lambda, Kinesis), Apache Hadoop, Spark, Splunk  CI/CD Tools Jenkins, Urban Code Deploy, Docker, Kubernetes, Ansible  Operating systems UNIX, MS Windows, LINUX.  Development Tools/IDE's Sublime Text, Jet Brains Pycharm, Visual Studio Code, ATOM  Package Manager Tools Pip, pipenv, yarn, npm