Lead Python Developer (Contract) Lead <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Contract) Lead Python Developer (Contract) Linwood, PA Obtain a position where I can continue to apply my skills, experience and training to implement and maintain enterprise data systems and applications using cutting-edge technologies. Work Experience Lead Python Developer (Contract) JP Morgan/Chase - Newark, DE April 2018 to September 2018 • Create micro services API's ( python) for monitoring of security appliance status.  • Create micro services API's ( python) for monitoring state of failover for clustered legacy COTS applications.  • Virtualize legacy applications with VMWare.  • Multi-threading application monitoring scripts ( python) accessing Windows VM's via WMI.  • PowerCLI Automation scripts for VM's.  • API Gateway configuration for Nginx. Senior Software Developer Coredial LLC - Blue Bell, PA July 2017 to April 2018 • Development of Switchconnex portal software with Python/Flask + SQL Alchemy.  • Development of RPC services/clients with Pika/RabbitMQ for integrating legacy systems.  • RESTful endpoint design and implementation in Microservices architecture.  • Database development on MySQL.  • Troubleshooting PHP user interface issues.  • Diagnosing messaging faults by analyzing Work Queue traffic.  • Creating and testing Alembic database migration scripts.  • Maintaining multiple cloud VirtualBox environments with Vagrant, Chef, fabric and Kubernetes.  • Development of services and provisioning agents for Broadworks cloud PBX/UC software.  • Providing technical guidance to junior developers.  • Assisting with new software architecture strategizing and analysis. Senior Programmer Analyst South Eastern Pennsylvania Transit Authority - Philadelphia, PA February 2013 to July 2017 Development of Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Management System with Python/OpenERP.  ? Development of Vendor Managed Inventory System with Python/OpenERP.  ? Design and implementation of RESTful APIs employing JSON, Jquery, Python.  ? Created client interfaces for OpenERP by utilizing the underlying Werkzeug framework.  ? Integration of client interfaces into SEPTA website using SimpleTAL templates and Jquery.  ? Migration of legacy data from SQL Server to PostgreSQL databases.  ? Installation and configuration of OpenERP, PostgreSQL, nginx, OpenSSL on Ubuntu server.  ? Python development on OpenERP. PostgreSQL database design.  ? Administration of Windows virtual server clusters.  ? Administration and development of Plone CMS.  ? Administration of Ubuntu Virtualized Web Servers.  ? Administration and maintenance of 1800 vehicle OrbCAD logistics and communications system.  ? SQL Server 2014 administration.  ? Python scripting for server side automation and administration.  ? Identifying and remedying security vulnerabilities.  ? Drafting security policies.  ? 24/7 End user support.  ? Investigating and testing new technologies and solutions. Sr. Software Engineer Library of Congress - Washington, DC May 2012 to July 2012 Development of web API for Library of Congress websites.  ? Implementation of API with django-Tastypie with Oracle back end.  ? Configuration of Apache webserver with mod_wsgi and mod_ python.  ? Design of RESTful web services and URIs.  ? Writing Oracle queries to support API features.  ? Integration of Solr search engine with website. User Interface Engineer Barclay's Bank - Wilmington, DE December 2011 to May 2012 Creating interactive interfaces using the Yahoo YUI Library.  ? Inserting RDFa attributes into templates.  ? Writing form handlers/validation in Javascript.  ? Modifying existing web products per partner specifications.  ? Refactoring and overriding CSS classes with dynamic markup in Stripes.  ? Development of credit card application screening workflows in XML.  ? JSP development of new partner product sites.  ? Weblogic deployment management and configuration.  ? Developing on multiple parallel software branches/deployments. Senior Software Engineer APS Healthcare - Columbia, MD October 2011 to December 2011 Maintenance and debugging of legacy web applications in Python, Zope.  ? Database performance optimization on SQL Server.  ? Implementing dynamic javascript UI functionality.  ? Installation and configuration of Zope framework and Zeo on web servers.  ? Developing custom CMF workflows and types.  ? Developing Python modules for Zope products.  ? Implementation of web services. Database Developer/Web Developer United States Coast Guard - Elizabeth City, NC October 2008 to October 2011 Re-engineering legacy systems in an Agile, LEAN, ISO9000 environment.  ? Solving complex technical problems with large-scale web applications and databases.  ? Decomposing business logic in stored procedures and adapting to PHP components.  ? Rewriting stored procedures for military logistics database.  ? Developing Object Oriented PHP applications for USCG Modernization effort.  ? Replacing ASP legacy code with Object Oriented PHP, Javascript/AJAX, Python.  ? Analyzing and rewriting SQL queries for performance optimization.  ? Adapting software work flow to follow military business rules.  ? Writing object oriented javascript to manipulate the DOM front end enhancements. Development Manager CMF June 2008 to October 2008 Election Assistance Commission  Washington DC    ? Design of multi-staging CMF workflows.  ? Redesign of existing Plone templates, UI's and portlets.  ? Converting CMF system to use UID hyperlinks.  ? Development of custom Types using UML diagrams for Plone CMF.  ? Planned and managed the migration of file library without breaking existing links.  ? Managed content editors and content managers in day to day site updates. Web Developer United States Geographical Survey - Reston, VA December 2007 to June 2008 Development of Communities of Practice application with Plone/Zope.  ? Installation and configuration of Zope, Plone and Zeo application server software.  ? Unit testing and installation of Python based Plone Product application modules.  ? Configuration of Apache web server to serve Zope content and URL rewriting.  ? Setup and testing of multi-instance Zeo server for Zope.  ? Use-case modeling for Plone Products in regards to USGS COP requirements.  ? Planning and implementation of COP community structure within Plone.  ? Testing and creation of workflows and optimizing overall usability.  ? Development of Python scripting and batch files for USGS server administrators.  ? Validated web UI's for Section 508 compliance. Web Developer Norfolk State University - Norfolk, VA July 2007 to November 2007 Development of web applications using ASP with Python for IIS scripting engine.  ? Complete overhaul of websites using dynamic page templates.  ? Administration of ActiveData Calendar web application.  ? Creation of web forms using SQL Server 2005 backend and/or email.  ? Administration of all new and existing web technologies.  ? ••Integration and migration of current web infrastructure with Plone 3.  ? Migration of websites from IIS to Apache on Gentoo Linux servers.  ? •Designing web page templates that are XHTML 1.0 validated and WAI/508 observant. Web Developer Don Richards Associates - Virginia Beach, VA October 2006 to July 2007 Redesign of company ASP intranet applications and sites using Zope/ Python.  ? Design and implementation of new databases and TTW interfaces which adapt to changes in DB schema.  ? Construction of production workflow management system and materials tracking framework.  ? Designed a data templating utility to allow users to make collections of data from various databases and tables.  ? Upgrades and maintenance of servers and workstations.  ? Maintained referential integrity during database upgrades.  ? Created Stored Procedures and Views to normalize database structure.  ? Bring all interfaces into conformance with current accessibility standards.  ? Configured MS Search and SQL Server for full-text search capabilities.  ? Configured Zope for accessing ODBC and PostgreSQL data-sources over the LAN. Aviation Electriciansmate 3rd Class United States Navy - Virginia Beach, VA September 2003 to October 2006 Virginia Beach, VA    • Troubleshooting and repair of avionics systems on F-14 Tomcat, F/A-18 and F/A-18 Superhornet.  • Performed duties as assistant work center supervisor.  • Provided mentoring, training and career counseling for Junior Enlisted personnel.  • Managed division personnel, documentation and resources performing the duties of Division Yeoman.  Global War on Terrorism Service Medal Webmaster/Intranet Dev. Supervisor Webmind - New York, NY January 2000 to September 2002 January 2000 to September 2002  Webmaster/Intranet Dev. Supervisor  Webmind Inc.  New York, New York    ? Design, development and administration of Webmind's 3 Gigabyte secure intranet and company's homepage, www.webmind.com.  ? Training and coordination of the Intranet Development Team.  ? Creating and teaching company-wide training courses for Zope Application Server administration and development.  ? Development of database driven web applications and email/ticketing systems in Java, PERL, Python, and Visual Basic.  ? Coordinated with IT, Sales & Marketing, Administration, R&D and Engineering to develop and maintain their areas of the Intranet.  ? Configuration of Unix and Cobalt RAQ web servers.  ? Coordinated with the CEO, CTO, DCTO, and IT Director on investigating new technologies and upgrades for all Web Systems, and reporting team efforts.  ? Traveled to Webmind's Brazil office frequently to coordinate on large projects and give training. Education Computer Information Systems Cecil County Community College - North East, MD Skills MS SQL SERVER (6 years), Python (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (6 years), training (5 years), Javascript (10+ years), PHP (3 years), ASP (4 years), MySQL (1 year), PostgresSQL (5 years), Ingres Database (3 years), Leadership Development (3 years), Vendor Management (4 years), System Administration (3 years), Supervisor (4 years), Architecture (5 years), Team Building (6 years), Information Security (4 years), Military (3 years) Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 October 2003 to October 2006 GWOT Campaign Badge Commendations: Accelerated Advancement Additional Information Skills    • HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS3, RDFa, SVG, VML, JSON, TAL  • Javascript, Jquery, AJAX, Yahoo YUI, Jquery UI  • Python 2.7, 3  • PHP5 (Attended professional PHP5 training program Dec. 08)  • Visual Basic, VBA  • SQL  • Netbeans, PyCharm, Eclipse, Emacs, Notepad++  • Java, JSP, Servlets, Stripes  • SQL Alchemy, Pika/RabbitMQ  • SQL Server 2008, 2014, PostgreSQL 9, MySQL 5.7, Ingres 2006  • Python frameworks: Zope/Plone, Django, Werkzeug, Flask.  • Red Hat Linux, Ubuntu, Windows  • VMWare, VirtualBox  • Docker, Kubernetes, Vagrant, Chef, Fabric  • Apache, IIS, nginx, jetty  • Burp Suite and Wireshark training at OWASP 2015  • Attended HOPE X, HOPE XI