Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> liferay devloper- WSP USA Inc Maryland, NY • Expertise in design, development of open source portal Liferay 6.x versions and liferay DXP.  • Worked on migration liferay 6.1 to 6.2.  Worked on migration liferay 6.2 to 7.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming using Java and J2EE related technologies.  • Proficiency in developing enterprise web application using Java, J2EE, JDBC, Struts, Spring (MVC, Core and JDBC), AJAX, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, Hibernate, JavaScript, XML, XSLT, CSS, HTML, Oracle, Microsoft SQL.  • Expertized in JQuery, YUI, AUI, boostrap and ability to analyze using UI development tools like web developer and firebug.  • Good experience in recognizing and reusing Java, J2EE Design Patterns.  • Expertise in various parts of Liferay development like MVC portlets, Collaboration, Social networking, content management portlets etc.  • Expertise in J2EE Application Servers such as IBM WebSphere and Tomcat (Web server).  • Experience using development methodologies like Agile, Sprint and SCRUM.  • Expertise in designing, developing applications using Struts and Spring Core, MVC Frameworks, Spring Web Flow.  • Designed Tables and developed ORM mappings using Hibernate  • Expertise in designing, developing applications using spring web flow, Spring MVC Frameworks.  • Hands on the tools such as Eclipse, SOAP UI, Toad, Apache Axis Soap Engine.  • Hands on experience in VPN, Filezilla etc.  • Having good knowledge on Spring Boot, Angular js, Android App development  • Strong analytical skills with ability to quickly understand client's business needs.  • Involved in meetings to gather information and requirements from the clients.  • Research-oriented, motivated, proactive, self-starter with strong technical, analytical and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Android Developer WSP USA Inc June 2018 to Present University of Michigan Students(pedestrians) only are using this app when they are crossing the road near to university. When they came to near to crossing zone then U-M pedAlert sending signals to RSU's and RSU's starting the yellow light flashing.    ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.8, gitlab, android Studio, PostgreSQL.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Worked in Agile methodology environment.  • Participated Bussness meetings to understand requirement  • Involved in design and developed android application  • Designed the database tables based on requirements Liferay Senior Developer/Architect internal product of WSP USA Inc June 2017 to May 2018 Submittal Document Review Comment Tool (SDRC). This tool will provide a method for an organization (such as Contractor, Owner, Designer, 3rd Party, etc.) to create a new submittal, attach documents, and submit to another Organization. The submittal tool will be designed for providing the comments based on file permissions and comments access level.    ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring Framework, SVN, Liferay Developer Studio, Ant, Liferay DXP, Ubuntu, PostgreSQL, AJAX, JQuery, Data Table, bootstrap.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Worked in Agile methodology environment including Test Driven Development with Continuous Integration/Delivery.  • Participated Bussness meetings to understand requirement  • Involved in design and developed portlets, hooks and themes  • Worked on PMCS migrating liferay 6.2 to dxp  • Designed the database tables based on requirements  • Developed comments multilevel permissions  • Devloped document preview concept  • Used Liferay Framework along with Spring MVC architecture to decouple business  • logic, data presentation, user interaction and data access  • Working on Staging, server setup. Python Developer March 2017 to May 2017 In connected vehicle We are tracking all devices List configured with siteID, DeviceType, BSM,Spat, Tim,WSA Details with hosts. Sending the messages and receiving message from rsu. To track the all the services are running or facing any issues Using alignak.    ENVIRONMENT  Python, Django, crispy-forms, alignak, Ubuntu.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Worked in Agile methodology environment  • Devloped login page  • Devloped Device List page,Device Forms class and ui using crispyforms  • Devloped WSA,BSM,Spat,Tim messages forms  • Devloped model classes Liferay Senior Developer/Architect Maryland Transit Administration (MTA) - Baltimore, MD June 2016 to February 2017 Baltimore, MD (June 2016 - Feb 2017)  Projects:PMCS,BaltimoreLink  Role: Liferay Senior Developer/Architect  Purple line submittals create submittals to reviewers to review and remote sharing the documents to 3rd parties to review and give the comments to document based on permissions level.    ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.7, J2EE, Spring Framework, SVN, Liferay Developer Studio, Ant, Liferay Portal Server 6.2, Ubuntu, Postgresql, AJAX, JQuery, Data Table.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Worked in Agile methodology environment including Test Driven Development with Continuous Integration/Delivery.  • Participated Bussness meetings to understand requirement  • Created hooks to applying the permissions to folder and subfolder anf files based on requirement  • Involved in design and developed portlets, hooks and themes  • Worked on PMCS migrating liferay 6.1 to 6.2  • Designed the database tables based on requirements  • Developed remote web service to access 3rd party users  • Used Liferay Framework along with Spring MVC architecture to decouple business  • logic, data presentation, user interaction and data access  • Working on Staging, production server setup  • Assisted team members Technical Lead / Liferay Architect OnRule - Santa Clara, CA January 2016 to May 2016 Enhanced the capabilities of inbuilt Liferay component. The add-on modules are developed using Spring MVC. Project is to align the capabilities of Liferay with the OnRule's product design and development. The additional modules include    PROJECT DESCRIPTION  ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.7, J2EE, GitLab, Liferay Developer Studio 1.6.0, Ant, Maven, Liferay Portal Server 6.2, Unix, PostgreSQL.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Implemented remotly updating the portal instances and portlets  • Implemented uploading documents and images prgramatically asper requirement.  • Created multiple tenants using using shard data base concept in liferay.  • Implemented interacting other liferay server tenants from remote tenantes  • Created custome portlets for role based access  • Given liferay traingin in 6.2  • Mentered the team member in liferay  • Devloped liferay hook and lay outs.  • Devloped image cropping funtionality.  • Database Sharding implementation in PostgreSQL  • Processing and loading data using parallel processing to multiple tables.  • Developed navigation Portlets. Developed configuration module that has Company Identification, Notification and Security  • Open SSO Integration Technical Lead / Liferay Developer Aon Hewitt (HM ENROLLMENT) - Lincolnshire, IL June 2014 to December 2015 PROJECT DESCRIPTION  Aon Hewitt is solutions expert in human resources, consulting services, benefits administrations & business process outsourcing. Scope of the project is to develop portal which provides the clients to provide Annual enrollment functionality with features such as comparing plans, expense estimator, check prescription drug costs, check In-Network status of providers for various plans.    ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.6, J2EE, Java Web services, Spring Framework, Spring Web Flow, SVN, Liferay Developer Studio 1.6.0, Ant, Maven, Liferay Portal Server 6.1, Unix, Oracle, SOAPUI.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • We implemented spring-web flow in Hm Enrollment and its help on increasing the performance.  • In HM enrollment I was implemented plans comarision and chossing plan,coparecoverage level,add dependent details page and IG flow using of spring web flow This are major part in enrollment and it's going to use multitple clients  • Involved in design and developed portlets, hooks and modify theme velocity templates using  • Analyze Design, Develop and Test the new application "Portal" in Liferay Portal environment using Java/J2EE and Liferay Portal Technology.  • Designing the classes and methods and workflow.  • Experience using development methodologies namely SDLC and Agile using SCRUM.  • Working with Scrum master and BA in identifying the stories in backlog and prioritize and plan the user stories for each sprint  • Estimating the user stories and providing the story points and hours in each sprint. Creating sub-tasks for each story and assigning the tasks.  • Involved in business plan and gathering the requirements for the new project implementation.  • Implementing Hooks, Layout in Liferay Portal and worked project architecture.  • Worked with JSR 168 and JSR 286 technology.  • Involved in web services development.  • Developed the spring web-flow Portlet.  • Java, J2EE, Liferay Portal Server 6.1 and tomcat server 7.0.  • Setting up of the Environment using plugin SDK in Liferay Developer Studio IDE. Setting the tomcat server 7.0 to deploy the portlets, hooks and theme.  • Performance tuning.  • Followed SDLC methodology for development of the application.  • Code review Liferay Developer HP SSO December 2013 to June 2014 PROJECT DESCRIPTION  The objective of the project is to replace current Software Support Online (SSO) site with new site developed in Liferay. The new site should provide better and simplified user experience and provide better search capabilities. The content on the site should be easily managed using the Liferay content management system. Also, users should have the ability to personalize their dashboards.    ENVIRONMENT  Windows, Java 1.6, Java Web services, Spring Framework, SVN, Liferay Developer Studio 1.6.0, , Ant, Maven, Liferay Portal Server 6.1, Oracle,SOAPUI.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Analyze Design, Develop and Test the new application "Portal" in Liferay Portal environment using Java/J2EE and Liferay Portal Technology.  • Designing the classes and methods and workflow.  • Experience using development methodologies namely SDLC and Agile using SCRUM.  • Implementing Hooks, Layout in Liferay Portal and worked project architecture.  • Worked with JSR 168 and JSR 286 technology.  • Involved in web services development.  • Developed the spring MVC Portlet.  • Involved in design and developed portlets, hooks and modify theme velocity templates using Java, J2EE, Liferay Portal Server 6.1 and tomcat server 7.0.  • Setting up of the Environment using plugin SDK in Liferay Developer Studio IDE. Setting the tomcat server 7.0 to deploy the portlets, hooks and theme.  • Followed SDLC methodology for development of the application.  • Code review Technical Lead / Liferay Developer PGC October 2013 to December 2013 PROJECT DESCRIPTION  PGC reviews the proposed business interaction to ensure that no more than Fair Market Value (FMV) is being paid for the services being provided and that applicable laws and Company policies are being followed. A change or modification to the business proposal following PGC approval requires a re-submission to PGC. The PGC is made up of members from Legal Affairs, Commercial Regulatory Affairs, and Medical Affairs. Users who request funding for the activities are referred to as "Requestors". A Requestor must be a DSI employee, and any DSI employee may be a Requestor.    ENVIRONMENT  Windows, Java 1.6, Liferay. Spring Framework, Liferay portals, Liferay Developer Studio 1.6.0, JSR 286 API, Liferay Portal Server 6.2, Ant, and Oracle.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Analyze Design, Develop and Test the new application "Portal" in Liferay Portal environment using Java/J2EE and Liferay Portal Technology.  • Involve in business plan and gathering the requirement test plan for the new project implementation.  • Implementing Hooks, Layout in Liferay Portal and worked project architecture and Inter Portal Communication.  • Worked with JSR 168 and JSR 286 technology.  • Developed the Spring MVC Portlet which uploads the PDF files.  • Developed Layout Creation/modifications.  • Involved in design and developed portlets, hooks and modify theme velocity templates using Java, J2EE, Liferay Portal Server 6.2 and tomcat server 7.0.  • Setting up of the Environment using plugin SDK in Liferay Developer Studio IDE. Setting the tomcat server 7.0 to deploy the portlets, hooks and theme. Technical Lead/ Liferay Developer CLEP September 2013 to October 2013 PROJECT DESCRIPTION  The purpose of CLEP is to create a 90-day road map to educate hotels about channels and loyalty in an efficient way    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Understand the existing road 90-day road map and developed  • Designed the tables and created service file.  • Developed the clep portlet. Technical Lead/ Liferay Developer CAPTIVEWAY April 2013 to October 2013 PROJECT DESCRIPTION  An Iway initiative search based secured B2B portal to connect & explore bilateral market place between France & India. Make the people explore & transform fast into a market. Provide the knowledge factory with rich library of reports, video conference, and newsletters to facilitate bilateral trade between countries Share the best practices of the two dynamic market places and there by promote knowledge sharing.    ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, Spring Framework, Liferay Developer Studio 1.6.0, MYSQL, JavaScript, Allow UI, Liferay Portal Server 6.1, Service Builder.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Analyze Design, Develop and Test the new features in "Patient Portal" Liferay Portal environment using Java/J2EE and Liferay Portal Technology.  • Involve in Liferay server tuning and portal improvement.  • Created overall Design for the application.  • Understanding & analyzing the business requirements and client specifications  • Developed component which allows to enter system downtime messages or portlet downtime messages.  • Worked in Portal architecture definition and implementing the portal platform for future development.  • Implementing Theme, Hooks, Layout in Liferay Portal and working on current project architecture and Inter Portal Communication.  • Created Users, Organizations, Communities, User Groups, Roles, Teams, Pages  • Managed the Content created in Liferay CMS.  • Worked with JSR 286 technology.  • Involved in design and developed portlets, hooks and modify theme velocity templates using Java, J2EE, Liferay Portal Server 6.1 and tomcat server 7.0.  • Setting up of the Environment using plugin SDK in Liferay Developer Studio IDE. Setting the tomcat server 7.0 to deploy the portlets, hooks and theme.  • Open SSO integration  • Followed SDLC methodology for development of the application.  • Code review Technical Lead / Liferay Developer CIGNEX DATAMATICS June 2012 to March 2013 PROJECT DESCRIPTION  Encore Capital Group specializes in the debt collection business, purchases the charged-off/write-off accounts (bad debts) from the seller. Using of this project downloading the documents based on account numbers. Internal users and external users can access the liferay portal. Internal users and external users can divide based on organizations and roles.    ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, Spring Framework, Liferay Developer Studio 1.6.0, JSR 286 API, ORACLE, JavaScript, Allow UI, Liferay Portal Server 6.1 with WebSphere, Service Builder.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and maintenance of the system.  • Developing business layer using Liferay Portlets, hooks, layouts, theme.  • Experience in developing database solutions with Oracle 10g and involved in writing PL/SQL and SQL queries.  • Integrated Liferay with IBM Web Sphere server.  • Developed custom, pluggable auto-complete component for web pages.  • Performed unit testing, system testing and integration testing.  • Followed SDLC methodology for development of the application. Liferay Developer CIGNEX DATAMATICS May 2011 to April 2012 PROJECT DESCRIPTION  Global Message Center (GMC) is the centralized repository for messages across all the benefits transaction systems; these source systems will be responsible for publishing messages to the Global Message Center. The strategy is to use a "publish" paradigm. The source system will create an XML message defining all the information required to manage the display and lifecycle of the message. The source system will be responsible for determining when the message should be triggered, construct the message and then publish that message to a queue. In most situations, once published, the source system does not require any further interaction with the message. Mainly gmc having two parts YAN&SPM.    ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, Spring Framework, Liferay Developer Studio 1.5.0, JSR 286 API, , JavaScript, Allow UI, Liferay Portal Server 6.0, Service Builder.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and maintenance of the system.  • Developing business layer using Liferay Portlets, hooks, layouts, theme.  • Developed portlets using of spring-webflowin Liferay.  • Extensively involved in the development of JSP,spring-webflow class, yui and CSS.  • Developed Hooke developments for reading data from organizations.  • Developed Liferay scheduler to update back end systems based on time settings.  • Developed single VM and multi VM Enchase in Liferay  • Developed Service Builder and REST based Webservices.  • Developed JUnit test case using PowerMockito.  • Involved integration of core services integration with portlets.  • Performed the unit level testing to make sure the correctness of the developed functionality.  • worked Bug fixing in testing environment  • Used Liferay developer studio IDE for application development. Liferay Developer CIGNEX DATAMATICS February 2011 to April 2011 PROJECT DESCRIPTION  The Cisco Nci project is an intranet portal site of Cisco. The purpose of this project is to manage content in a collaborative and secure environment. i.e Multiple contents of different types like HTML contents , Video contents & Audio contents are managed using Liferay Portal's Out Of The Box portlets like JournalArticles, Image gallery and document gallery. And also to enable content managers in their editorial work to take control of content lifecycle and Implement the wireframes provided by Cisco in Liferay.  ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, Spring Framework, Liferay Developer Studio 1.5.0, JSR 286 API, ORACLE, JavaScript, Allow UI, Liferay Portal Server 6.0, Service Builder.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and maintenance of the system.  • Developing business layer using Liferay Portlets, hooks, layouts, theme.  • Managed the Content created in Liferay CMS.  • Developed Liferay Portlet to integrate with twitter  • Created Users, Organizations, Communities, User Groups, Roles, Teams, Pages.  • Implementing Theme, Hooks, Layout in Liferay Portal and working on current project architecture and Inter Portal Communication.  • Performed unit testing, system testing and integration testing. Java Developer TECH MAHINDHRA March 2010 to December 2010 PROJECT DESCRIPTION  Collaboration platform is a support project for British Telecommunication website bt.com. This platform delivery based on the Agile methodologies and deliver products on different areas like,Pstn, Broadband, BT Vision. BT.com releases is the part of Retail delivery called CCP (customer centric platform) releases.    ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, Spring Framework, hibernate, Eclipse, ORACLE, JavaScript, Tomcat.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Developing business layer using java.  • Experience in developing database solutions with Oracle and involved in writing SQL queries.  • Worked in Codered activities.  • Collaborating with team members and fixing bugs  • Performed unit testing, system testing and integration testing. Sales portal TECH MAHINDHRA January 2010 to February 2010 Liferay Developer    PROJECT DESCRIPTION  CYTL Sales portal is an online portal which will be developed as Liferay portals and deployed in Liferay portal container. Liferay web content management API will be used to create, update the product modeling of YTL sales products and display online. Liferay portal container will be deployed in sun glassfish application server. Oracle 10g used a Liferay portal container database. Online presales and shopping cart journey will be developed by customizing the Liferay journal, tag, shopping cart, rating, theme, layout and bread crumb portals which internally uses Liferay Portlet, Spring, JSP tag libraries    ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, Spring MVC, Liferay Developer Studio 1.5.0, JSR 286 API, ORACLE, JavaScript, Allow UI, Liferay Portal Server 6.0, Service Builder,glashfish application server.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Analysis, Design, Development, Testing.  • Developing business layer using Liferay Portlets, hooks, layouts, theme.  • Experience in developing database solutions with Oracle 10g and involved in writing PL/SQL and SQL queries. Java Developer HCL TECHNOLOGIES September 2008 to July 2009 PROJECT DESCRIPTION  The HUDSON project consists of many web based applications and is being developed for Shinsei Securities Ltd., Japan. This project mainly deals with mechanism for Order Management and Trade/Settlement matching for the various parties involved in the securities. This project is primarily focused on the OTC market    Hudson-Chukai: This module is a software-based platform that facilitates and manages the order execution of securities and used by front office users. It allows firms to change, cancel and update orders. Once order is executed, the email or fax will be sent to counterparty for trade confirmation automatically and data is pushed back to office system. This system indeed, helps to Increase the accuracy of trades, Increase execution rates, Reduce trade exceptions  ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP, Struts Framework, Eclipse, ORACLE, JavaScript, Tomcat.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and maintenance of the system.  • Developing business layer using Struts framework.  • Experience in developing database solutions with Oracle 10g and involved in writing PL/SQL and SQL queries. Java Developer HCL TECHNOLOGIES May 2008 to September 2008 PROJECT DESCRIPTION  DB-Tsar project Commodities consists of two parts confirmations and invoices.  Invoices: In principal for each product there can be four kinds of statement - invoice, premium invoice, MTMs and credit Notes - The statements can be generated in two formats - PDF and MS word. The kinds of statement and the formats in which the statements can be produced vary from product to product. Each product has its own directory - which is the name of the product - and may contain style sheets to generate PDF format statements and "dot" files to generate MS word statements.  Confirmations: The Endure system generates an XML document, the standard of which is determined by Open link. The document contains the trade details for the particular product type and is placed by Endur in a specified location on a London file server .The document is picked up from the file server and processed by the Empire Endur plug-in, which translates the document to a Tsar trade object and places the trade on dBus. The trade is picked up from dBus and inserted into the Tsar database by Trappist. The Diary Tracking screen, which is within the Trade Capture Documentation Group, will obtain this trade from the Tsar database once it has been processed and the Confirmation can then be generated through the Diary Tracker application    ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP, Struts Framework, Eclipse, ORACLE, JavaScript, Tomcat.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Created Web application using Struts framework.  • developing Front End Pages using HTML & JSP  • Using of XML, XSD, Xpath, XSLT devloped the pdf file reports.  • Performed unit testing, system testing and integration testing. Java Developer HCL TECHNOLOGIES November 2007 to May 2008 PROJECT DESCRIPTION  The objective of this application is to build a portal application 'dbInspire' that can be integrated with the DB(Deutsche Bank) intranet application with using Group Directory single sign-on. This application will be able to capture the ideas, maintain and track the ideas with other primary functionalities like draft, mailing ideas, upload/download ideas, mark duplicate/link ideas, search, reports etc. Users from different locations can use this application and share their ideas.    ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, Struts Framework, Eclipse, ORACLE, JavaScript, Tomcat  RESPONSIBILITIES  • Created Web application using Struts framework.  • developing Front End Pages using HTML & JSP  • Performed unit testing, system testing and integration testing. Java Developer HCL TECHNOLOGIES September 2006 to October 2007 PROJECT DESCRIPTION  CWATCH is primarily Collaterals and Risks monitoring application. The system provides portfolio revaluation based on data sourced from DB Trader.  DB Trader is the core PWM application from which the tenor data is sourced. CWATCH maintains local table to capture the tenor data flowing from DBTrader.    PWM offers a wide variety of products such as Fixed Income, Money Market, FX Products, Equities and Mutual Funds. Client enjoys short & medium term loans, overdrafts under credit products, FX Limits to buy foreign currency options, forward contracts and swap contracts. Client assets are the collaterals for such credit limits. Client assets include deposits, shares, bonds, notes, mutual fund units and cash.  ENVIRONMENT  Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP, Struts Framework, Eclipse, ORACLE, JavaScript, Tomcat.    RESPONSIBILITIES  • Created Web application using Struts framework.  • developing Front End Pages using HTML & JSP  • Experience in developing database Sql queries in Oracle  • Performed unit testing, system testing and integration testing. Education B.TECH. in Electrical and Electronics Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills J2EE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), SPRING (7 years), ORACLE (7 years), TOMCAT (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Programming Core Java, Collections, SQL, PL/SQL  Java Technologies J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, JSP  Portal Technologies Liferay 6.x,Liferay DXP  Protocol Knowledge HTTP, HTTPS, TCP  Frameworks Struts, Spring Framework (Core, JDBC, MVC,web-flow),Hibernate  RDBMS MSSQL, Oracle,postgresql  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, Websphere Application Server  Web technologies. HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, CSS, XML, XSLT, XSD, bootstrap  IDE Eclipse (Java, JavaScript) , Liferay Developer Studio  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN,Gitlab  Web Service tools SOAP UI  Open Source Tools Log4J, Apache Ant, Junit, Maven  Code Review tools PMD  Operating Systems Ubuntu , Windows.