Lead Web Developer Lead Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Web Developer - Acquia/Time Warner Group Downers Grove, IL • More than 15+ years of experience in the web development industry out of which 10+ Years on  PHP and 7+ Years on Magento.  • Performs as a Web Developer, Programmer and Designer to develop and implementation  both Web applications, Real time monitor, and management tools  • Have a diverse skill set of web development skills that includes. (PHP, Magento, Joomla  Wordpress, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, AJAX, IDE, MySQL, Classic ASP, iOS, Android,  AJAX, Pinnacle, Drupal, Code Ignitor, Cake PHP, Zend Framework, HTML5, XML/XSLT, CSS,  Photoshop, JavaScript, JQuery  • Solid development experience with LAMP, Shopify Application Architecture and Development  and Laravel MVC  • Experience developing application based on Magento, Symfony, Joomla, Wordpress and  Content Management Systems (CMS)  • Expertise in integrating API like Facebook API and Twitter API  • Experienced with Developing and deploying Web based Application  • Environment (MAC OS/Windows OS, Apache, MySQL, and PHP)  • Strong RDBMS skills with excellent knowledge of Design, Normalization and Database  Management Concepts.  • Sound knowledge in working with tools like Drupal for content management.  • Competent with PHPMyAdmin, MySQL database concepts and SQL.  • Experience with database SQL development and excellent knowledge working with relational  database systems such as MySQL, MSSQL, or Oracle.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server-side scripting languages like JavaScript,  jQuery, JSON, and angular.js  • Extensively experienced with Search Engine Optimization (SEO)  • Attuned with FTP and SSH software  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process which includes  designing, developing, testing and implementation.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and Scrum Process.  • Creating a inventory management system with Python and Linux  • Able to work independently and also as a team player.  • Ability to work with a sense of urgency in an aggressive, multi-tasking environment and meet  deadlines.  • Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with strong attention to  detail.  • Expert in developing and designing business to business eCommerce sites.  • Expert in user interface design and working with clients in order to maximize the functionality of  their sites.  • Expert in designing web applications using the client/server architecture. Have built data intensive  sites with heavy content, product offerings, and multimedia. Have also built corresponding CMS  for such sites where client can administer information their site via a browser based interface.  • Have served as an Information Architect and have modeled websites, content management  systems (CMS), databases  o Expert at studying user interaction, design of online organizational structures and the  development of appropriate content to be used within information systems.  o Expert at user discovery and needs analysis  o Expert at content organization and management  o Expert at navigation design, information hierarchy, and taxonomy  o Well versed in prototyping and user testing  o Have served as a Business Systems Analyst for web applications.  o Managed projects ranging from site translations to Data Enrichment.  o Created Use Cases for web applications  o Oversaw a team of three developers, assigned maintenance and site upgrade tasks.  o Went through full QA testing using JIRA Control tool.  o Worked with Jenkind for testing and reporting on Isolated Code Segments Work Experience Lead Web Developer Acquia/Time Warner Group - Boston, MA May 2017 to Present Magento 2/PHP)/Project Manager    • Actively participated in migration of major eCommerce store for top selling Music Artists  including Twenty One Pilots, Kid Rock, etc.Worked primarily in an Agile/SCRUM environment  • Worked primarily in an Agile/SCRUM environment  • Handled the migration and configuration of over 100 Cron jobs from previous client  environment to new Amazon AWS cloud portal.  • Worked with Jenkins for testing and reporting on isolated code segments.  • Developed new modules as well as extended core modules based on the business requirements.  • Worked with the team of 7 and setup development environments for them  • Performed integration and performance testing to make sure all modules are working properly.  • Continuous build integration & deployment (Jira, Confluence, Git, Jenkins).  • Worked on installing docker & toolbox and building docker containers using docker-compose.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, Angular.JS, JavaScript, JQuery,  JSON/XML, AJAX, API and Ajax.  • Troubleshoot and resolve all Magento related issues and log errors.  • Use source version control tool GIT for code base management and PR submission in Github  repository.  • Using Atlassian JIRA to collaborate on projects and Atlassian Confluence to capture and store  procedures and team documentation for knowledge sharing.  Environment: PHP, Magento, Magento 2, Jenkins, AJAX, Python, Drupal, Angular JS, MySQL,  LAMP, MySQL, HTML5, CSS Lead Programmer Plego Technologies 2002 to Present Magento e-Commerce Website Migration and Customization Lead Magento 2/PHP Developer/Project Manager SCIC - Austin, TX September 2016 to April 2017 • Lead in the requirements, design, development, rollout, and support phases of this project.  • Worked primarily in an Agile/SCRUM environment  • Responsible for scoping and developing client websites using the enterprise version of Magento  2.0 e-commerce platform.  • Designed, built, tested and implemented stand-alone modules for Magento, including payment  and shipping modules. Customized Magento's inherent features based on client needs.  • Designed and wrote API that had a custom integration between Magento and their Oracle ERP  (NACS)  • Integrated courses data from Oracle into Magento Site  • Built Custom Course Search tool allowing users to search courses by State, Zip, and dozens of other filters.  • Built a custom User Profile section directly integrated with Oracle that allowed users to track their  Continuing Education credits in real time.  • Used client-provided PSD files to implement Magento layouts, skins, and themes including  customized user functionality.  • Provided end-to-end support for e-commerce transactions from receiving orders to settlement.  • Worked in a multi-cultural environment (USA and India)  Environment: PHP, Magento, Magento 2, JavaScript, Node.JS, React.JS, Beanstalkd, Varnish( full  page cache), Redis (cache), AJAX, Python, Microsoft Visual Studio Team Services , JIRA, MySQL,  LAMP, MySQL, HTML, SEO, HTML5, iOS, Android, CSS Lead Web Developer (PHP/Magento)/Project Manager Zero Friction - Oak Brook, IL September 2015 to August 2016 Zero Friction(TM) was founded in 2001, originally under the name of Excel Golf Products, Inc. with the primary goal of offering high quality, performance products with innovative technological advancements    • Managing of 4-6 Web Engineers and developed one Technical Leads  • Enterprise versions of Magento Commerce e-commerce platform  • Developed web sites using PHP/MySQL, Python, Ruby of Rails, XHTML, CSS, Javascript  • Coordinated in developing special projects using PHP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, and related  technologies.  • Worked with FTP and SSH software as well as current web development practices such as Responsive Design and Search Engine Optimization (SEO)  • Use PHP, LAMP and MySQL web programming processing with online order, shopping cart,  customer service, project management, employment service and web email contact  • Fixed Bugs with the help of Lean Testing (Bug Tracking System)  Environment: PHP, Magento, Magento 2, AJAX, Python, MySQL, Shopify, LAMP, MySQL, HTML,  SEO, HTML5, JavaScript, Ember.JS, CSS, Lean Testing Lead Web Developer (Magento /PHP)/Project Manager Novo Surgical September 2010 to August 2015 Novo Surgical, Inc., is a retailer of high-quality German stainless surgical instrumentation to health care  providers, including physicians' offices, hospitals, surgery centers, veterinary clinics and educational/research institutions.    • Responsible for design, analysis, development, testing, rollout and support phases of this project  • Strong experience with Magento Commerce (creating modules, extending out-of-the-box  functionality, layout creation and theming), user interface and interactive concepts regarding Search Engine Optimization (SEO), Smarty template engine, web analytic tools and SDLC  • Responsible for scoping and developing client websites using the enterprise version of Magento  Commerce e-commerce platform.  • Upgraded Python 2.3 to Python 2.5 on a RHEL server, this required recompiling mod_ python to use Python 2.5  • Worked on front end i.e developing the web pages for Novo Surgical sites using PHP.  • Fixed the bugs in the existing Applications    Environment: PHP, Magento, JavaScripts, , MySQL, MySQL, Python, LAMP, HTML, HTML5, iOS,  Android, CSS, Lean Testing PHP/ Python Lead Developer/Project Manager WCIU February 2006 to August 2010 This client is a local independent Chicago television station that began broadcasting in 1964 as Chicago's  first UHF station. The client's mission is "serving the underserved" population and it continues through its  programming that counters what other broadcast stations offer. This includes offering programs in time  periods other stations do not feature local programming, scheduling a significant number of popular  African American programs and featuring a significant amount of local collegiate and professional sports.    • Involved in the requirement gathering and impact analysis.  • Created PHP and MySQL based website and Content Management System for local Chicago  television station.  • Worked on PHP, HTML/CSS, Ajax/JavaScript (JQuery, ExtJS, etc.), SVN, GIT and MySQL and Apache, demonstrating vast LAMP architecture experience.  • Content Management Systems (CMS) allowed users to schedule different content to go live at certain times of day and week.  • Created a Wordpress blog for TV personalities to post updates and interact with viewers.  Environment: PHP, MySQL, HTML, HTML5, iOS, Python, Android, CSS Lead Web Developer (PHP) Hendon Publishing February 2002 to January 2006 Our mission is to enhance and strengthen the profession of Police Fleet personnel through education,  networking and conferences    • Involved in the requirement gathering for the enhancements to the existing application.  • Implemented product and customer pages using PHP (Larvae MVC)  • Wrote PHP scripts to export customer data into XML files  • Strong expertise in Web Application development using PHP with OOPs, CVS, SVN, MySQL,  MS SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, Flash ActionScript 3.0 and XML.  • Migrating PHP development to production  • Trouble-shooting and fix defects  Environment: PHP, MySQL, HTML, HTML5, iOS, Android, MySQL, CSS, Lean Testing Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Urbana-Champaign, IL 2001 Skills HTML (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), PYTHON (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years), C#, Wordpress, Angular, NET, Javascript Additional Information Technical Skills:  Database Technologies: SQL Server, MySQL, MS ADO, Paradox, MS Access, ODBC, OleDB, SSIS,  SSRS, ETL  Languages/Frameworks: PHP, Joomla, Wordpress, Python, Magneto, NET, Classic ASP, CSS, SQL,  JavaScript, HTML, VBScript, Ajax, CakePHP LAMP, CMS Applications: Wordpress, Drupal, Joomla,  Magento, Magento 2, Shopify, Pinnacle