Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - ReferralExchange.com Corte Madera, CA Work Experience Software Engineer ReferralExchange.com June 2017 to Present CURRENT)  ? Develop API, Sidekiq Jobs, AgentMachine Agent Administration tool, Sales  application, and AgentCRM tools all acting as standalone Rails applications in distributed microservice architecture.  ? Use Ruby on Rails (Ruby 2.2, Rails 5) and ReactJS as well as antiquated ERB and JS.ERB, HAML/SASS.  ? Manage Data repository and data migrations using MySQL, raw SQL.  ? Manage AWS Cloud servers to replicate production environment.  ? All QA of my own work presented in pull-request with full regression instructions, and Rails console/MySQL steps provided as necessary, in lieu of QA department.  ? Testing using Minitest, in Travis CI-powered continuous integration environment. Software Engineer HealthRight November 2015 to June 2017 Design, Develop and QA API alongside ten parallel Rails 4 applications each operating  atop Amazon AWS (EC2, SQS, S3) to capture incoming user data for processing,  validation, and submission to various queues to determine if incoming users qualify for various tele-health services. Front End is Node.JS/React.  ? Connect with two outside APIs to send qualified users to call center for further  screening. Successful qualified users return to our system where they are tracked  further before being sent to a consultation with a physician.  ? Travis CI, PostgreSQL, Amazon AWS, Ruby on Rails 4. Testing with MiniTest. Software Engineer EducationSuperhighway.org May 2015 to November 2015 Develop systems to provide transparency to varying costs paid by school districts  across the USA for broadband access by parsing USAC and NCES public data on American Schools  ? Develop Front-End Compare and Connect Page to call users to engage our District  and State Landing Pages - http://esh-pharaoh-demo.herokuapp.com/ (URL changing  soon)    ? Develop Fiber Toolkit (http://esh-pharaoh-demo.herokuapp.com/toolkit) to help  school districts determine if upgrading to Fiber Optic networks will save them money, and explain what services are right for them  ? Add features and bug fixes to Rails 4 application  ? Testing using both RSpec and customized in-house factories to test data generated  nightly via Materialized Views  ? Continuous Integration using CircleCI, Github, Heroku Pipeline Software Engineer VerticalResponse April 2013 to May 2015 Assist in creation and launch of VR2 application, the Ember.js/Ruby on Rails  successor to VR's existing application  ? Develop back-end billing software to track and record product signup, purchases and user entitlements  ? Develop and expand front-end Ember.js application that allows users to create email  marketing campaigns  ? TDD using RSpec, RR, Capybara, Jasmine  ? Jenkins, Tddium to manage continuous integration deployment  ? Submit and review pull requests via GitHub  ? Create Widget for dev.wix.com to capture user registrations for Wix.com sites Software Engineer Digital Chocolate August 2012 to April 2013 Maintain and upgrade Rails CRM for managing marketing and promotional campaigns  across multiple mobile/social games (Facebook, iOS, Android)  ? Write Unit/Functional/Integration Tests for all functionality Software Engineer awe.sm April 2012 to August 2012 Create API in PHP Zend Framework in concert with Backbone.js front-end GUI  ? Maintain, upgrade and modify Backbone.js front-end application • Write Integration  and Unit tests using PHPUnit Engineer, Transit & Trails Bay Area Open Space Council February 2011 to August 2012 http://www.transitandtrails.org/  ? Assist with development of core functionality for site using Python/Django, HTML5,  CSS3  ? Use Spatial Database add-ons to PostgreSQL to map transit agency areas,  open-space areas of the Bay Area Open Space Council  ? Facilitate helping people get to outdoor open spaces using public transit Sr. Engineer ShortForm.com September 2010 to April 2012 Built core app using Ruby on Rails, Javascript  ? Created Google TV app, presented GTV app at Google I/O 2010  ? Expand number of video sources from across the web for integration in Shortform  channels  ? Created new functionality using Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, HAML, SASS, JQuery  ? TDD using Rspec, Jasmine  ? Jenkins, Tddium to manage continuous integration deployment  ? Helped build growing business application with over 1.5M current visits monthly  (over 1M unique users/month) and doubling each month  ? Build widget for playing Shortform channels on external sites Web Developer SurveyMonkey.com April 2010 to September 2010 http://www.surveymonkey.com/  ? Re-Skin existing .NET application, prep to switch site to Python/Pylons  ? Use (X)HTML, Javascript/jQuery, CSS to generate new look & feel for entire  logged-out public pages, logged-in pages, and survey functionality  ? Develop application using .NET to fix bugs/expand functionality Python/jQuery Developer Fuze Box, Inc January 2010 to April 2010 http://www.fuzebox.com  http://www.tweetshare.com  ? Develop application on Pylons MVC Framework.  ? Code jQuery to manage state and event requests.  ? Use SQLAlchemy ORM.  ? Authenticate users against twitter API using basic auth/oAuth  ? Generate JSON APIs to respond to iPhone app requests with platform data. Web Developer Teachscape.com July 2007 to December 2009 contract  03/2006- 10/2006  http://www.teachscape.com/  ? Create Online Courses for teachers in online education programs purchased by participating school systems using HTML, XML, JavaScript, CSS, Java using Wicket  Framework  ? Create registration forms for lead capture Business Applications Developer Tides Inc October 2006 to July 2007 http://www.tides.org  http://www.tidesfoundation.org  http://www.tidessharedspaces.org  ? Maintained websites for all branches of Tides non-profit organizations on TYPO3 CMS  ? Hand-coded custom AJAX/MySQL/ColdFusion to create "Cash Receipts Tool" - automated tracking and monthly reporting of all incoming and outgoing money for  Tides organization (over $100M annually)  ? Generated/managed all outgoing email blasts to Tides email subscribers Web Developer Quinstreet.com June 2002 to December 2002 http://www.quinstreet.com  Created front-end presentations for technical schools for lead generation programs Created  Java back end functionality to document lead capture Web Engineer Providian Financial February 2001 to June 2002 http://www.providianservices.com (acquired by Washington Mutual, later Chase)  ? Developed functionality for Providian's OLA (On-Line Access) website (over ten million hits per day, transacting $1M+ per day) - Java 1.2,  JSP/Apache/Oracle/IPlanet/Struts (Formerly NetDynamics Platform)  ? Expanded and improve website functionality to cut costs through decreased call  center volume Successfully launched SmartCard services project, GetSmart Brand  ? Converted entire website from Netdynamics Web Server to Apache/JSP/Struts  system, along with others in OLA team  ? Create/Use bash build scripts to do builds from Development Server to QA Server  ? Use UNIX terminal to monitor logs for Production, QA and Development servers and troubleshoot user problems Web Developer Brodia.com February 2000 to February 2001 http://www.brodia.com (now defunct)  ? Developed On-Line Wallet that stores Billing, Shipping and Credit Card information  and automatically fills online forms to expedite online shopping  ? Developed parallel branded shopping portal sites for: Capital One, MBNA Bank, Wells  Fargo, Bank of America, Disney, PayPal - each with custom functionality  ? Coded JSP on Apache/Oracle with JavaScript, HTML, CSS embedded in JSP  ? Work entirely in Solaris using Emacs, Vi, Perforce JavaScript Programmer Brodia.com August 1999 to February 2000 http://www.brodia.com  ? Write JavaScript "Profiles" for Brodia Online Wallet  ? Detected unique URL/Page/Form name/Element Name text in order to properly  auto-fill shopping cart form elements with consumer data to expedite online  shopping  ? Work entirely in Solaris using Emacs, Vi, Perforce Education B.S. in Communications Cornell University May 1997 B.S. in Computer Science San Francisco State University M.S. in Computer Science San Francisco State University Skills AWS (2 years), Java (4 years), Javascript (6 years), Rails (7 years), Ruby (7 years) Additional Information SKILLS/LANGUAGES/FRAMEWORKS:  Ruby 2.2, Rails 5, Python, PHP, JavaScript, PostgreSQL, Django, HTML5, Node.js, MySQL,  Pyramid/Pylons, CSS3, Backbone.js, JSON, ASP.NET, Java, Amazon AWS, Heroku