Senior Python Developer and Data Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Data Engineer Senior Python Programmer and Data Engineer Lititz, PA I have over 18 years of experience as a professional software developer and data engineer. I spent 9 years serving in the United States Air Force as a Computer Systems Programmer, with one year spent in Afghanistan as an Information Management Officer and Radio Telephone Operator. My expertise lies in application development and data management, with years of experience in web development, microservices, network and system security, and system administration. Work Experience Senior Python Developer and Data Engineer WebbMason Analytics - Hunt Valley, MD December 2014 to Present As a senior developer and data engineer, I was instrumental in working with team members to find creative and sustainable ways to upgrade older systems and create new pipelines to overcome many obstacles in retrieving data and making it available to the customer in various formats.  • Ensured data integrity and report accuracy by working directly with and building data pipelines for various clients such as Boston Consulting Group (for Bridgestone Tires), Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Carolina, Magellan, Kaiser Permanente, and WebbMason Marketing.  • Collected and consolidated user metrics information via API calls to Google, Facebook, CallTrackingMetrics, and MediaMath for reporting to clients.  • Leveraged tools such as SQL Server Integration Services, RedPoint Data Manager, Qlik Sense, Data Science Studios, and many others for various client projects.  • Created a testing framework in Python to enable automatic testing of the various products and systems built and used by the company.  • Spearheaded the use of Python 3.x and virtual environments for upcoming and ongoing projects to ensure future support and reliability.  • Administered several cloud-based server instances in Amazon AWS and similar services.  • Lead developer on several projects to create and/or modernize data reporting pipelines.  • Mastered Python libraries such as Pandas and SQLAlchemy to process terabytes of data from various sources. Website and Application Developer and Systems Administrator HM Consulting - Lancaster, PA July 2008 to December 2017 I was the senior developer in charge of multiple projects for our primary client, Auntie Anne’s (the pretzel company). I also did some work for other clients as necessary.  • Ensured timely and accurate communication between corporate offices and franchisees by building a web portal and reporting platform for Auntie Anne’s franchisees.  • Ensured continuous operation and security of the intranet systems by maintaining several Linux and Windows based file, web, backup, and version control servers.  • Prevented network intrusions and ensured data integrity by maintaining the network firewall.  • Ensured minimal downtime of systems by developing a Java server application to monitor websites hosted on premise to alert the administrators in case of an inability to connect to a service and/or server.  • Improved user experience by integrating new ideas and technologies, such as AJAX, JQuery, HTML5 and CSS3 to various administered websites.  • Reduced the potential for data and transmission errors by creating a register polling and data import application written in Python to poll the franchise registers for sales and timeclock data on a daily basis. Computer Systems Programmer United States Air Force (Active Duty) - Montgomery, AL August 1999 to July 2008 I worked on various projects throughout my Air Force career, including upgrading aging supply systems, early web services, maintaining maintenance systems, system administration, and building communication systems for server/client communications.  • Ensured maintainability, stability, and performance of systems by rewriting aging and non-standards compliant software.  • Dramatically improved on the performance of server side software. Rewrote it to run in 8% of its original time while increasing its stability and reliability while using 50% of its original system resources.  • Developed and maintained a web based source repository and code management platform supporting a system used worldwide by the military, Integrated Maintenance Database System – Centralized Database (IMDS-CDB).  • Developed Java software to act as a messaging service to inform IMDS-CDB programmers of compilation completion of their COBOL programs.  • Increased developer productivity by developing a Java Swing based application that interacts with several mainframe servers at once, running telnet and FTP sessions simultaneously to ensure prompt deployment of the IMDS-CDB software and timely messaging to its developers.  • Non-Commissioned Officer In Charge of CSCS (Computer Software Configuration System) Web Development.  • Administered several Windows and Unix/Linux database and web hosting servers.  • Developed and maintained a web based front end for the Integrated Maintenance Database System (IMDS) used worldwide by the Air Force.  • Lead a team of 5 developers and was the Java technical expert for the Air Force's first J2EE Web Service.  • Trained coworkers in the usage of WebSphere Application Developer for development and deployment of the Web Service.  • Ensured ease and accuracy of testing by creating a Java Swing based test client for the various web services.  • Upgraded an aging text based supply system used on nearly every Air Force base in the world to a newer web-based Java applet system.  • Supervised a team of Java and web programmers throughout the project and ensured systems and personnel worked smoothly together. Information Management Officer, Radio Telephone Operator United States Air Force (Active Duty) - Mehtar Lam, Afghanistan February 2006 to April 2007 As the lead Information Management Officer, I was responsible for all of the secure and nonsecure computes, networks, and satellite communications systems. I also acted as a Radio Telephone Operator, ensuring constant radio communications with the base while on missions throughout the country.  • Oversaw the installation and maintenance of over 30 DoD computer systems on a Forward Operating Base in a remote location in southeastern Afghanistan.  • Designed and built wired and wireless networks throughout the base for both official and personal use.  • Ensured the continuous and secure operation of systems by deploying security patches and upgrades to all computers on secure (SIPR) and non-secure (NIPR) networks.  • Deployed and maintained 7 satellite communications systems used constantly throughout the deployment.  • Eradicated and further prevented several computer viruses that had spread through both personal and DoD machines throughout the country. Education Certificate in Computer Science Air Force Technical School - Biloxi, MS September 1999 to December 1999 Skills Python (5 years), SQL (10+ years), Go (1 year), Docker (2 years), AWS (3 years), Data Engineering (5 years), Linux Administration (10+ years), Windows Administration (10+ years), Database Administration (10+ years), Network Security (10+ years), Java (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years) Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: SSgt (E-5) August 1999 to July 2008 Commendations: Army Commendation Medal, Distinguished Graduate - Airman Leadership School