Software Test Engineer/Lead Automation Engineer Software Test Engineer/Lead Automation Engineer Software Test Engineer/Lead Automation Engineer - Morpho Detection LLC • Seasoned Professional - Worked in Software Test & Automation, Development, Software Design and Leadership  positions.  • Proven record of individual contribution, building and driving high-performance teams and delivering quality  products within budget and time constraints using agile methodologies.  • 10+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Automation, Testing and Maintenance of various  stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Extensive knowledge in Python, C++, C, Shell Scripting, Java, QT, Unix and Linux.  • Extensive customer facing experience.  • Lead engineering research and automation initiatives - researched, introduced and customized various new  technologies and new tools to meet project's needs.  • Drive and lead automation test planning, daily stand-ups, demos and retrospectives.  • Set up clear vision, create roadmaps, and goals & objectives for the automation teams.  • Effective team player and team leader to motivate and mentor team members, go-to person for automation,  design, analysis and debugging.  • Expertise in automating high performance, highly scalable automation solutions deployed on docker ecosystems.  • Co-ordinate work from R&D teams, PMs and product managers.  • Expertise knowledge of Python/C++ Objected Oriented Concepts, Standard Template Library, Smart Pointers and  design patterns  • Proficient in creating Stored Procedures, Functions, Views, Cursors using SQL.  • Experience in multi threading, multi processing and synchronization.  • Used socket programming for client/server communications.  • Have Hands-on experience on ownership of code - in Python scripting, Python STL, Pylons, Django, UI and web  development, Groovy Jenkins scripts, creating and maintaining docker containers.  • Experience in developing GUI using QT and Java.  • Front end development experience using HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript.  • Good knowledge of TCP/IP networking technologies.  • Active Participation in full development and test life cycles.  • Self starter attitude to get involved and do whatever it takes to get the job done  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design  documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Excellent analytical, organizational and communication skills for effective interaction at all levels. Work Experience Software Test Engineer/Lead Automation Engineer Morpho Detection LLC October 2014 to Present Morpho Detection is a leading supplier of explosives, narcotics and CBRNE threat detection systems for government,  military, air and ground transportation, critical infrastructure and other high-risk organizations. It provides an extensive  range of qualified and certified technology-based solutions to efficiently detect threats.    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:    • Implementation and design of explosive detection software automation and test systems.  • Hands-on design and coding to build and extend architectures and frameworks, automation tools, packaging and reporting tools.  • Work in scrum team and be responsible for transforming product requirements to test strategies, test planning  and test case design.  • Experience making software design decisions and evaluating log-term consequences  • Setup docker infrastructure for installation and testing of Morpho's software on various software systems.  • Automated build validation process. This has bought the build validation time down from 8 hours to 15  minutes.  • Created data reporting modules using data frames, numpy, matplotlib etc for senior management which filter  intricate data and present graphs/charts etc to work through software enhancements  • Created and executed stress/performance tests and reported metrics.  • Performed In-depth root cause analysis and investigation of defect found in the field and provided solutions.  • Work towards new areas of systems to improve and evaluate system optimization, groom automation  backlog, performance and throughput statistics.  • Define and establish the software network infrastructure from scratch, reuse old storage servers and reduce  engineering costs.  • Automated the validation of REST APIs and functionality of network protocols like HTTP, SNMP, TFTP etc  • Track and report project performance/status and quality on various stages of software automation life-cycle.  • Co-ordinate release planning with PMs and product managers.  • Hire, train, supervise and motivate team members, manage company-wide quality initiatives.    Environment: Python 2.7, Linux , Pytest, PXE, Jenkins, SVN, Docker Containers and Virtualization, REST APIs,  Groovy, Shell Scripting, Ansible, No SQL(Redis), SQL server, Selenium, Sikuli, Testlink, Multi-mechanize, Jira Software Programmer Analyst Technofina services Inc November 2012 to October 2014 RailDOCS: It facilitates rail teams of Transportation with an easier online feature development process. It's a technology  platform that allows them to build the features where a project sponsor with a proposal and conceptual plan that provides  some level of operational improvement typically initiates Communications & Signals projects. All of these go through phases of Preliminary Engineering Authorization, Detailed Engineering, Construction and Authorization    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:  • Responsible for development and enhancements of all the Python modules.  • Lead a team of 3 software engineers and engineered stable, isolated environments.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi threading functionality.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.    Environment: Python 2.7, C++, Perl, Linux, Shell Scripting, Java Script, JQuery, JSON, MySQL, GDB, Mercurial,  Jira Applabs - Senior Software Engineer in Test Global Online System (GOS) May 2010 to June 2012 GOS is to provide game teams of EA Sports with online gaming process. It builds the features independent of users with the intention of custom implementations. It gives online gamers access to a number of  off-the-shelf game features ready to be integrated into the game, which rapidly accelerates online developments.    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:  • Responsible for implementing tests, getting the teams up and running with game record features.  • Automated monitoring of processes in testing, certification and production servers  • Automated the tests on APIs for Nucleus Entitlement management on the console.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization and validation of modules..  • Used Python, JQuery and JSON for generation of complex graphics.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Created authentication modules, views, models using Django.  • Used Python's modules numpy, matportlib etc. for generating complex graphical data & creation of histograms.  • Developed widgets using Tkinter, Gtk modules of Python.  • Written python automation scripts for unit testing. Used pyunit to run the tests.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.    Environment: Python 2.7, C++, Java, Confluence, Java Script, JQuery, JSON, R-script, XML, MySQL, GDB, CVS,  Bugzilla C++/ Python Developer Verizon Data Services March 2008 to May 2010 BAAIS Video: It is an automated system to assign provision and monitor Video signals over SONET/DWDM rings and GIGE circuits. The purpose of this project is to provide video signal from Video Hub Office to Video Service Office on  GigE Networks. All VHOs are connected by high speed GigE Network and Each Hub office are used to feed the signal in different GigE Network Rings. All the GigE Network Rings inherits the basic SONET property and Equipment like Add  Drop Multiplexer. BAAIS-Video System supports Optical and Electrical Networks and decides the signal flow. This is  Verizon's first automated multilayer provisioning and activation Operating Support System. It streamlines single order  provisioning and activation of the data, video, voice and VOIP services.    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:    • Responsible for setting up networks through Design and Development.  • Engineered various custom modules for integration of various types of network circuits.  • Developed memory managed design patterns for various GigE networks.  • Optimized the code using smart pointers, profilers and C++ Standard template library.  • Designed and built an effective Baais Video customization development environment for other developers to work  in.  • Directly responsible for various enhancements of Equipment updates/transmission of signals on OC/STS cables.  • Authored important Network APIs for Baais Video, developed user interface screens and solved customer  reported software bugs or issues.  • Used Purify, GDB and DBX for debugging/crash logs which helped in performance enhancement and optimization.  • Used various Design Patterns in provisioning the networks.  • Designed and implemented the orders for VNI, VHO, VSO, ONI etc., and their controllers as demanded for the applications design.  • Web development using Python and Django: Responsibilities for creation of Database, Business Logic to display  the records dynamically on template based on query, providing user permission to access particular features of the site.  • Used data structures, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Did Content Management through front end, live search and normal search features.  • Mentored junior members of the team with the software development methodologies used in the project.    Environment: C++, Linux, Python, Django, Windows, ShellScripting, MySQL Server, XML, GDB, Perforce, Code  Collaborator and Jira C++/ Java/Linux Developer CMC Ltd August 2006 to March 2008 Tank monitoring and Leak detection System: It's a Software Solution for Veeder-Root, a leading global supplier of automatic tank gauging and fuel management systems, which includes the Red Jacket brand of submersible pumps and  pressurized line leak detectors. This Software product gets control of the fuel management services including Alarm  management, Delivery Scheduling, Inventory Planning, Inventory Reconciliation, and leasing.    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:    • Coordinated with Design team to get the requirements for the release.  • Developed back end modules using C++/Linux/Windows.  • Directly responsible for development of several modules in two critical features- Tank Replacement System and Leak Notification, that helped simplify complex business environment through an integrated approach that  consolidates customer setup, regulation checking and payment visibility in a single location. Performance  enhancement has been from 25payments/sec to 43 payments/sec.  • Designed and developed various UI screens using QT features like QWidget, QMutex, QThread, QApp etc.    Environment: C++, C, Qt, Java, Linux, Windows, Shell Scripting, GDB, Microsoft Visual Studio .NET 2008, Microsoft  Visio Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering in CBIT Osmania University Skills C+ (7 years), Linux (10+ years), Python (10+ years), Scripting (7 years), Shell Scripting (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Solaris, Ubuntu ,Windows  Languages Python, C++, Java, C, SQL, Shell Scripting, Perl, QT, Groovy  Database SQL SERVER, Informix, Oracle, MYSQL, Redis  Internet Programming HTML, Java Script, PHP, XML,CSS,AJAX,JSON,Jquery,Web Services  Make,GDB, DBX, Purify, Eclipse, MSVisual Studio .Net 2008, MS Visio,Valgrind  Software Tools  Jenkins, Docker, Ansible  Version Control Tools SVN, CVS, Mercurial, CVS, Perforce, Code Collaborator