API Enablement Engineer API Enablement Engineer API Enablement Engineer - APIVista, LLC Developer with extensive frontend and backend experience in multiple languages with 4+ years experience as a  full-time developer doing everything from a simple form on the front-end to a fully tested, containerized RESTful  API plus experience teaching others and leading a team of developers. Also have fully remote experience and two  Microsoft Certifications. Work Experience API Enablement Engineer APIVista, LLC October 2018 to Present - Built out RESTful APIs to be used by developers using Swagger, NodeJs, Express, and Docker.  - Would fully test APIs using Mocha and Chai as well as Postman.  - Built out simple demo front-ends using React, React Native or Angular 6/7.  - Worked with team of remote developers located across North Carolina, Virginia and Pennsylvania. Node Developer March 2018 to September 2018 Lowe's Home Improvement, Contractor  - Worked as a remote Node developer on both lowes.com and lowesforpros.com on the MyLowes account  team. Built UI pages and back-end APIS as well as wrote tests to ensure code quality.  - Used Hapi to develop routing and Lowe's proprietary technology UI (Conduit) and CSS (Scaffold) in addition to Docker containers.  - Used automated build tools and continuous delivery methods to move things into the production  environment as quickly as possible. Python Automation Engineer Cisco February 2017 to February 2018 Contractor  - Worked with team of developers to write automated network test cases using Python. Generated network  traffic using 3 rd party API integration. Used Confluence to document code process and onboarding  procedures. Used JIRA to track issues and cross-team communication Coding Bootcamp Instructor ( Part-time) Wake Technical Community College September 2017 to December 2017 - Teaching a group of 10 folks how to write code and become programmers  - Covered HTML/CSS, Javascript, JQuery, Node, TDD, databases, Git, Visual Basic and C#  - Completed two Microsoft certifications to teach the class Coding Bootcamp Mentor (Part-Time) Thinkful March 2017 to August 2017 Contractor  - Meet with students 3x per week to cover curriculum, help debug code, etc  - We cover computer science fundamentals along with HTML/CSS, Javascipt, JQuery, Node, React,  testing, Git, deployments, etc. Web Developer Data Science, RTI International, Full-Time January 2016 to April 2016 Center for Data Science, RTI International, Full-Time  - Developed custom data visualizations on a project-basis using a wide variety of technologies, frameworks,  and databases like d3.js, React, Node, MongoDB, MySQL, Python, PHP, Nightwatch, jQuery, etc.  - Built 508 compliant accessible web applications and interactive data visualizations for the CDS. Software Developer Viztek November 2015 to January 2016 Contractor  - Full-stack Javascript development including to build and maintain medical imaging web application  - Worked on custom metrics dashboard feature that visualizes data using Highcharts for reporting and is fully customizable by the user Web Application Developer AT&T June 2015 to November 2015 and April 2016 -Feb. 2017  AT&T, Contractor  - Led team of 10 developers to redo the front-end of our enterprise software ticket correlation tool using React,  test-driven development, automated UI testing, and conducted all code reviews for the team  - Served on interview team that hired an entire team of developers for a new team in Dallas and in Raleigh  - Built custom metrics reporting page that visualized data for our ticket escalations tool using Google Charts  - Developed new tools/automation for the service assurance organization including web applications, mobile  applications, and back scripting automation solutions using HTML/CSS, Javascript, JQuery, MySQL and Perl Estimator/Assistant Project Manager Quality Electric Company June 2007 to June 2015 - Was the estimator for all jobs analyzed plans for bidding on jobs to estimate cost of materials and labor  - did accounting and filing for all jobs, income and expense reports, budgets, and other administrative tasks Education Masters of Divinity in Christian Ministries in Divinity Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary August 2007 to May 2010 Bachelors of Arts in History in IT and computer programming NC State University August 2004 to August 2007 Skills Backend Links http://github.com/lwfletch