Job Seeker Longmont, CO Work Experience 4th Party Software - Longmont, CO August 2016 to July 2018 Create web based environment to illustrate program flow and use Machine Learning to adjust visualization of program flow. Using Python, Angular, NodeJsJS, Segnet interface for Augmented Reality application. Developed mobile Android application. Support web sites used to evaluate business logic. KBMG - Louisville, CO August 2014 to May 2016 Data integration of Java application for Java application to integrate with HIVE and AWS back end.  Reconfigure test system to match production system to correct test frame mismatch. Extend data acquisition functions to support new data sources. Contract Java & Python Developer Digital Globe Inc - Longmont, CO June 2012 to June 2014 Satellite Imaging processing support. Support and development of components for satellite Tasking and Image Processing. Modify large existing Java & Javascript applications to add functionality and enhance query performance. Added Javascript scripting to greatly enhance responsiveness. Used .spring framework to create MVC interface, added AJAX layer to dynamically update web page. Add Selenium test  Federal Security clearance. Contract Java Developer Policy Studies Inc - Denver, CO January 2012 to May 2012 Data processing support. Debug of application and code correction for large insurance enrollment application. . Support of Test Frame for for time relevant processing. Modified PL/SQL in Test Frame. Contract Java and Javascript Developer Somalogic - Boulder, CO August 2011 to December 2011 Develop web interface to genetic information using MIT Simile Exhibits web tools. Correct defects in existing Java code base. Created Protein search tool and added JQuery Auto-complete for web entry fields. Apache Tomcat, Oracle, HTML5 LocalStorage extensions. Used MVC framework. Web Developer GoThere3D.com - Steamboat Springs, CO January 2010 to July 2011 Web pages that embed Google Earth using KML and Javascript. Sample can be viewed at GoThere3D.com Google Map Menu and OpenLayers extensions. 60 models accepted by Google as part of the 3D warehouse. Participate in Google content verification  Google Basecamp and 2010 & 2011 GIS in the Rockies attendee Development Programmer USDA - Fort Collins, CO July 2008 to March 2009 Develop and troubleshoot Billing system validation software.  Develop and QA Perl & Oracle PLSQL procedure for monthly processing  Design Web AJAX interface to retrofit existing web pages with tooltips, scrolling grids and timeline display.  AJAX tool development for timeline (MIT Simile) user interface, to display status to vendors.  Test automation, Regression Test frame. Development Programmer Louisville, CO 2007 to May 2008 Develop and troubleshoot Point of Sale interface to surveillance system, Xsl C++, Fedora, Javascrpt, Ajax Java:  Interface video system to Video Event libraries. Networking configuration.  Modify large existing C++/Xslt to include new device interface requirements  Debug system problems and provide corrections to existing code base  Design in Business Rule base class for XML and printer emulation interface. ..  AJAX tool development for MVC user interface. Development Programmer Mckesson - Louisville, CO 2004 to 2007 Develop and troubleshoot medical Tracking Board system, Oracle, Windows NT,:  Modify large existing C++/Oracle application to include new change requests  Debug system problems and provide corrections to existing code base, including a defect that had not been solved for 4 years. Debug TCP/IP and SOAP message packet interface.  Use Clearcase and StarTeam for source control. Assist in Object Oriented design of HL7 and Time zone interface. AJAX tool development. Development Programmer 4th Party Software - Longmont, CO 2003 to 2004 XML/Xslt, Perl scripting, AJAX, Java, JavaScript, Oracle, Windows NT, IE and Mozilla support, for details and resume see:  Twiki.CoEdit, a project to combine IRC and Twiki to make twiki pages editable by a group of users in a chat session. http://twiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/CoEdit  Google search integration with Twiki page creation:  http://twiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/XslWiki  Apache Tomcat setup and interface. Development Programmer Ingenix - Salt Lake City, UT 2000 to 2003 C++, SQL, Java, Oracle, Windows NT, UNIX HP-UX Environment  Oracle optimization of database access. Analysis of business rule needs and validation.  Medical claims processing optimization with stored procedures and data index optimization.  Medical procedure unbundle process. HIPPA requirements review and implementation.  Recommendation and review of HL7 v3 and XML standards to existing claims processing server.  Unix test scripts. Test Development Programmer Confertech/Global Crossing - Boulder, CO 1998 to 2000 Visual Basic, Java, VxWorks  Web stress tool development in Silk (Segue) & Visual Basic.  VMware, networking and T1 interface. Updates of embedded phone conferencing system.  Test automation against Java environment. Unix test scripts. Test Development Programmer Eastman Kodak - Boulder, CO 1997 to 1998 C++, Visual Basic  Stress and regression test development for Microsoft test group with regular trips to Microsoft HQ in Redmond, Washington. COM component development in C++ and Visual Basic. Host Dynamic Information Systems - Boulder, CO 1996 to 1997 Windows Interface Boulder CO 1996-1997  C/C++, Tuxedo, Visual Basic, UNIX Environment  Front-end customizations of 'Index kernel' running on Host. (Host running Unix, MVS, Dec, Rdb/VMS RMS VAX/VMS, HP-UX or MPE/IX).  Business rule query optimization of Tuxedo procedures using indexing.  Windows programming in MFC (C++) Visual Basic and Powerbuilder, Applications Programmer 4th Party Software - Longmont, CO 1992 to 1996 Visual Basic, Oracle, SQL, DOS and Windows environments  Visual Basic Extensions to SQA (test development), Mariner Systems.  CAD Symbol interlaces with Menu Generator from SQL, Query to SQL, I.G.S., Boulder.  Menu generation tool from Oracle Database with bitmap stored in support dynamic menu updates. Maptech Inc - Loveland, CO 1991 to 1992 GIS, GUI, DOS and Windows Environments  Rewrite and add GUI front-end and "as-you-go" graphics for survey software.  Rewrite sun/star shot software to use new data source and coefficient period Analyst International Corp., Staff Consultant Boulder, CO 1989 to 1991 CAD/CAM, PC Environment  3D DXF to/from IBMCAD translator with customer support and CAM extensions.  Menu front end IBMCAD, contract: IBM, Boulder. IBMCAD PC based CAD editor, DXF translator to/from Graphtek format.    Additional experience in Programming and Electrical Engineering not listed. Education license in Computer Science/Electrical Engineering University of Utah 2011 to 2017 Additional Information Twenty years of information technology experience, including application analysis and development. Strong experience with a wide range of applications and tools. Excellent candidate with strong programming, communication, and analysis skills.  Windows and UNIX Development.  Front End /UI including AJAX, JavaScript, HTML5, Visual Basic, Perl, JSP, Python & PHP.  Business Logic: Java, (6 years) C/C++, (7 years) J2EE Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, Pro-C/PL-SQL, XML/XSL, UML, .Net, RESTful and SOAP web-services, SAP. ArcGIS, FOSS4G  Back End:Oracle, SQL Server, Hadoop, MongoDB, MySQL, PostgresSQL.AWS S3  Testing Automation Experience(5 years) was gained while working for Eastman Kodak on a  Stress and regression Test Automation. Selenium test development.  Worked extensively with Scrum Agile and waterfall development teams.