Migration Specialist Migration Specialist Consultant New York, NY To obtain a position in a team player work environment. Providing me the opportunity to apply my dynamic,  resourceful and skilled I.T abilities. Seeking an environment where my professionalism can be used in a manner  satisfying your establishment's requirements, benefiting and supporting fellow employees and the customer through  job performance, reliability and the utmost in courtesy. Contributing to the establishment with a maximized bottom line  and career fulfillment for myself. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Migration Specialist Div digital - New York, NY May 2018 to Present Architect migration paths from various sources into Drupal or WordPress CMS. Write customized scraping scripts to analyze and migrate data assets. Consultant Mission Accomplish, Inc - New York, NY 2017 to 2018 New York    Managed the implementation of a large data set for a client in the financial sector that needed help profile  exchange information at scale. Spark, kubernates, hadoop, python and various other tools where used together to accomplish this complex but exciting project. The team consisted of 3 developers. Spark was recommended because of the way it can enhancing big data at scale. Python Senior Architect Weboperative, Inc - New York, NY 2017 to 2017 New York    Designed and Developed a complex bot that monitors crypto currency exchanges for price and RSI changes  using python 3. Implementation of asynchronous I/O programming throughout the entire project to handle scaling up  to 1 Million request per second if needed since the bot also scraped hundreds of websites using scrappy. This project  was a team of 3 developers and over 120k lines of code. IT currently monitors all major exchanges & social media  sites for sentiment analysis alerts. Tools used asyncio, aiohttp, pandas, scikit learn, scrappy, beautifulsoup,  postgresql & twython etc. Senior Linux Infrastructure Architect Tierra Resource Partners, LLC - New York, NY 2016 to 2017 New York    Designed and build custom cloud infrastructure with full disk encryption and data redundancy powered by the ZFSOnLinux file system. Implementation of Zabbix IDS to monitor file systems structure. Handle all new I.T  infrastructure design and monitoring of network traffic. Created a custom website using bootstrap running on Nginx,  MariaDB & PHP-FPM with daily incremental backups using zfs-snapshot. Setup OwnCloud integration with full  encryption support for media files powered by a hardened nginx setup. The whole Tierra RP network run in a LXCD  environment with a hardened kernel using grsecurity.net. Systems Infrastructure Architect Autoremind, Inc - New York, NY 2016 to 2016 New York    Orchestrated the design and build of ansible roles for various LAMP stack software packages and used  ansibles template engine to managed the various configuration files for each service. The systems build included  using cobbler to automate the installation of CentOS with a customized kickstart configuration file, this allowed the deployment of various barebone servers to be active within minutes not hours. Systems integrator Cablevision Systems, Inc - New York, NY 2014 to 2016 Handled traffic analyst to determine which services required migration to a new infrastructure. This included  analyzing various traffic data in their Apache daemon. Provided detailed analysis of production performance and implemented a LAMP stack upgrade along with benchmarks to determine best possible configuration for the stack.    Upgraded MySQL and fixed Apache performance by integrating MPM Worker versus PreFork and implemented a proper varnish setup along with memcached integration. Update PHP to current stable release and  reconfigured it to use the FastCGI Process Manager. Wrote backup scripts for the drupal environment using BASH  scripting, along with usage of the Drupal DRUSH tool for backup verification and testing. Release Engineer Lead GENTOO FOUNDATION - Albuquerque, NM 2009 to 2015 Lead engineer for their 10th year anniversary Linux liveDVD which included a wide array of open source  software. Downloaded by millions of users worldwide the Gentoo Linux liveDVD became popular for being able to showcase over 1,200 FOSS programs on multiple desktop environments and windows manager which prompted the  well respected "Linux Format" magazine to give it a top rating of 10/10 on July, 2012 praising it as the best Linux live  system ever made. Drupal Consultant NEIGHBORHOOD CHARTER SCHOOL OF HARLEM - New York, NY 2012 to 2014 New York    Providing custom Drupal front end and back end services to help the school serve students and families in a more engaging manner. I took over the site after the old developer left so I have been revamping the site as time  goes by removing obsolete and outdated practices done by the previous developer, helping the school transition to a complete redesign in the future. Drupal Consultant NYCE CAMP - New York, NY 2012 to 2013 New York  The NYCE Camp is the largest Drupal Community conferences in New York City which features 4 days of incredible drupal talent presenting various sessions on drupal. I have personally been involved in the Drupal NYC  monthly meetings since 2008 and have been a featured presenter on many occasions. Web developer / Consultant meetup.com - New York, NY 2012 to 2013 New York    Consulted on the use of Drupal for their main website which was a static HTML implementation. Developed  a Drupal 7 site with integration to meetup.com which includes latest meet up dates available on the http://nylug.org  website. Web Developer / Linux Integrator KETCHUM - New York, NY 2012 to 2012 New York    Provide performance tuning and site analysis for various FEDEX web properties that didn't handle traffic and became unstable at high loads. Improved apache web server connection rate 220% and performance penetration  testing on the CentOS server. Web Developer IMMERSI - Holland, MI 2010 to 2011 Provided custom web development using PHP and Drupal CMS for some of their client websites. Linux System Administrator STARING MARKETING - Chesterton, IN 2006 to 2009 Provided managed hosting for the company website and managed the cpanel implementation which included a DNS cluster setup and customized exim mail filters to combat spam. Implemented custom linux  environments utilizing various tools for monitoring including nagios and grsecurity.    Infrastructure Lead2002-2014  MISSION ACCOMPLISH, New York, New York    Implemented the design, layout and configuration of a complete Linux powered server infrastructure. Help  company use open source software in the early stages which helped provide a vast amount of security related  services to clients. Increased infrastructure security by moving from Windows based operating systems to Linux.  Migrated infrastructure to using Gentoo linux for all development and protection of client data using grsecurity and zabbix IDS. Front end Web Developer ATECH SYSTEMS - New York, NY 2000 to 2002 New York    Developed the first company website using PHP and helped with Internet marketing which helped the company rank high on search engines. Helped company transition to using the web to help promote their business  more by participating in relating website communities. Education High school or equivalent Skills front end (5 years), integration (4 years), integrator (4 years), Linux (10+ years), PHP (8 years), Migration specialist (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/freyes1 Additional Information TECHNOLOGY SKILLS    Hardware: Cisco routers/switches, Intel/AMD based servers  Operating Systems: UNIX, RedHat, OpenSUSE, CentOS, Fedora, Debian, Ubuntu, Arch & Gentoo Linux  Software:  ? Database: mysql, mariadb, mongodb, postgresql, Redis, riak  ? Web Server Software: apache, lighttpd, nginx, gatling, openresty  ? File systems: extfs, xfs, reiserfs, btrfs, zfs, ocfs2  ? Front end Web Development: html, css 3, sass, less, compass, singularity  ? Programming/Scripting Languages: python, php, perl, bash, ash, zsh, sh  ? Client Side Scripting: xml, rest, javascript, jquery, ajax, json, angularjs  ? Version Control Systems: cvs, svn, git, mercurial  ? Content Management Frameworks: wordpress, drupal, django  ? Linux Security: selinux, grsecurity, rkhunter, paxctl, cryptsetup, aide, sleuthkit  ? Linux Debugging Tools: lsof, fuser, ps, top, htop, which, file, ldd, gdb, dtrace, strace. iostat, lspci, lshw  ? Log Monitoring & Analysis: logrotate, syslog-ng, splunk  ? Infrastructure Monitoring: zabbix, monit, samhain, nagios  ? Network Analytics: netcat, nmap, snort, rrdtool, portmon, portsentry, tcpdump, traceroute, wireshark  ? Networking: apachetop, iftop, arping, netstat, iwconfig, ifconfig, route, bind, ipsec, iptables, nftables  ? Data Management: lvm2, mdadm, zfs raid, rsync, ddrescue, sfdisk, badblocks, smartctl, shred, mknod  ? Virtualization: xen, vmware, virtualbox, qemu, openstack, vagrand, docker, lxc, lxd, rump kernels  ? Authentication Protocols: ldap, kerberos, pam, sasl, ssh, openvpn  ? Configuration Management: chef, puppet, cfengine  ? Continuous Integration: jenkins, hudson, travis, saltstack, ansible, udeploy, bamboo    SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS  • Experience in MySQL clustering and replication setup and deployment.  • Performance tuning of LAMP stack application including MySQL,PHP,Apache,NGINX and MemCached  • Custom Linux kernel implementation and configuration skills  • Experience in device mapper crypt implementation, have setup full disk encryption using dm-crypt and luks  (Linux Unified Key Setup) with custom linux initramfs for remote server setups to allow decryption of remote  hard drives  • Advanced in ZFS implementation using RAIDZ or Mirrored arrays with automated system snapshots using  custom scripting  • Experienced setting up zabbix IDS to handle the monitoring of thousands of servers. I have implemented  this for various clients with great success and feedback. This is the latest IDS around, way more advanced  than Nagios  • Experience in Linux container technology including LXC,Docker and Rocket. Have setup custom lxc and  docker architectures in Gentoo Linux  • Knowledge of mdadm/dmraid using various difference file systems including extfs{3,4}, xfs & jfs  • Long time Linux developer for the Gentoo Linux project, currently lead for the livedvd release which is due to  be released in a few weeks  • All around expert at cyber security methods within the Linux kernel userspace. Grsecurity & SELinux.