Web Application Developer Web Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Portland, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Application Developer MammothHR - Portland, OR January 2017 to Present Maintenance and feature development on Mammoth's HR Services & Content Platform. Mainly used Ruby/Rails and Ember to provide a white labeled website service for clients to submit HR tickets and find HR content. Also included building REST/JSON APIs to submit tickets and update client information. Freelance/Contract Web Development Various - Spokane, WA July 2014 to January 2017 Responsibilities  I've worked with multiple clients to help build various projects in various capacities. I've been responsible for doing full CMS setups and deployments, front-end work designing and building out HTML/CSS/JS for websites, to dealing with databases and email servers.    Accomplishments  I was able to complete each project on time and make my clients happy and continue to want to work with me in the future, while also providing a quality product.    Skills Used  I used lots of communication skills to go through the entire software development life-cycle with my clients, trying to get better requirements so I can make what they want a reality. On the tech side I've used Ruby, PHP, JS, SCSS, HTML, Ruby on Rails, Foundation, CraftCMS, Wordpress, MySQL, MongoDB, and ElasticSearch to build projects. Ruby/ Python Developer Registered Agents Inc. - Spokane, WA December 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities  I was tasked with building out the company's main data search infrastructure, which mostly included a large scale web scraping system to gather information from far flung sources on the web. In addition to this I functioned as a Linux sys admin, API designer, front-end developer, Ruby engineer, and essentially a jack-of-all-trades when it came to software at the company.    Accomplishments  I built the web scraping system from scratch and added server monitoring, an API system to query in real-time from the web, as well as data warehousing and querying the collected data. Used Amazon Web Services for both database and server deployments.    Skills Used  I used Ruby, Python, Redis, Resque, and PostgreSQL to build the web-scraping engine, including submitting some code and documentation back to the open source projects we used. I also used HTML, CSS, JS, PHP, and Sinatra to build out a web interface for the database. Web Developer NXNW: A Digital Studio - Spokane, WA October 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities  I was responsible for turning a client's goals into a functioning website that met those goals. I worked with a team going through the entire development process, helping with gathering requirements from a client, to designing those requirements into a layout, and then building that layout to be used with a CMS.     Accomplishments  I helped complete multiple projects, and helped guide our teams work process, while discovering what worked well for our team and what didn't work well. I also spoke with and responded to problems clients had with their websites and worked to fix them while communicating with the client to make sure they were satisfied with the results.    Skills Used  I used lots of interpersonal communication skills working with different people. I also used tech skills like HTML, CSS, JS, PHP, Drupal (CMS), Craft (CMS), Twig Templates, and MySQL to help build out the projects. Web Application Developer SiteCrafting, Inc - Spokane, WA October 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities  I helped my team build high quality custom websites for clients. I was mainly focused on setting up the customized CMS and templates to allow the client to edit their website content easily and functionally. I worked on projects with both a team and by myself, and completed a number of projects for a number of clients in various industries. I also helped to produce and update an application built on PhoneGap using XCode and Android development platforms.    Accomplishments  I helped complete many website projects and pushed them through to launch. I also worked to clean up the company's code deployment platform and helped with front-end and back-end server coding, including learning an ORM system to help write code for the company's proprietary CMS.    Skills Used  During this job I used lots of PHP, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS. I also learned Obj-C and XCode, as well as using Java and SQL to help build out the PhoneGap application. JavaScript Real-time Online Game Board Code Night Kids June 2012 to September 2012 With a friend, we built out a system using JavaScript, Node.js, and websockets (socket.io library) to create a real-time online game board to play board games with friends over the internet. Some of the features we built were room systems so multiple games could be played on the same server, a chat system, a dice tool, drag and drop game setup, and playing card manipulation tools. Technical Consultant Eastern Washington University June 2011 to June 2012 • Provided maintenance and support for computer hardware across the campus  • Created, propagated, and maintained images for 140+ Windows/Macintosh computers in a lab setting  • Used Norton Ghost and Faronics Deepfreeze to maintain integrity of the images  • Helped in the interviewing and hiring process of applicants applying at the lab Senior Project - Chinese Calligraphy Analysis September 2011 to May 2012 I built out a system with my senior project team to automatically process and clean images of calligraphy with the eventual goal of identifying the handwriting of the artist. Our team researched various algorithms and methods to clean up the images as well as algorithms to properly segment the calligraphic characters to create an image database to compare characters. We used Python, and MySQL in this app. Lab Consultant Eastern Washington University August 2008 to June 2011 • Answered basic computer helpdesk and information questions for students using the computer lab  • Cleaned and helped maintain functionality of the computer lab Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science Eastern Washington University September 2008 to June 2012 Skills Ruby (6 years), Python (1 year), CSS3 (4 years), PHP (4 years), SCSS (1 year), PostgresSQL (2 years), MySQL (3 years), Java (2 years), MongoDB (Less than 1 year), HTML (5 years), Git (3 years), Linux (4 years), Mac OS X (4 years), Javascript (6 years), EmberJS (2 years), Ruby on Rails (3 years), Rust (1 year), Amazon Web Services (1 year), Jquery Links http://idontquiteunderstand.com https://dfockler.github.io https://github.com/dfockler Additional Information Languages and Skills  • Proficient with Java, Java Swing, C, Object Oriented Design, Agile Development  • Experienced using Python, C#, PHP, HTML, CSS, Verilog, SQL  • Familiar with Objective C, C++, Ruby, JavaScript, MIPS Assembly    Software Tools  Android API, Apache, Eclipse, Ettercap, Faronics Deepfreeze, GCC, Git, Icarus Verilog, JUnit, Linux/  Unix, Metasploit Framework, MySQL, Node.js, Norton Ghost, OllyDBG, PCSpim, SVN, Quartus II,  Visual Studio, Virtual Machines, Windows XP-7, Wireshark