Chatbot developer Chatbot <span class="hl">developer</span> Website/ChatBot developer/internet marketing consultant - localvideokings.com - 313chatbots.com Charter Township of Clinton, MI In applying for the position I will be utilizing knowledge I acquired through years of factory and management work. I bring a very easy going personality and also am a very hard worker. I will be a good addition to your team because getting the job done right is what I strive for. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Chatbot developer 313chatbots.com - Clinton Township, MI January 2015 to Present I am Experience with chatbots, speech recognition and big data techniques. Programming Expert --- C, C++, Python, C#.Net and Java localvideokings.com - Clinton Township, MI 2012 to Present Responsibilities  Programming Expert --- C, C++, Python, C#.Net and Java    Accomplishments  Itt Tech    Skills Used  My Experience...  IT professional with more than 6 years of industry experience in:    C/C++  JavaHTML, PHP, JS  SQL  Python  Game Developing  Simulation  Data base  Web Development  Software Development  App Development  Facebook marketing software  Social media advertising specialist  Innovative viral marketing campaigns Website designer/ Internet marketing https://insta.coupons/ - Clinton Township, MI January 2010 to Present Clinton township, MI  Website developer that specialize and perform all task that include website building,social media updating and website updating. Specialize in lead generation and internet marketing Also video marketing, Social media marketing, Email marketing And Search engine optimization. Experience with MS Office And MS Excel. Line Worker S and K staffing - Charter Township of Clinton, MI September 2007 to February 2009 Production worker in a factory making car parts Toy department Manager Shoppers World - Detroit, MI April 2004 to June 2008 Assist customers, stock toys, put together bikes and handle all questions in regards to toys. Night Manager Car Wash - Detroit, MI March 2002 to February 2004 Wash cars take money drop money off at bank and also fix converter belt when needed. Janitorial Supervisor Law Janitorial - Detroit, MI January 1999 to December 2002 Perform duties such as waxing floors Vacuuming floors Emptying trash Minor repairs on Doors and windows Cleaning FIA and local rec centers around Detroit Cook/Drive Thru KFC - Detroit, MI August 1999 to November 2001 Cook food,prep food and clean building. Work drive thru provide customer service and teamwork.     Professional Skills  Web-designer - Expert  Medical billing - Advanced Education computer programming in computer programming ITT TECH - Charter Township of Clinton, MI 2008 to 2010 Medical Billing Everest institute - Detroit, MI 2006 to 2007 Kettering High School - Detroit, MI June 2000 Skills HTML, XML, SQL Server, Linux, SQL, jQuery, Javascript Links https://localvideokings.com Certifications/Licenses Driver's License