Senior developer for business Senior <span class="hl">developer</span> for business Senior C++/Java Developer Hinsdale, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior developer for business Citadel, LLC April 2005 to September 2017 -critical servers and applications supporting the trading and financing book (position management). My development responsibilities encompassed all aspects of the group's function including maintenance and enhancement of existing C++ servers, design and implementation of additional servers and client C++ APIs to support new business functions, development of process monitoring-and-restart software, developer (guru) support for my team as well as client developers coding to our APIs, and business support for PnL-related and other data-related queries.    Ancillary responsibilities include management of the software VOBs and (git) repositories, development procedures and scripts to support our branch development strategy, and the server build and packaging wrappers.    In addition, I have migrated existing software to new platforms and backend databases, migrated large databases to new schemas, implemented server configuration management to support 13 platform environments (including 'layered'), and I enhance/maintain our groups financing web services.    Technologies commonly used are C++, Python, Perl, Ice, TIB, MQ, SQL (Sybase ASE, Sybase IQ, MS SQLServer) and shell scripting. Senior Java Developer GE Medical Systems - Milwaukee, WI June 2003 to April 2005 Design and implementation of many advanced features for a new Java-based component-oriented application framework, including the addition of certificate-based security, versioning, dependency resolution, and validation of loaded components, as well as additional component and application-level services such as a pluggable application failure handler, pluggable prestart and poststop tasks, and an XML formatted application descriptor. Miscellaneous improvements were also made to the overall robustness of the framework itself.    Also contributed several advanced components for the following tasks: availability monitoring, performance metrics accumulation and persistence (with HTTP-based remote interface), and thread services (heartbeat and exception monitoring, thread factories, thread pools, etc).    Implementation of middle-tier components for abstracting data access of GUI components to backend data sources as well as implementation of a special adapter for accessing remote data sources via TFTP.    Complete redesign and refactoring of an existing data model to improve performance and cohesion, support internationalization, and support units-of-measure conversions.    Miscellaneous improvements to the codebase build, unit testing, and code metrics reporting infrastructure.    Technologies used include Java (Windows and Linux), Ant, JUnit, Eclipse (IDE), TogetherJ (UML), Checkstyle, Clover (code coverage), Log4J, CVS, HTTP. Python/C++ Contract Developer UBS Warburg - Chicago, IL January 2003 to June 2003 Design and implementation of automated test harness for a Fixed-Income trading system. Technologies used include C++, Python, XML/DOM, SWIG, RDBMS, and CORBA. High availability wrapper, process manager, and sanity monitor for Apache Lucent Technologies - Naperville, IL October 2000 to October 2002 Naperville, IL.    Object oriented design, implementation, and documentation of the following high availability and multithreaded servers and components:    ? Alarm, state, and event management middle-tier for a new telecom product, using Java, RMI, JNI, and Rose.  ? High availability wrapper, process manager, and sanity monitor for Apache/Tomcat, using Java, Sockets, and Rose.  ? Java/J2EE-based departmental website using Tomcat, Apache, MySQL, and Jakarta.  ? Java/RMI-based fault-tolerant naming service.  ? Socket-based network event management server, used by embedded telecom applications, using C++, Sockets, and Rose    Followed Lucent's development methodology which includes extensive documentation for each stage of development using Rational Rose, Rational Rose RealTime (UML tools) and Microsoft Word.    Additional work:  ? Spearheaded the introduction of the use of UML-based modeling and code generation using Rational tools in my department. Involved extensive work to adapt existing development methodologies and procedures to accommodate the use of these new technologies.  ? Designed a sophisticated network management framework, similar to JMX, using UML/Rose, C++, and XML.  ? Implemented approximately 15K lines of state-machine based control commands for administration of a new wireless telecom platform.  ? A portable C++-based, object oriented Socket package with Secure Socket Layer capability (based on OpenSSL).  ? A iostream-based event logging package.  ? A C++-based unit-test framework (based on CppUnit).  ? Java-based redesign of existing audit controller to support runtime extensibility using a custom written class loader.    Contributed significantly to the architecture and design of each projects, including the design several components which were implemented by other team members. Heavily mentored other team members in OO techniques and implementation technologies (UML, C++, Java, JNI, etc). Team leader producing an custom-built Java Edventions - Skokie, IL April 1999 to October 2000 Perl, HTML-based web appliance for grades K - 8, which featured chat, e-mail, protected Internet access, lesson-viewing, quiz taking/grading, bulletin posting/viewing, and networking functions such as firewalling, and routing.    Twice received management recognition including " developer-of-the-year".    Roles included:  ? Server-side team lead: made technology decisions, planned the implementation, and led the server team for the first production release. Personally implemented approximately 50% of the initial release including all of the critical database-related edit/update screens.  ? Infrastructure team lead: developed all corporate infrastructure software related to product development, including the server production process, the fleet monitoring software and procedures, and the Java/CORBA-based fleet automatic software update and release rollout system. Directed and oversaw the efforts of the fleet system administrators.  ? Development process lead: Implemented the development process including code management and source control, Q/A verification, and integration with the automated software update system.  ? Security and networking specialist: implemented both corporate and fleet firewalls; developed network architectures, and debugged fleet network problems.  ? Mentor: mentored other team members in O-O and the development of production-quality software.    Other work for Edventions:  Designed and implemented part of a C++/CORBA-based application server including the core business objects and application logic.    Designed and partially implemented a J2EE-based load/stress testing facility for high-traffic e-commerce sites. The design included a public website for managing user accounts, server test jobs, performance results, etc as well as a backend cluster farm for executing load/stress test scripts. The Web frontend was Servlet/JSP-based (Apache, Tomcat) and the middle tier was EJB-based using JBoss and PostgreSQL. Contract Senior Software Developer Navistar - Oakbrook Terrace, IL February 1996 to October 1997 Extensively enhanced and refactored a Motif-based proprietary dealer truck specification and ordering system including the redesign of major portions of the business logic and GUI.    Pioneered the application of C++ and OO design as a successful strategy to control the growing complexity of the largely procedurally-based application.    All work was documented using Microsoft Word and a class diagram drawing tool. Postdoctoral Research Associate Fermi National Lab - Batavia, IL January 1995 to February 1996 Developed a distributed, graphical, real-time hardware monitoring system for a FNAL neutrino fixed-target experiment. The implementation included one of the earliest applications of 'mobile agent' technology (using TCL).    Constructed a 60-node parallel-processing cluster, implemented the message-based control software, and refactored existing software to execute on the cluster. Education Ph.D. in Physics University of Texas - Dallas, TX M.S. in Physics University of Texas - Dallas, TX B.S. in Physics Northeast Louisiana University - Monroe, LA