Python/Javascript Senior Applications Developer <span class="hl">Python</span>/Javascript Senior Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Flash Griffin, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python/Javascript Senior Applications Developer Cloud Sherpas - Atlanta, GA September 2014 to Present Responsibilities  General application development using Python, Javascript, HTML/CSS, and AngularJS, with strong integration with Cloud Technologies. Grew a solid understanding of Google Cloud Platform, including Compute Engine, App Engine, Cloud Datastore, Cloud SQL and Cloud Storage. Created estimates for a number of projects, including requirements gathering and research into various technologies. HTML5/Javascript Developer The Home Depot - Atlanta, GA July 2013 to August 2014 Assist in the development of an internal software system deployed onto Windows CE and Android smartphones for use in inventory and merchandising purposes by in-store associates. Included building pages using Backbone, Require, Underscore, jQuery and an in-house framework. Created much more intelligible documentation for established processes. Assisted with requirement gathering and planning for client and server interoperability. Flash/Javascript Developer and Graphic Designer Curriculum Advantage - Lawrenceville, GA December 2010 to June 2013 Responsibilities: In-house AS3, Flash and HTML5/Javascript Developer. Responsible for all new  Flash and HTML5/JS projects and maintaining/upgrading current and legacy programs. Fixed bugs and created new functionality in Java using the Google Web Toolkit (GWT). Develop front end logic for projects using GWT Designer. Develop graphing applications using Sencha Touch, targeting  tablets. Keep up with and advise on trends dealing with Adobe Flash and tablet development. Flash Developer/Graphic Designer Novologic - Lawrenceville, GA September 2010 to October 2010 Responsibilities: Creating and developing in a rapid production oriented team environment flash web  pages and elements, using Adobe Flash CS5 and Actionscript 3.0. Learned and implemented  custom classes built in house for different Flash components, and followed strict coding practices to keep everything easily maintained in the future. Graphic Designer Eyesore Inc Website Development - Griffin, GA December 2008 to September 2010 Responsibilities: Designing for web and print, develop websites in HTML and CSS. Designing and developing all Flash related projects, which included a multi-page website with music, programmed  animated elements, content stored in XML files and javascript hooks for analytics and a project  which required integrating Box2DFlash for accurate physics. Owner/President Progress Tech & Design - Griffin, GA April 2007 to December 2008 Responsibilities: Sole proprietorship which created designs for print and web, website design and development including Flash animations, computer maintenance and troubleshooting. Graphic Designer/IT Manager GT Architecture - Jonesboro, GA April 2005 to April 2007 Responsibilities: Designing for print, including large presentation displays, architectural renderings,  fliers and billboards. Computer maintenance. Graphic Designer/IT Manager Royal Realty/Tradewinds Communities - Stockbridge, GA November 2004 to April 2005 Responsibilities: Designing for print and web, computer maintenance. Education Associates in C & , Web Site Design Griffin Technical College - Griffin, GA 2001 to 2004 Skills Graphic Design (6 years), Javascript (4 years), Python (1 year), Photoshop (6 years), Illustrator (6 years), HTML5 (5 years), CSS (3 years), Java (1 year) Links https://andrewf.carbonmade.com/ Additional Information Summary of Qualifications  6+ years experience as a graphic designer and 6+ years as a software developer in a wide variety of environments and roles. Strong understanding of the relationships between design, front-end and back-end development for applications (full stack). Proficient in all versions of Photoshop, Illustrator, and development using Javascript/HTML/CSS. Very experienced in Python, Flash, Actionscript 2 & 3, and multiple versioning systems. Strong working knowledge in Google Cloud Platform, AngularJS/Backbone/Bootstrap/Jquery/etc, Java, SQL, Maya, Lightwave, Blender and other design and development programs. Experienced in designing and developing for mobile and tablet environments, including responsive web design.  Interpersonal Profile  Self-motivated and self-challenged learner continually educated in current trends in design, development and general technology.  Demonstrated ability to to understand, document, prioritize and estimate projects, and assisting in coordinating teams to implement, test, and deliver multiple projects.  Proven very strong communication, analytical, problem solving, and organizational skills, including great client facing communication and respect.  Career Accomplishments  Quickly came up to speed with the offerings from Google Cloud Platform, and managed to juggle multiple projects and maintain client relationships.   Commended for a leadership, responsibility and reliability in leading, developing and maintaining a number of mobile apps using RhoMobile and PhoneGap, helping organize team members during extensive debugging processes and being known for taking ownership of whatever tasks given to me, and getting things done.  Built a reputation for learning and interpreting requirements, updating specification docs intelligently, and pushing for answers when requirements weren’t clearly stated.  Responsible for rapidly designing and developing the front end for a charts-based app which pulled data from a central server, targeting Android tablets and iPads, using a beta version of the Sencha Touch framework.  Became the in-house expert on the roles Flash and HTML5/JS can fill in the ever expanding tablet and mobile environment, helping guide management decisions on how to expand the company’s product into the tablet market.   Rebuilt from scratch 4 major educational game and test taking projects in AS3 which were built originally in C++, making sure to develop an understandable and manageable base engine utilizing distinct components that can be easily worked with.  Client-facing designer and Flash developer in a fast-paced startup, helping solidify the young company’s reputation as a pleasant and reliable company to work with.  Organized a successful sole-proprietorship graphic design and IT firm. Managed the business on a small budget and developed a loyal client base.  Created all advertisements, improved efficiency, and handled the strict deadlines and guidelines for a successful multi-county coupon mail-out booklet.