Consultant Consultant Olathe, KS Michael is a technology manager with over twenty years of experience directing the development and maintenance of a variety of systems for both large and small organizations. His specialty is working with business experts, identifying the technical and non-technical needs, and delivering timely solutions. Michael enjoys working through business change and has demonstrated the necessary skills to effectively communicate to peers and senior management. He would be an asset to any team tasked to complete a difficult project. Work Experience Consultant Forsa Technologies - Leawood, KS February 2017 to March 2018 Development of SAAS Spatical Software product for gas and petroleum industries to address Public Awareness regulatory requirements. Utilized Java, Spring MVC, JavaScript, SQL Server, and MongoDB. DevOps Manager Bats Global Markets, Inc - Lenexa, KS December 2015 to September 2016 Provide leadership of team responsible for day to day operational support of the core trading system and applications supporting Bats U.S. based markets. Manage the incident management process and aggressively drive troubleshooting and resolution of open issues. Support various daily configurations changes required fo the core trading platforms. Analyze and optimize trading platform. Actively participate in implementation efforts for special projects and drive to completion. Obtained both Series 7 and 63 licenses. Owner Adeo Works LLC - Olathe, KS July 2013 to December 2015 Olathe, KS  Providing specialized Software Development. Client work included: Pension & Benefit management System, Insurance Management Systems, Website Development, and Project Management. Provided guidance for software development for Java 6 (3-tier architecture, Play, SQL-Server) Wordpress 4, Joomla 2.5/3.4, Drupal 6/7 (MySql) utilizing various PHP Frameworks. Director of Information Technology Church of the Nazarene - Lenexa, KS April 2004 to July 2013 Responsible for directing all aspects of the Information Technology department: Software Development, Network Operations, and Desktop Support. Responsibilities also included management of budgets, policies, procedures; vendor contract negotiations, ensuring compliance of policies and procedures; establishing standards regarding hardware, software and equipment replacement schedule; managing software/hardware upgrades; coordinating automation needs and requirements; developing and maintaining IT customer service metrics; overseeing server  administration and network troubleshooting; and strategic planning. Development utilized Java 6 (Play, Hibernate, Spring, Jasper, MS SQL-Server Enterprise). Guided internet development in Joomla 1.5/2.5, Drupal 6, PHP Codeigniter framework). Responsibility included analysis, requirements gathering, Java code reviews, and debugging sessions with the development team. Consultant Honeywell & Hallmark Cards - Overland Park, KS October 2002 to April 2004 Utilized technical skills to identify and document existing business processes. Captured requirements at the business, user, and technical level to achieve cost saving objectives for the distribution centers. Coached team members to achieve a successful implementation of the Unified Process (UP), Rational Rose (Modeling Tools for UML), and Requisite Pro. As a Java and JSP developer, worked with the java development team to develop a defect management/tracking system for Honeywell and a product distribution system for Hallmark Cards. Python Developer Fetting & Associates - Olathe, KS July 2001 to October 2002 Provided technical skills to solve business problems. Produced Requirements Definition, Analysis, Design, Development, and Implementation Documents. Developed publishing industry system for managing the use of copyrighted content. Website development utilizing Python. Desktop Application development included Microsoft Access, Excel, Word, and MS-SQL. Director of Engineering & Consultant Raviant Networks, Inc - Leawood, KS April 1998 to July 2001 Provided leadership for ongoing activities within the engineering organization, activities included resource management, budget planning, and technology based decision-making. Assisted the National Sales Team with client site visits, and led technical discussions. Clients included Cisco, MCI, and Sprint. Organization included 20 direct reports. Managed Telecommunication customer focused consulting practice. Utilized the SS7 protocol, UML, Rational Rose, Java, and industry standard telephony test equipment to meet business objectives. As a consultant, worked as a lead test engineer for automated testing of call setup and teardown of ATM Switching Platform. Technical Architect Claremont Technology Group, Inc - Overland Park, KS November 1996 to April 1998 Directed the development of a Smalltalk (IBM Visualage) application to manage errors submitted by various internal and external billing systems for Sprint. Directed a team of 8 developers, 3 testers, and 1 technical writer. Facilitated OOAD, JAD sessions, guided coding decisions, and managed resource activities associated with completing the project on schedule Team/Project Manager Imonics, Inc - Cary, NC July 1995 to October 1996 Managed a U.S. based development effort to deliver an international version of workflow, imaging, scanning, and correspondence system to Deutsche Telekom AG, largest European telecommunications company and the third largest carrier worldwide. Managed 8 direct reports. Developed in C++, ENCINA 3-Tier DCE, and ORACLE within a SUN development environment. Traveled to Germany to support the implementation of the fraud avoidance system. Developed a claim-filing interface for a three-tier insurance billing management system used in the Health Care Industry. Utilized C++, SYBASE, and ENCINA 3-Tier DCE in the development of the system. Team/Project Manager NORTEL, Inc - Research Triangle Park, NC January 1988 to June 1995 Designed and developed a client server based process for material planners to assign product shortages to specific stockrooms for order fulfillment. Implemented a real-time system that replaced a daily 300-page report.    Responsible for the requirement definition, executive presentations, and coaching team members through the implementation of a Warehouse Management System for the East Coast Distribution Center. Negotiated with vendors on system software for improving inbound and outbound truck scheduling, control cross docking, and reduce cycle time associated with material handling.    Lead negotiations with external vendors, interviewed and hired contractors, defined project task, led presentations, and managed team members to develop a Warehouse Management System for the Nashville, Raleigh, and Toronto manufacturing facilities. Awarded the 1994 Presidents Award for Teamwork for implementing the projects utilizing teams in three locations.    Guided the development of a Mutli-platform delivery system (X-Terminal) for Material Safety Data Sheet Information. Developed the requirements, documentation, project task definitions, and led executive presentations. Assisted the Health and Safety Manager with contract negotiations with external vendor for acquiring a Material Safety Data Sheet database subscription. Directed development staff.    Guided the development of the On-Line Procedure System. Designed, developed, and implemented a process for delivering operations procedures to the production environment. Developed during the companies ISO-9000 Quality Audits and highlighted during the certification process. Utilized the Interleaf document repository, Framemaker authoring tool (Adobe/Frame Technology Corp), and internal system development to form a seamless integration for delivery of electronic documents for viewing on Windows, Apple Mac, and X Terminal devices. The system supported more than 500 viewing stations throughout North America.    Coordinated a business process team in documenting the entire Customer Service Center process flow. Team authored the documentation that was used to direct the business process improvements as the organization shifted to a shelf directed work force philosophy. Utilized Project Management, Team Building, and Problem Solving skills to successful complete the report.    Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained a PC based shipping manifest system with real-time communication to the mainframe system. External device interfaces included printers, weight scale, and serial communications to the host. UPS and RPS carriers certified the system for compliance with shipping standards.    Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained software relating to the operation of a Customer Service Center. Interviewed contractors, created project task lists, led development presentations, and mentored junior team members. Key projects: Order Allocation/Fulfillment, Cycle-Count development, Order Entry, Shipping, and Receiving Systems. Education Northwest Nazarene University - Nampa, ID November 2014 Master's MidAmerican Nazarene University - Olathe, KS July 1999 MBA North Carolina Wesleyan College - Raleigh, NC May 1993 Additional Information SKILLS PROFILE  - Python - Resource Management  - PHP  - JAVA    - Change Management  - Project Management    - MySQL & MS SQL SERVER  - C++    - Rational Unified Process (RUP)  - Agile Software Development