Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer with FP&A and SQL background Georgetown, TX Entry Level Python Developer Position Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Self - Austin, TX September 2018 to Present • Learning Python language along with related tools and frameworks such as Django, Pandas, Numpy  • Implementing GitHub for source control for projects Senior Financial Analyst Serenova - Austin, TX April 2016 to August 2018 • Review Amazon Web Services (AWS) Billing and provide a summary by Linked Accounts and Product  • Use Adaptive Planning Insights to review Actual vs Forecast/Plan  • Review and compile monthly Telco Billing data to provide GL Summary for Accounts Payable  • Update chart data of Telco Billing for review with Procurement & Teleservices to monitor trends  • Analyze quarterly performance by comparing budget and forecasts to actual  • Ad hoc reports Senior Financial Reporting Analyst Actian Corporation - Austin, TX 2013 to 2015 Financial Reporting Analyst Actian Corporation 2006 to 2013 • Month end close tasks involving updating reporting data  • Revenue forecasting  • Financial Operations review by collecting estimates from managers and updating executive reporting  • Commissions processing for all Sales departments  • Administrator of Essbase Expense and Revenue outlines and data uploads  • Ad hoc reports Financial Reporting Analyst OMNI Life Science - Vista, CA 2005 to 2006 • Administer data warehouse tables and OLAP cubes for Sales and Accounting.  • Maintain Executive and Director level sales reports.  • Process and distribute internal financial reports for management.  • Maintain Budget and Forecast data for P&L and Sales reports.  • Update Solomon FRx reports and Crystal Reports. Financial Analyst NuVasive - San Diego, CA 2004 to 2005 • Created and maintained reports for Finance, Accounting, Sales, Marketing and Executive management.  • Processed and distributed internal financial reports for management and executive management.  • Provided dashboard data for executive management.  • Administered data warehouse table for reporting. Financial Analyst Websense - San Diego, CA 2000 to 2004 • Generated and maintained monthly Key Performance Indicator reports using Crystal Reports.  • Administered data warehouse data table for KPI reports.  • Loaded month-end P&L and Balance Sheet data to Hyperion Planning system utilizing SQL queries.  • Provided monthly reports from ADP Payroll system using Access to extract data from ADP tables.  • Generated ad hoc reports for different departments such as Accounting and HR using SQL queries.  • Created data warehouse of billings information from Great Plains Sales, Parts and GL tables. Management Information Systems Analyst First American CREDCO - Poway, CA 1996 to 1999 • Developed reports and provided analysis of client and billing data to management, accounting and sales.  • Used SQL to query client and billing system database that resided on an Informix and SQL Server platform. Education Master of Science in Business Administration San Diego State University December 1999 Bachelor of Science in Business Administration San Diego State University December 1994 Skills Python (Less than 1 year), SQL (10+ years), Fp&A, Financial Planning, Financial Modeling, MySQL, Django (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), Excel (10+ years), Access (10+ years) Links https://github.com/sammyrTX/ Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: Airman First Class 1987 to 1990 Avionics Communications Specialist