Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> • Strong 14+ Years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Experienced in Python, Django, JavaScript, MongoDB, and Oracle.  • Experienced in SQL/NoSQL Databases and completed training on MongoDB.  • Experienced on HiveQL  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.X, Django 1.X  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, Oracle and No-SQL databases like MongoDB.  • SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, and using the latest features to optimize performance (Bulk Binds, Materialized views, Inline views, Global Temporary Tables)  • Extensive experience in troubleshooting development problems across multiple environments and operating platforms.  • Experienced in development, troubleshooting, debugging program bugs, maintenance and reliability problems.  • Experienced in Waterfall and Agile-Scrum methodology.  • Worked on multiple projects and responsible for task planning, risk management and performance reviews.  • Experienced in effort estimation and evaluating the design and development needs of the client.  • Outstanding communication, analysis, and out-of-the-box/creative problem solving.  • Energetic self-starter with problem solving, technical and communication skills. Ability to prioritize and manage multiple tasks in a fast-paced environment has been an added advantage. Work Experience Python Developer Client - Comcast - Englewood, CO August 2013 to Present Efficacy - Voice Provisioning System (VPS) is to provide a cost effective automated solution for provisioning Telephony Subscribers by managing pre-provisioning and installation activities. VPS provides a highly scalable, configurable and self correcting flow-through application that minimizes human touch points and operational cost for provisioning. The system also supports multiple vendor technologies and multiple network configurations and provides exception processing capability.    Responsibilities:  • Develop and build applications.  • Build dashboards to monitor various metrics in production.  • Analyze & identify the root cause of production issues, monitor and analyze application behavior/performance, identify improvement opportunities and create functional and non-functional requirements to improve success rates.  • Automate report creation and build issue tracker to monitor and track production issues.  • Write SQL/No SQL queries for data analysis.  • Ensure designs are in compliance with specifications.  • Write automated scripts using python  • Integrate applications by designing and developing applications by gathering requirements.  • Envisioning system features and functionalities, and determining design methodologies and tool sets.  • Build high performing, scalable, enterprise-grade applications from concept to market.  • Troubleshoot problems across multiple environments.  • Automate tasks to reduce manual efforts and enhance productivity.  • Work with the team members to coordinate and manage release planning.  Environment: Python, Django, JavaScript, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Studio 3T, JQuery, Hadoop, Hive, Pentaho, Compass, XML, PL/SQL, OBIEE 11g, Oracle, Unix, Pentaho, PyCharm, HiveQL, Jira, Linux, MS Access VBA, RDBMS, PL/SQL Developer, SQL*Plus, Unix Shell Script, SOAP UI client, Windows. Software Engineer Client - Comcast - Englewood, CO August 2011 to Present Client - Comcast August 2011 to August 2013 The Comcast Advanced Activation Platform (CAAP) represents the combination of several independent software systems that work in unison to complete the delivery of service to new and existing customers (e.g. upgrade or swap). These systems provide automated business behaviors that facilitate shipment of equipment kits for self-installation (aka self-install kit - SIK), authentication of customers seeking to activate Comcast devices and services, discovery of those devices on the network, checking the "health" of each device, activating ordered services through provisioning, and allowing creation of a new customer's Comcast email account.    In addition to the Customer self-installation, the system also provides Comcast field technicians with enhanced device information as well as stream-lined activation flows. The platform supports both the use of hand-held devices and technician PC-based service activation of on-site equipment.    Responsibilities  • Analyze & identify the root cause of production issues, monitor and analyze application behavior/performance, identify improvement opportunities and create functional and non-functional requirements to improve success rates.  • Develop/support web based applications using OBIEE 11g; develop dashboards using OBIEE 11g.  • Performing Root Cause Analysis (RCA) for the production problems in order to proactively reduce the number of incidents.  • Provide development support, perform release management roles.  • Create SLAs, interface agreements, communication-path documents.  • Automate tasks using Python and Unix shell scripting  • Write complex SQL queries to create ad hoc reports and automate repeated reports.  • Analyze, provide development support and perform release management roles.  • On-site/offshore co-ordination, Deployment planning & co-ordinations.  • Administrate OBIEE server, build and maintain repository.  • Coordinate & manage release planning for multiple applications.  Environment: OBIEE 11g, Python, Java, XML, MS Access VBA, Oracle 11g, Linux, JavaScript, Weblogic 11g, IDLE, Apache web server, CVS, Eclipse, PL/SQL Developer, SQL*Plus, RDBMS, Unix Shell Script, SOAP UI client, Twiki, Windows 7, Wily Introscope Upgrade Checker Service Best Buy Mobile June 2010 to August 2011 Best Buy Mobile (BBM) IT has executed the Upgrade Checker Service (UCS) project, enabling multiple channels like store, online, etc., to determine if a Best Buy Mobile customer is eligible for an upgrade with the carrier. The Upgrade Checker Service is a SOAP web service which can be used to check mobile upgrade eligibility for customers and to subscribe/unsubscribe the customer for notification of upgrade eligibility via text or voice. Upgrade Checker Service has been developed using SOA architecture.    Responsibilities  • Involved in the project from the initial transition phase.  • Defined the process model for the project.  • Production deployment planning & co-ordination.  • Evaluating the design and development needs of the client, conducting logical analysis of technical problems and formulating mathematical models for solutions of the problems  • Supporting and maintaining the application in Production  • Ensuring that the applications are running smoothly and attending to any aberrations in these applications immediately.  • Strict adherence to Service Level Agreements and Business Level Agreements with Best Buy.  • Performing Root Cause Analysis (RCA) for the production problems in order to proactively reduce the number of incidents.  • Effort estimate, Project plan, Analyze and High level design  Environment: Java, J2EE, XML, SOAP, Web Service Description Language (WSDL), Agile, Oracle 10g, Windows XP, CVS, Linux, Weblogic 10.3, Bugzilla, Apache Ant, Apache Webserver, PVCS, MS SharePoint, Eclipse, SQL Developer, TDA Best Buy Easy Activation and Sales Tool Best Buy Mobile December 2008 to August 2011 Best Buy Easy Activations and Sales Tool (BEAST) acts as a common platform to activate mobile phones in the Best Buy stores for all carriers. The project involves developing a solution to improve the customer and employee experience when shopping for and selling mobile phones by providing one common platform for activation.  Responsibilities  • Create dashboards using OBIEE to monitor application performance.  • Effort estimation for the new scope items and functionalities.  • Drive automation to reduce manual efforts.  • Involved in the design decisions of the application.  • Provided suggestions and solutions for the best customer experience with BEAST.  • On-site/offshore co-ordination.  • Performed the role of a tester during the Code or product releases at Carrier end.  • Project management and involved in re-defining the support process to suit the expectations of the customers, both US and Canada.  • Production deployment planning & co-ordination.  • Evaluating the design and development needs of the client, conducting logical analysis of technical problems and formulating mathematical models for solutions of the problems  • Debugging the production errors, testing and implementing the fix.  • Strict adherence to Service Level Agreements and Business Level Agreements with Best Buy.  • Performing Root Cause Analysis (RCA) for the production problems in order to proactively reduce the number of incidents.  • Interactions with clients from US/Canada and other stake holders from the support perspective.  • Change and Release Management.  • Status reporting & QUAL Testing.  • Documentation of Support procedures.  • Adherence to Quality procedures. Taking preventive actions to maintain the application available 24/7  • Executive Reporting and weekly meetings with carrier teams.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Web Services Description Language (WSDL), SOAP, Agile, OBIEE 11g, XML, XSL, XSLT, log4J, Unix Shell Scripting, Oracle 10g/9i, SQL, Remedy, RDBMS, Linux, IBM Tivoli Workload Scheduler, Windows XP, Weblogic 9.2 & 10.3, Apache Webserver, CVS, PVCS, Weblogic Webservice, MS SharePoint, Eclipse, SQL Developer, TDA Application Lead Client - Best Buy - Richfield, MN September 2004 to August 2011 Upgrade Checker Best Buy Mobile February 2009 to July 2010 Upgrade Checker aims at simplifying the upgrade checking process for the store associates at Best Buy. Upgrades to mobile plans create a customer connection to Best Buy through mobile contracts which provides a sustainable source of revenue for Best Buy and it helps to create a positive customer experience. Upgrade Checker was also integrated with SMS provider, in-house call center and provided bilingual support in French and English.  This project was executed in two phases/stages  • Upgrade Checker Basic  • Upgrade Checker Service  Upgrade Checker Basic has been developed in 3-tier architecture whereas the Upgrade Checker Service using SOA architecture.    Responsibilities  • Doing code fixes, testing and implementing the change in Production.  • Performing Root Cause Analysis (RCA) for the production problems in order to proactively reduce the number of incidents.  • Effort estimate, Project plan, Analyze and High level design  • Analyzed user interface design, user experience, usability and social trends related to mobile devices and the compatibility between different mobile devices.  Environment: VB.Net, HTML, XML, SOAP, Web Service Description Language (WSDL), Oracle 10g, Sql Server 2005, Windows XP, Windows 2003 Server, Visual Studio, IIS, CVS, Tortoise, SQL*Plus, Oracle Data Provider(ODP).Net Best Buy Mobile February 2009 to January 2010 BestBuy needed a tactical unified solution for prepaid carriers to enable in store activation and integration. This application was developed as a web based application to perform prepaid mobile activation for virgin mobile's phones. This system would provide seamless interaction with Virgin Mobile's activation system directly and perform various operations such as coverage check, performing top-up, activating phones, etc.  This application was developed using 3-tier architecture and consumed the carriers API to perform the activation. This application was also responsible to send the activation data to one of the financial systems for reconciliation. Multiple back end Jobs were also scheduled to sync up the Plan, Message and other Meta data from the carriers. This application used many ASP.Net Ajax controls to enable rich customer experience.    Responsibilities  • Weekly meetings with Business and Stake holders to present the status report.  • Was driving the technical discussions between the carrier and Best Buy.  • Involved in PCI Security standards review and made the application PCI compliant.  • On-site/offshore co-ordination, Deployment planning & co-ordination, L3 Support.  • Scheduling jobs in Tivoli and testing  • Supporting and maintaining the application in Production  Environment: ASP.Net, Visual Studio.NET, AJAX, SOAP, XML, IIS, SQL Server 2005, Incremental Methodology, Windows XP, CVS, Tortoise, Tivoli CF Admin tool Project - Customer Fulfillment February 2008 to February 2009 Project Duration - Feb 2008 - Feb 2009  The Customer Fulfillment system (CF) project is designed to fulfill out of stocks at stores and to reduce excess store inventory. The system is also intended as an alternative for Raincheck option.  CF has Open System and Mainframe components. The system mainly consists of the below sets of applications.  • Kiosk application  • CF Setup application  • CF Admin tool    Responsibilities  • Driving fixes from offshore, coordinating and implementing the change.  • Client interactions for issues, clarifications and status updates.  • Automation tools for proactive monitoring and reporting.  • Ensuring that the applications are running smoothly and attending to any aberrations in these applications immediately.  • Strict adherence to Service Level Agreements and Business Level Agreements with Best Buy Technology Group (BBTG).  • Regular meetings with Business to meet the expectations from the Business perspective.  Environment: Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server 2000, ODBC, HTML, ASP, ASP.Net, VB.NET, Visual Basic 6.0, IIS, PL/SQL, Knowledge Management, SQL Server, SQL and Stored Procedures, Incremental Methodology, Windows XP, Visual SourceSafe, QTODBC, PVCS, IBM Tivoli, VSS, MS Visual Source Safe, Tortoise CVS, Retail Project - Subscription Services July 2007 to November 2008 This project is a support and maintenance project for Best Buy and involves supporting a portfolio of applications critical to sales of subscriptions services, accounting and reconciliation of commission involved with the sales of subscription services. The applications needs to be supported 24x7 and involves communicating with other vendors of Best Buy to provide support.    Responsibilities  • Supporting and maintaining the integration systems in Production  • Ensuring that the applications are running smoothly and attending to any aberrations in these applications immediately.  • Strict adherence to Service Level Agreements and Business Level Agreements with BBTG.  • Interactions with client as well as vendors of the client from the support perspective.  • Status reporting & QUAL Testing.  • Documentation of Support procedures.  • Adherence to Quality procedures. Taking preventive actions to maintain the application available 24/7  • Escalating issues to Business and other groups  • Impact analysis for issues raised and simulates the same for more clear understanding of the nature of the issue.  • Documenting the issues in Twiki and regularly informed my team members to avoid single point of failure.  • Preparing daily and weekly ASM activities status to be reported to the Client  • Analyzing and resolving Business Request  • Developing Automated tool to make ASM process simple  Environment: Visual Studio.NET, ASP, ASP.NET, IIS, JUnit, Adobe Acrobat, Oracle 8i, SQL Server 2000, ODBC, PL/SQL, Windows 98/NT/XP, Visual Basic 6.0, HTML, Process Automation, MS Visual SourceSafe. SME and technical consultant Project - APPTALK - The Middleware System September 2004 to November 2008 Project Duration - Sep 2004 - Nov 2008  The Middleware Support Group is associated with the data transferred across various Best Buy applications and to its third party vendors. This is achieved via an Application-to-Application communicator called AppTalk which is known for its middleware support.  AppTalk approach is to create a common "language" by which the applications can exchange information to drive down integration costs, time, and risk. AppTalk is the Application-to-Application (A2A) communication and data exchange layer integrating multiple internal and external systems to Best Buy.    Responsibilities  • SME and technical consultant for the AppTalk adapters.  • Onsite/Offshore coordination.  • Involved in the Maestro job set up.  • New AppTalk adapters transition to the team.  • Automation tools for proactive monitoring and reporting.  • Ensuring that the applications are running smoothly and attending to any aberrations in these applications immediately.  • Strict adherence to Service Level Agreements and Business Level Agreements with Best Buy Technology Group (BBTG).  • Interactions with client as well as vendors of the client from the support perspective.  • Change Management.  • Documentation of Support procedures.  • Adherence to Quality procedures. Taking preventive actions to maintain the application available 24/7.  • Escalating issues to Business and other groups.  • Monitoring daily batch jobs and reporting the status to business on daily basis.  • Impact analysis for issues raised and simulates the same for more clear understanding of the nature of the issue.  • Cross-trained the team members with supported applications.  • Documenting the issues in Twiki, the knowledge repository tool.  • Preparing daily and weekly ASM activities status to be reported to the Client  • Analyzing and resolving Business Requests.  Environment: MySQL, Oracle, Java, RDBMS Concepts, EJB, WinCVS, MS Office, SQLPlus, MS Access, SQL Developer, Eclipse, HTML, XML, XSL, JDBC, XSLT, Java EE, JUnit, Unix, Linux, Windows 98/NT/XP, IBM MQ, WebMethods, Shell Script, Technical Documentation, Knowledge Management, Mercury IT Governance, Data and Channel encryption, SQL Server, SQL query analyzer, SQL and Stored Procedures, Process Automation, MS SharePoint, IBM Tivoli, ANT, CVS, QTODBC, PVCS, MS VSS, Retail Education Masters in Software Engineering in Software Engineering BIRLA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AND SCIENCE (BITS) - Pilani, Rajasthan Skills Linux (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Unix (10+ years), XML (10+ years)