Security Analyst / Python Developer Security Analyst / <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Security Analyst / Python Developer Normal, IL • GMON - GIAC Certified Monitoring Certification  • GCIH - GIAC Certified Incident Handler  • AS - Associates of Science in Data Assurance and IT Security  • 20+ years working with Linux and Windows, 8+ years working with Mac  • Advanced coder in Python, BASH, Powershell, PHP, TSQL, and HTML  • 3+ years working with Arcsight SIEM, Connectors, and Loggers  • Strong leader  • Competed in several infosec challenges including WRCCDC, MITRE, and National Cyber  League  • Vice Team captain for Linux/ Python skillset on WRCCDC National University Nuclear team. Work Experience Security Analyst / Python Developer TekSystems/Caterpillar 2015 to 2018 Duties include: Member of the Arcsight Team. Monitoring Arcsight health, log sources, and continuing to bring in new sources as they become available. Set up and deployed several new Arcsight Loggers,  ArcMC Appiances, and ESM servers. Key role in workflow automation projects using Python, Powershell, and Bash. Managed Perl scrips on multiple Linux platforms as well as dozens of Python, and BASH scripts  I wrote. Researched and coded the ability for the Caterpillar CSIRT team to enrich log data with LDAP  queries. Wrote custom log parsers and log line reformatting programs to adhere to the HP Arcsight CEF  standards. Wrote a custom log source DNS server search utility to update Arcsight connectors with new  sources programmatically. Designed and deployed PHP based use case system, LDAP lookup source, and inventory control system for CSIRT assets. Network Administrator Ball Chatham Schools 2013 to 2014 Duties include: Responsible for entire district network infrastructure including Enterasys, HP, Cisco, and other switches, routers, hubs, and other networking hardware. Managed point to point wireless systems over long distances. Set up and managed Aruba Wireless infrastructure. Set up back up servers, created a helpdesk system, created an inventory system, and implemented a disk imaging system. Re-cabled  several schools and brought them from 10 megabits half duplex to gigabit full duplex speeds. Managed  firewall rules, active directory servers and active directory, as well as Citrix, Exchange servers, and other  servers on the LAN. Systems Analyst Saint Johns Hospital 2010 to 2012 Duties include: Help Desk Operations, Documentation, Printer and PC support, pager support,  telephone support and replacements, Active Directory, troubleshooting and basic repair. Primarily work  night shift and participated in large projects such as replacing over 1500 computers, keyboards,  monitors, and mice throughout the organization. Federal Technician Production Control 2008 to 2010 National Guard Bureau  Primary duties are to evaluate and repair wheeled vehicle equipment, perform pneumatic, hydraulic, and electrical troubleshooting and diagnostics, and operate the SAMS-E computer database and  maintenance system. Help Desk Technician / Network, PC, Server Support Pacific Bearing Co 2006 to 2008 Primary duty is to offer support for Windows 2000, XP, and Servers 2000 and 2003 as well as HP printer  support. W hile assigned to Pacific Bearing I have stood up a remote monitor server that logs all  actions on the network to a MSSQL database. I managed all trouble tickets that came in.  Additional duties included are working with the PBX phone system and voicemail, hardware  troubleshooting, repair, and replacement for precision workstations, low end computers, and servers. I  redesigned and managed the network, installed security appliances, and strengthened network and data assurance practices and policies within the organization and I was a key part of the Active  Directory cleanup and migration from Windows Server 2000 to Windows Server 2003. PC Technician Project Manager Natural Data / Hewlett Packard 2005 to 2006 Duties included: User data backups, Lotus Notes setup, Novell user setup, computer replacement,  computers / printers / servers and monitors testing, troubleshooting and repair, test station and work flow  planning. Personnel management for teams of 4 to 15 people. Education BS National University Present security operations SANS Institute March 2018 AAS in Data Assurance and IT Security Rock Valley College March 2008 Skills Javascript, Flask, Python