Staff Data Scientist Staff Data Scientist Data / Software Engineer: 15+ Yrs of Experience Developing Software and Working with Data San Francisco, CA Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Staff Data Scientist APP ANNIE LTD - San Francisco, CA 2015 to Present Transitioned to individual contributor in order to improve and maintain our flagship product: investigate and fix inaccuracies of the underlying modeling framework, make sure the product stays healthy both from the statistical and the operational point of view. Collaborate with Product, Customer Success and Engineering.  * Major responsibility for model quality of product that represents 70% of all company revenues ($30-$100M range). Instituted processes, repeatable analyses and quality control to mitigate unforeseen changes from external data sources.  * Mentored and coached 2 new team members to scale our operations and maintain distribution of shared knowledge. Senior Manager / Senior Staff Engineer APP ANNIE LTD - Beijing 2013 to 2015 Tasked with building and leading team around our flagship product. Held Director-level responsibilities that included developing and maintaining the technical architecture, coaching and directing team members, collaborating with directors and tech leads, and overseeing project management. Reported to EVP of Engineering.  * Delivered new, game-changing paid products for the company. Built and led team signified as the development team solely responsible for all revenue-generating products at App Annie.  * Created initial set of development processes and best practices that paved the way for scaling of development efforts (including introduction of new QA team, integration of PM tools, proposals for internal guidelines).  * Recruited and hired over 25 individuals, maintaining an above-average retention rate. Mentored 3 team members who subsequently became successful tech leaders.  * Took on responsibility of managing Data Science team for 1 year. Software Engineer APP ANNIE LTD - Beijing 2011 to 2012 Contributed to a wide range of activities within a fast-paced, challenging start-up period. Worked closely with other team  members in developing our core platform, implementing our first set of integrations, managing our production environment and hiring our initial set of developers.  * Laid the groundwork for the operations in a joint effort with 2 other founding engineers, our CEO and a half-time PM as the company grew from 5 to 100 team members.  * Implemented two proof-of-concepts that became their own product. One an extension of our data collector that  rolled into our free product suite and the other an add-on component to our paid offering.  * Took over server maintenance. Extended our automation and monitoring capabilities to support our growth.  * Managed and mentored new hires with an emphasis on making them productive as soon as possible. Software Engineer EXOWEB LTD - Beijing 2010 to 2011 Served as a individual contributor for the project of a large customer that brought in 95% of the company's total revenues.  * Backend development for high-traffic website with an 8 years old legacy codebase. System Architect / Researcher / Java .NET Python Developer HUNGARIAN ACADEMY OF SCIENCES - Budapest 2006 to 2010 Participated in 3 long-term projects at the Data Mining and Web Search Group, Institute For Computer Science & Automation  * Developed multi-platform, customizable, web-based search application. Proposed and implemented integration ar- chitecture, designed pluggable web framework, consolidated previously separate applications, and transformed past results into a marketable product targeting enterprise customers.  * Designed and developed front-end of client-server data mining application for one of the largest insurance companies in Hungary. Designed interoperability API and Java Swing GUI with strong emphasis on usability.  * Participated in research projects on Data Mining including but not limited to high-dimensional modeling, web search, SVM, MCMC  * Onboarded and mentored a new team member. Consultant VARIOUS CLIENTS - Budapest 1998 to 2010 Completed multiple projects for client companies over a 12-year period, including:  * Case Management system for an independent court bailiff's office (led the entire project using Agile methods)  * Inventory application for a costume wholesaler  * Small CRM application for a PR company (created a lean collaboration system)  * BPM system for a longevity insurance company  * Inventory Manager for a restaurant client Desktop Support Engineer PANNON GSM, EST MEDIA - Budapest 2002 to 2006 Worked on 2 separate projects for the 2nd largest mobile provider in Hungary (Pannon GSM) and a smaller media company with 200 employees (Est Media), respectively. Education INCOMPLETE (PhD) in Implementing Data Mining Algorithms on Modern GPUs PhD School of Computer Science, Eo?tvo?s Lo?ra?nd University - Budapest, Hungary 2008 to 2010 MSc in Software Engineering with Specialization in Systems Development Budapest University of Technology and Economics - Budapest, HU 2000 to 2007 Skills B2B SOFTWARE (7 years), Software Development (10+ years), PYTHON (8 years), Data Analysis (6 years), Data Mining (6 years), Manager (3 years) Publications KDD Cup 2009 @ Budapest: Feature Partitioning and Boosting http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3000364.3000370 2009-07 Multiple authors:  We describe the method used in our final submission to KDD Cup 2009 as well as a selection of promising directions that are generally believed to work well but did not justify our expectations. Our final method consists of a combination of a LogitBoost and an ADTree classifier with a feature selection method that, as shaped by the experiments we have conducted, have turned out to be very different from those described in some well-cited surveys. Some methods that failed include distance, information and dependence measures for feature selection as well as combination of classifiers over a partitioned feature set. As another main lesson learned, alternating decision trees and LogitBoost outperformed most classifiers for most feature subsets of the KDD Cup 2009 data. Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages: Python, Shell, R, Emacs Lisp, Java  Paradigms: Functional, Declarative, Object-Oriented  Software Engineering: Large Scale Scrum, CI, RAD  Stats: EDA, DataViz, ML, DoE, Quality Control  Databases: PostgreSQL, Physical Database Design  Architecture: Distributed Systems, Protocol Design