Python Fullstack Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Fullstack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Fullstack Developer - Humana • Having 3 years of experience in Designing, Development, Deployment and maintenance of web apps based on Python platforms.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, React JS, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Node JS.  • Experienced with web based MVC Python frameworks like Django and Flask.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using various design patterns.  • Involved in Design, Development, Testing, Automation, Enhancement and Maintenance of Applications and Tools.  • Experience of Programming using Object Oriented Programming (OOPs concept) and software development life cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, and object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, SQL, REST API  • Experienced in developing in web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO. Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Experience in Python OpenStack API'S. Scaling up projects using pyth on tools like multithreading, celery.  • Experienced with server-side technologies including relational databases, RESTful services and MVC design patterns.  • Strong experience with Python and Django.  • Web Apps development experience using Django and Flask inclusive of experience in UI using Javascript, AngularJS.  • Good experience in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR, S3 and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  • Familiarity with implementing Model view control architecture using Django for web based applications.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  • Experience in using frameworks and tools like Django, Flask, Django REST.  • Experience in writing the python scripts and tracking customer development.  • Worked with varieties of Relational Databases (RDBMS) like SQLite, MySQL and MongoDB.  • Hands on experience in SQL Server and Linux.  • Experience of creating RESTFUL API using Python/Django and WSGI based Falcon APIs  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings. Work Experience Python Fullstack Developer Humana - Jersey City, NJ January 2018 to Present Description: Humana's diverse lines of business work to serve all types of consumers. From families to seniors to military members to self-employed individuals, there is a plan to meet many unique needs. Find out how Humana's associates and corporate leaders are committed to customer service.    • Involved in understanding and analyzing the client's business, requirements for the system.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used SAX for XML parsing, JSON and AJAX to send request to secured web service.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and J Query.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django frameworks and Used Django APIs for database access.  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery and worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Created RESTful http services to interact with UI.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Using Chef and AWS allowed me to reduce costs for the department and eliminate unwarranted resources. Automated provisioning of cloud infrastructure with Chef.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Designed DynamoDB pipeline for routing/storing of email bounce handling records.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  • Conduct blogging related to machine learning/deep learning.  • Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using amazon elastic bean stalk  • Worked on Amazon Web Services(AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as Chef and Puppet.    Environment: Python, Django, AWS, MySQL, RESTful, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular Js, JSON, Git. Python Engineer Strategic Investment Group - Arlington, VA June 2016 to October 2017 * Implemented web user interface for managed publisher to monetize their website content.  * Coordinated with cross functional engineering team to onboard publisher successfully.  * Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface and maintained data with JSON data standards for quick response and Restful, CRUD operation.  * Implemented new features both on demand side and supply side.  * Comparison of the data present in database with the data provided in excels.    Environment learnt: RHEL, Python, Django Framework, MySQL, HTML, and CSS Software Engineer Wintech Services India - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed single page application using Angular JS along with JQuery.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Developed entire frontend modules on Web Framework.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Involved in views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface. Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Used D3.js library for visualizations like transitions, line charts and bar graphs.  • Involved Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database using CRUD Operations.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end and handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Use Git for version control.  • Performed Automated Unit and system integration testing.  • Trained users and did production support.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Education Masters in Information Systems Stratford University - Falls Church, VA Bachelors in Information Technology Vignan University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh Skills CSS (2 years), DATABASE (2 years), DJANGO (2 years), HTML (2 years), MYSQL (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    • Programming Languages: Python, JavaScript, C++, SQL, HTML  • Front-end/Web: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Meteor, jQuery, React Js Angular JS.  • MVC related Frameworks: Django and any Python related MVC framework  • Frameworks: Flask, Node.js, Angular.js, JQuery  • Database: MySQL, MongoDB, SQL Server, MS Excel    • Software Tools: Pycharm, Eclipse, WebStorm, Net Beans IDE,  • Testing/VCS: Unit test, doctest, Nose, Mock, Coverage / GIT, Stash, SVN.  • Web Services/API/Messaging: RESTful APIs, JSON, XML, LDAP, AMQP, Celery, RabbitMQ,  • Cloud Services: Amazon Web Services (AWS ) (Various Services)  • Operating System: Windows (XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10), Linux, Ubuntu.