Principal Consultant & Owner Principal Consultant &amp; Owner Experienced Data Professional Star Valley Ranch, WY Management/Leadership Skills: Data Systems Group Manager, Project Manager, Technical Team Leader, Lead Design Engineer    Life Cycle Expertise: Requirements Analysis; Data Modeling (ERWIN), Logical Database Design, Physical Database Design, Application Development and Testing, Data Conversion, Transition Planning and Execution, Application and Database Performance Tuning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Principal Consultant & Owner JCV Solutions LLC November 2014 to Present Alfresco Developer JCV Solutions LLC November 2014 to August 2015 Alfresco Document Management  Redesigned and customized Alfresco document management system for the CD-Adapco legal department. This included a service oriented architecture for transferring legal documents from an online service into the Alfresco respostory. This also included a custom document model with the necessary customizations to the repository and the Share application. Most of the work was done using Java and Web Script (Java Script) development. Application/Systems Analyst/ Developer Yates Petroleum January 2006 to September 2012 Designed and implemented a custom data model in Alfresco to publish open positions on the web, and to receive applications over the web. The custom document model was implemented in alfresco, and the web interface was implemented using bottle, a light web framework in python. The communication from the web application to the Alfresco repository was implemented in CMIS using the python CMISLIB library.  • Project Lead Alfresco Implementation  Project lead for prototyping, testing and deploying of Alfresco as a document management platform for Yates Petroleum.  • Project Lead Plant Accounting & HR Time Tracking:  Project Lead for software acquisition and deployment of mid stream gathering and plant accounting and allocation. Over saw RFI/RFP process. Still in process of roll out and testing of system. Project Lead for acquisition of software to track employee time off. Evaluated software products from vendors. Handled all data migration tasks for setting up new system.  • Landmark migration from Solaris to Linux: Built and configured Geophysical workstations based on Red Hat Linux. Migrated Landmark Oracle data base to new Linux geophysics server. Moved all Seismic projects to central server. Moved all user configurations and home directories to central server locations.  • Linux System Admin: Provide LINUX sys admin support, including upgrades troubleshooting and backup and recovery of all database and file system recovery. AMANDA open source backup software used for backup and recovery.  • Landmark and Geophysical Application Support: Provide support for Landmark OpenWorks applications GeoProbe , SmartSection and GeoGraphix Products also provide support for Seismic Micro Technologies Kingdom Suite.  • Quorum Suite: Maintained and supported the Quorum Suite of applications including PGAS, QCM, QGM, TIPS, ESUITE. Did all upgrading patching and database administration for these applications. Setup and programmed TIPS allocations.  • ASP.NET Developer: Developed a web based application to maintain the approved vendors list and to distribute this information over the web.  • GRASS6.x & ArcGIS: Used Grass6.2 and ArcGIS to clean up shape files produced by Geographix to create and produce shape files that were topologically clean for use by the Wyoming DEQ analysis programs. Built and compiled Grass64 from scratch. Researched the use of GRASS, POSTGIS, and Quantum GIS as tools for meeting company GIS needs.  • MS SQL/TSQL: Various MS SQL support. Moved and backed up databases, and wrote TSQL procedures and functions and did database designs for various applications and modifications.  • Microsoft Reporting Services: Setup Reporting Services development environment, and wrote reports in support of Quorum database systems. Converted all marketing department reports from Business Objects to reporting services.  • Python Program Asset Keeper Update: Wrote Python program to automate search and download of updates for Asset Keeper Software web page. The program uses python packages to access web sites search and find the download link and to download the update file and then send and email message informing that a new update was available.  • Python Program PGAS Directory Maintenance: Wrote Python programs to automate the loading, moving , and archiving of the original data files that are loaded into the PGAS system. The scripts scan directories and move or delete files as necessary on a nightly basis. Oracle DBA & Database Development Support Union Telephone January 2005 to September 2005 Installed and setup Oracle on Solaris servers for handling the switch data for the new billing and customer care software.  • Python/ Unix /SQL Programmer: Wrote a set of Python, UNIX shell script and TSQL routines to automate the process of extracting billing data from the new Microsoft SQL Server database based service application.  • Software Design Architect: Did the initial design for a software system for tracking the telephone/cellular phone network. The purpose of this application was to provide an online source of all the current equipment installed in the various networks. It also grew to include the possibility of real-time monitoring of the devices using SNMP to monitor and display real-time status of SNMP complaint equipment. C, C++ Programmer Union Telephone 2004 to January 2004 Used Powerbuilder and a combination of C/C++ to maintain the client's current billing and customer service application. The application used Powerbuilder for the front end, and a number of C/C++ routines for handling the socket communication with the telecom switches and other telecommunications devices. Platform was Windows 2000. Apache/ Python Developer BenChoice & Opticare of Utah October 2002 to February 2003 Apache/ Python Middleware: Engineered and built a web based middleware prototype application to allow clients to communicate with Utah Health Information Network (UHIN). UHIN has setup a protocol using SSL over the web to facilitate communication from health care providers to insurers. This application was built to allow the clients to pass and receive information using the UHIN network. Python/Zope Developer Web Catalog for Custom Classics Archery July 2002 to September 2002 Zope/ Python Web App: Designed and built web based catalog system and web site for Custom Classics Archery. This web site provided the means for client to do most if not all of the maintenance of their catalog without having to do any html programming. They could add, delete, or edit their catalog including pictures, prices, descriptions etc. Programmer/Analyst SAUDI ARAMCO December 2000 to July 2002 • Application Support: Provide programming and technical support to the exploration department.  • Microsoft Access: Created Access application for drilling geologists to record lithology. Application would then format data and loaded the data to GeoLog program for creation of well log. Saved geologists hand drawing of well logs.  • Zope/ Python Web Application: Prototyped application to automate loading of users Excel Spreadsheets into central databases. The system used ZOPE and PYTHON's XML_RPC functionality to open the spreadsheet in EXCEL on an Windows machine and then save it as delimited file. The system would then load the delimited file into and Oracle database using SQL*Loader. Contract Trainer ODK Inc June 2000 to December 2000 Technical Trainer: Taught classes in Relational Modeling. Oracle DBA , Oracle Forms, and Oracle Reports. Unix and Oracle Admin Marathon Oil January 2000 to June 2000 • Unix System Admin (IRIX): Provided system administration for the Geophysical applications including Landmark, Petrosys, VoxelGeo, and Eclipse.  • Oracle Support: Provided Oracle support for the Currently Daily Production System, the Maintenance and Morning Report Systems. Principal Consultant DIA/Concade August 1999 to October 1999 • Initial Needs Assessment & Requirements: Gathered and cataloged all of the various needs and requirements from the various Bolivian government departments and entities. Developed initial requirements for system.  • GIS Requirements: Added GIS component to allow managers to track information and query information geographically.  • Initial System Design: Did initial system design including mapping all data flows from the different departments, and project map for developers who would eventually build the system. Oracle DBA, Data Modele,r Data Migration Consultant Harris IAS May 1998 to August 1999 • Migration Modeling (ERWIN): Created new relational data model from legacy (M204) data.  • Capacity Planning: Created physical model including capacity and hardware planning for new system.  • Load Scripting: Wrote data loading scripts using unix shell and Oracle SQL * Loader. Wrote a C/C++ package to do a file comparison to check the validity of the data migration software. It basically added the needed functionality to the standard unix diff utility.  • PL/SQL, Oracle Forms, Oracle Reports: Provided PL/SQL, Forms, and Reports programming where needed. Oracle Developer ORACLE CONSULTING January 1998 to May 1998 2000 & PL/SQL: Implemented Functionality of Air Force Global Combat Support System Requirements Computation Model. Solved models differential equations using PL/SQL to calculate model's optimum reorder point. All database structures and functions were modeled using Designer 2000.    • Have been working on building the Requirements Computation Model for the Air Force Global Combat Support System. This has required a review of all the statistical formulations used in the Economic Order Quantity Model used by the Air Force to predict and calculate demands for a product, and writing PL/SQL functions and procedures to implement these statistical processes. It has also required the modeling of the database tables to support this function. All of the modeling both process and table design and coding has been done using Designer 2000. Oracle Spatial Consultant NIMA/DAGS November 1997 to February 1998 Oracle SDO Add On: Add On allowed SDO to spatially index geometries that crossed the international data line. Initial releases would not do this correctly. Consisted of an external C++ listener and procedures that were accessed from the database via database pipes. All of this was encapsulated into the database by a PL/SQL package that was automatically used by database triggers that called the C++ programs to correctly index these geometries. The process was transparent to the database users. Oracle Spatial Consultant ORACLE CONSULTING January 1997 to December 1997 Oracle SDO, C, PL/SQL: The prototype processed 20 million satellite phone records. It created a spatial SDO layer of 50 km circles about the latitude and longitude points that the calls originated from. It then determined the country or countries that the call could have originated from and applied the appropriate tariffs. Oracle Spatial Consultant Blockbuster Video July 1997 to November 1997 • Needs Assessment & Requirements: Performed needs assessment and established requirements for the front end GIS tools for the application.  • Data Port MapInfo to Oracle SDO: Setup up and configured the Oracle Spatial Data Option and ported data from MapInfo into Oracle SDO layers.  • Prototyping and Proof of Concept: Compiled and contacted a list of vendors of GIS tools to do prototypes and proof of concepts. Oracle Spatial Consultant Consolidated Edison June 1997 to June 1997 Oracle SDO(Spatial Data Option): Designed spatial layers. Loaded spatial data and tuned spatial indexes to provide excellent response time to spatial queries of Consolidated Edison network. PL/SQL Developer Oracle Energy January 1997 to June 1997 • Oracle PL/SQL API Design & Development: Encapsulated all application logic for Oracle Oil & Gas Accounting application inside of PL/SQL packages (API). Provided standard interface for interacting with the data providing all data integrity checks of the application.  • Oracle Forms & Reports Debugging: Oracle Reports 2.0, and some Oracle Forms 4.5. Oracle DBA Solaris/HP-UX ORACLE CONSULTING October 1996 to January 1997 DBA for both test and production systems. 3rd Party package implementation: Installed and configured 3rd party software to run against Oracle database.  • DB Sizing, DB Backup & Recovery: Worked on the implementation of both test and production systems including the final database sizing and backup and recovery strategy. The backup was implemented using Legato and SQL Backtrack. Programming & Technical Team Lead/ Oracle DBA Programmer Fitch Information Service Inc February 1994 to September 1996 • Data Systems and Technical Group Manager: Functioned as the manager of the data systems and network systems group. Managed a group of 5 people. Was the hiring manager for the group and also had to do all the performance reviews etc.  • Project and Technical Team Manager: Managed team of 5 persons doing database and application migration of legacy application on VAX to client server using Oracle and Powerbuilder.  • Project Manager: Created project plan including milestones and critical path. Over saw and managed all design, development, testing and implementation phases of the project.  • Data Modeler: Did all data modeling and capacity planning for conversion including logical and physical design of new system and data mappings for conversion of old system to new.  • Oracle DBA: Provided all backup and recovery planning, application tuning and software and system upgrades. Designed distributed database system using Oracle snapshots.  • PL/SQL, C++, Oracle OCI Programmer: Wrote numerous PL/SQL triggers and packages. Programmed C++ class library encapsulating the Oracle OCI for high performance manipulation of data and delivery of data to clients.  • GUI Designer/Programmer. Powerbuilder to design and program client server applications to fulfill new and existing data systems and users needs.  • Technical and Design Team Manager: Managed all new database and application development efforts. Optical Engineer/Programmer In-Situ Inc - Laramie, WY August 1992 to November 1993 • Engineered and programmed a manufacturing inventory tracking system on Oracle using Oracle Forms.  • Performed all of the requirements analysis and architecture designs for both database and application.  • Installed and configured Novell Servers and ported all data from VAX system into the Oracle database.  • Used ultra-violet spectroscopy techniques to design, prototype and build an instrument for detecting hydrocarbons in soil samples. Teaching Assistant University of Wyoming Physics Department - Laramie, WY August 1988 to May 1991 Taught undergraduate physics labs, and lectures when needed.     Completed a Masters degree with an instrumentation project for the Wyoming Infrared Observatory. Did the control programming and calibration for a pressure tuned Fabry-Perot Interferometer. Actuarial Benefits Consultant Howard Johnson & Company - Spokane, WA November 1987 to August 1988 Worked as an entry level actuarial benefits consultant. Worked with different retirement programs for various employers. This entailed reviewing and auditing all of the finances for the program, applying all applicable laws and changes in laws and making sure that the retirement plan was funded and being administered according to all applicable laws and practices. Education Master of Science in Physics University of Wyoming August 1991 Bachelor of Arts in Physics Brigham Young University April 1987 Additional Information Specialty Skills: Alfresco Enterprise Document Management , Data System Design, Database Administrator, System Architecture, Database Migrations/Upgrades, Graphical User Interfaces/GUI Tools, Object Oriented Design and Programming, Oracle Spatial , PostGIS, Unix Shell Scripting, Unix System Administration    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming  Tools    C/C++, Java,Fortran, Pascal, Basic, Unix Shell Scripting, Tcl/Tk, Python, Perl , Microsoft Visual Studio/Reporting, PowerBuilder 4.x    Database  Oracle 6/7/8/9i Personal Oracle, WATCOM SQL, Microsoft SQLServer 2000 2005 Access, Postgresql, MySQL, Microsoft Reporting Services, SQL, TSQL, PL/SQL    Operating  Systems:    HP/UX 9.x 10.x, SUN Solaris 2.6, 2.5, IRIX 6.5.5, Linux Redhat/CentOS/Ubuntu/Slackware, Novell 3.xx, OS/2, Microsoft Windows 3.1/95/NT/2000/XP    Web Technologies Apache, Mod-SSL, ZOPE, Quioxote ,Microsoft IIS, ASP.NET 2.0, HTML, XML ,DHTML, Javascript, Mod-SCGI, Mod- Python, Mod-Perl, bottle py  Oracle Tools Oracle Forms 4.5 and 3.0, OracleMenu, PL/SQL, Pro C, Oracle OCI, Reports 2.0 and 2.5, Developer 2000, Designer 2000, Oracle Spatial Cartridge, Enterprise Manager    Open Source Alfresco Document Management, SAGE, SCIPY, NUMPY, GRASS62     GIS system, wx_windows, Boa Constructor Python IDE    GIS Tools: ArcGIS, GRASS-6.x, GDAL, OGR, PROJ4, POSTGIS