Senior Staff Software Engineer and Team Lead Senior Staff Software Engineer and Team Lead Senior Staff Software Engineer and Team Lead - GE Digital Palo Alto, CA Work Experience Senior Staff Software Engineer and Team Lead GE Digital August 2017 to Present Digital Twin Workbench software enables users to train models using available model building techniques. Lead a team and implemented various interactive plots like trends, scatter, correlation charts to better understand and visualize the data. Worked on major performance improvements for uploading and visualizing large datasets which included compressing large files, redesigning the APIs to reduce multiple network calls, implemented progress bar and pagination for viewing column data. As a team lead, was responsible for overall project deliverables of both visualization Techniques and performance improvements and delivering it before schedule.  Tools used: Java, Limited knowledge in JavaScript, Angular JS and Node js. Team Lead and Software Engineer R&D IBM June 2015 to July 2017 Designed and wrote software to create Hadoop clusters on IBM's private and public cloud (SoftLayer acquisition). Contributed the below features to the platform:  • Developed a module in Java with independent REST APIs, to procure and prepare VMs and Bare Metal Machines from IBM SoftLayer cloud to deploy Ambari, Hbase, Spark, and other Hadoop ecosystem services.  • Programmatically added new nodes to an existing cluster - Tasks included fetching the node from SoftLayer, installing keys, installing Ambari client along with required Hadoop components and registering the new node with the Ambari server for the Hadoop ecosystem to recognize this new data node.  • Implemented ELK stack on Hadoop cluster. Generated audit logs for Hbase, HDFS, Knox, Ambari, and other Hadoop components. Used Logstash to forward logs to different servers.  • Log Analyzer functionality. Implemented Rete algorithm to classify event types within logs.  Tools used: Java, Softlayer APIs, RestEasy, Derby, Agile/Scrum, Linux, Apache/Tomcat. Conceptual knowledge of Apache Hadoop, Spark, Lambda.  Core Java experience (13 years) Team lead and Android Developer March 2015 to May 2015 Developed new features for WebEx app in Android, JNI, and C. Senior Software Engineer and Team Lead January 2014 to January 2015 Architected and developed API's for iOS and MAC, that lets third party developers write applications for Drobo's home storage devices. Ported the application to MAC OS Yosemite. Senior Software Engineer Avaya July 2012 to December 2013 Designed and developed reporting infrastructure for Avaya's Interactive Voice Response (IVR) software that included reports for alarms, audit, trace logs, various system wide status, and configuration information.  The Lean Startup company (called 'Little Bets Labs')  • Wrote an Android application from a scratch that integrated with Dropbox. The application lets a group of enthusiasts share new ideas and collaborate amongst themselves to take the idea to prototype stage Python Developer May 2012 to July 2012 Implemented strong authentication of softtokens to allow only authorized users to run secure commands on Cisco's proprietary chips. Included establishing a TLS session with the portal, tx & rx of cryptographic formatted message, verifying integrity of the returned message, and installing the valid certificate on token. Senior Software Engineer Voltage Security April 2011 to April 2012 Part of a team responsible for developing a secure email client for various mobile platforms. Senior Software Engineer Interactive TV, Blu-Ray January 2009 to March 2011 I worked as a MTS at SeaChange (Jan 2009-Mar 2011), Pioneer Electronics (Apr 2004-Jan 2009), Prediwave (Jan 2003-Jan 2004), Arula Systems (Feb 2001-Dec 2001), MCI-WorldCom (Feb 2000- Feb 2001) (PTC) (Software Engineer) Parametric Technology Corporation February 1997 to February 2000 Tools used: Java on J2ME Personal Basis Profile, Java Security, C++, JNI programming Education MS in Reliability Engineering Indian Institute of Technology - Mumbai, Maharashtra 2010 Skills JAVA (8 years), SECURITY (3 years), AMBARI (2 years), APACHE HADOOP AMBARI (2 years), Hadoop (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nagini-chilukuri-0145143 Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Languages: JAVA, Java Security, JSP, XML, Objective-C, Android Framework, JSSE.  • Databases: JDBC programming, MySQL    • Operating Systems: Linux, Windows, MacOS.    • Big Data: Ambari and Hadoop  • Other Tools: IDEs like Eclipse, SVN, GIT, Perforce, Tomcat, XCode, Agile software development