Consultant/Lead Software Developer Consultant/Lead Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Project Lead Python/Data Engineer - Centene Corporation St. Louis, MO Work Experience Consultant/Lead Software Developer SEIU November 2018 to Present Project Lead Python/Data Engineer Centene Corporation May 2015 to November 2018 IT Call Center Support    ? Lead a team of up to 3 other developers and analysts supporting Business  Intelligence, Data Analysis and Data Warehousing tasks in support of Centene's  Call Centers.    ? Architected and built Built Call Center ETL, Reporting and Analytic tools with a combination of Anaconda Python and libraries for Python including (but not  limited to) pyTest, SQLALCHEMY, Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, MatPlotLib,  PrettyPlotLib, Suds (for SOAP APIs), Requests (for REST APIs), PyODBC,  IBM_DB, PyTd, cx_Oracle, Jupyter Notebook (formerly known as iPython  Notebook), Apache Airflow, SQLAlchemy, Redis, Mongo and Flask    ? Lead efforts to develop Call Center ETL, Reporting and Analytic tools across Centene's various support applications including Avaya CMS, Avaya POM,  Avaya Experience Portal, Uptivity Call Recording, IEX Workforce Management,  QMindshare, IVR, and other in house developed applications.    ? Modeled and Built Kimball Model Data Warehousing in Teradata Data  Warehouse.    ? Lead Data Support efforts for our Call Centers Applications, especially our in house IVR systems build with Avaya Experience Portal and supported by our  own in house custom built APIs and reporting tools.  ? Built business facing reports using both SQL Server Reporting Studio and MicroStrategy.    ? Supported Business Users and other Data Customers Senior Reporting Analyst/ Developer Centene Corporation August 2013 to May 2015 Lead a team of up to 4 other developers on Business Intelligence and Data  Warehouseing Tasks.  ? Diagramed, analyzed and repaired existing MS SQL Server 2008 r2 based Data  Warehouses and ETL. Reduced daily load processes from 8+ hours to 45  minutes.  ? Built Gap Analysis on existing databases and convinced corporate leadership  that resources were needed for a new Data Warehousing solution to support  NurseWise's business.  ? Modeled, Built and Implemented a new MS SQL Server 2010 Data Warehouse  integrating 5 primary CRMs with MSSQL data stores (2 separate highly  customized instances of MS Dynamics CRM, 2 separate instances of LVM  Clinical CRM and TruCare Care Management CRM), Avaya Telephony (data  store in Informix DB), NICE IEX (data sources were a mix of PostgreSQL and SOAP APIs), and other vendor data provided in flat files and Excel files.  ? ETL for the Data Warehouse was done using SQL Server Integration Services  based ETL processes automated using Tidal Enterprise Scheduler.  ? Maintained and Updated ETL and Data Warehouse Modeling in coordination with Centene's internal MS Dynamics CRM customization development team and  their 2-3 week release schedule.  ? Designed and lead implementation of SQL Server Reporting Services based  reporting, both delivered and self service via MS Sharepoint, while phasing out Visual Basic for Applications based Excel and Access reporting.  ? Designated Subject Matter Expert and Lead Technical Designer for all new  Implementations requiring additional buildout and New Product Development. National Data Manager PICO National Network May 2012 to July 2013 Built voter engagement prospect analysis using predictive models, Catalist data,  Census data, demographic information and other commercial data sources in tools such as Voter Activation Network, Excel, Access and PostgreSQL  Designed, drove and implemented Data and Experiment Informed Programs across our campaign and voter engagement efforts, including implementing Field  Experiments in coordination with the Analyst Institute, designing, analyizing and  implimenting the results of A/B script testing and other  ? Used VB Suite to automate the analysis and normalization of data that  came in from affiliates before loading it into the PostgreSQL based Analytics and Data Warehouse. Use this to create actionable reporting using VBA and Excel  ? Led technical implementation of our voter engagement program,  coordinating with vendors and PICO's 34 independent affiliates in 17 states to nationally roll out a voter engagement data system to staff and volunteers,  including the development of training, site visits and ongoing support.  ? Led project to end our internal data islands into one database from which one could produce informatic reporting on all levels of our engagement with  leaders, volunteers and staff to allow us to better achieve our goals.  ? Generated Business Intelligence reporting for measuring effectiveness of program and  ? progress to goal using SQL, Access, Excel, Python, GIS tools and Google  Documents.  ? Coordinated all contracting with outside vendors for all data and database  projects.  ? Ran local Interactive Voice Recording Polling for affiliates using Voter  Activation Network, Catalist data, Excel and PostgreSQL.  ? Recruited Data Leads from 27 of our 34 independent affiliates and provided support to build their capacity to take advantage of data for their  affiliates as well as the national organization.  ? Regularly engaged with national and local campaign staff to support  programs working on immigration reform, fiscal issues, prison reform, civil rights,  health care, jobs and various ballot initiatives. Wisconsin Data Director Wisconsin Democratic Party/Obama For America August 2011 to May 2012 On Senior Staff for the Obama Campaign in Wisconsin, reporting directly to the State Director, and sitting in on daily Senior Staff meetings, as well as weekly  regional Senior Staff meetings.  ? Interfaced with Obama National Data and Analytics staff in Chicago, IL and Data  staff at the DNC in Washington, DC.  ? Designed and Implemented Data and Experiment Informed program branded as  "Own Your Vote" to track low propensity voters as we ramped them up across a ladder of engagement from not having a Photo ID to getting to the polls. This  long term organizing and voter engagement program eventually drove African  American turnout in Milwaukee to exceed 2008 levels.  ? Managed in state voter engagement and volunteer recruitment, retainment and engagement data using Voter Activation Network, Excel, Access, and HP Vertica  SQL.  ? Automated daily report generation using VBA, Windows Events, Excel and SQL  and HP Vertica Data Warehouse..  ? Delivered business intelligence reporting and analysis to other members of Senior Staff using HP Vertica SQL and Excel.  ? Structured, implemented and trained staff to facilitate the data capture, tracking  and management of over 300,000 voter contact conversations, 10,000 1-1  meetings and over 10,000 volunteer shifts using Voter Activation Network.  ? Administered Voter Activation Network for the Obama Campaign in Wisconsin Statewide Grassroots Coordinator Tobacco Free Missouri/University of Missouri Health June 2010 to August 2011 Trained local Tobacco/Smoke Free coalitions on how to better organize and use  technology to build a stronger coalition and push for public health policy using  Excel, WordPress and Voter Activation Network.  ? Built voter analysis using Cancer Society polling, Catalist Data, public health data  and Census data using Access and Excel.  ? Coordinated the efforts of the American Cancer Society, American Heart  Association, American Lung Association and other public health groups on local  smoke-free policy in Springfield, Jefferson City, Fulton, O'Fallon, and Cape  Girardeau. Rural Missouri Field Organizer Alliance for Climate Protection/Repower - Field, Missouri, US April 2009 to May 2010 Field Organizer Iowa Democratic Party June 2008 to November 2008 Music Director/Executive Board WVUR 95.1FM- Valparaiso University May 2005 to May 2008 Chair Armed Congressman Ike Skelton D-MO June 2007 to August 2007 Services Committee)  DC Intern Education BA in History Valparaiso University Skills SQL SERVER (5 years), SQL (7 years), PYTHON (5 years), ETL (5 years), EXCEL (10+ years), Spark (Less than 1 year), Kafka (Less than 1 year), flask (2 years), falcon (Less than 1 year), PyData (5 years) Additional Information Computer Skills:  Python 6 years; Flask 3 years; Teradata 4+ years; Apache Airflow <1 years; MS SQL Server  (Including Integration Services/Server and Reporting Services/Server): 4+ years; PostgeSQL:  8+ years; IBM Informix 3+ years; Excel 8+ years; Access 8+ years; MySQL 8+ years; Google  Docs 8+ years; Tidal Enterprise Scheduler 1+ years; MicroStrategy 2+ years; ETL 5+ Years; Data  and Experiment Informed Programs 5 years;