Sr Django/ Python Developer Sr Django/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Systems Architect Murray, UT Senior IT professional with experience in systems administration, software development, databases, and network and host security. Seeking opportunities where I can leverage my experience to support internal and external customers, work closely with team members, and add value to an aggressive company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Django/ Python Developer Verisys - South Jordan, UT August 2015 to Present I do software development in Python using the Django framework to update and maintain the core code for the Verisys site. I also provide technical direction for the team and mentor several mid-level and junior developers. Systems Architect Endurance International Group December 2014 to July 2015 I worked on several projects for various teams in the Bluehost division. Projects with the Systems Reliability/Deployment team primarily revolved around the new silo model of hosting that was about to be deployed. Security and network management within the silo were reviewed. With the Systems Engineering team, I worked on planning and deployment of silo management systems. With the Systems Operations team, I worked on infrastructure projects in support of the new billing and customer management system, including directory services and DNS management. Senior SRE LinkedIn April 2014 to December 2014 I supported the Cloud/Graph team. This included monitoring and deploying software in production and test environments, helping software engineers understand real world operational issues and difficulties, and maintaining internal tools and documentation. I was involved with complicated issues including scalability, reliability, and availability, and worked closely with both developers and operations/NOC staff to ensure that the functionality of the LinkedIn site to operate smoothly. Contractor - Sales Engineer V3 Systems February 2014 to March 2014 I learned the product line and familiarized myself with VMWare and it's VDI support, including VMWare Horizon, View, the vShpere tools, and other relevant VMWare products, along with V3's integration of their specialized management tools and utilities. I participated with the booth team at the HIMSS14 conference in Florida, taking care of setting up the technical equipment in the booth and making sure the the demos were able to run. This involved working closely with senior staff at V3, Sphere 3D, and UniPrint. I participated in several pre-sales calls, helping sales staff with sizing and technical details relating to V3's product line. EDA Developer Fusion-io November 2010 to February 2014 At Fusion-io, my responsibilities included acting as a departmental systems resource for the Logic Team. I maintained the department resources (server farm, desktop services environment, tools, licenses, etc). Working in a Dev Ops role, I also supported and maintained the build system including build scripts in Python, adding new features and support for new FPGA architectures to the existing build template. I mentored the other support staff in the Logic Team, and assisted with development and operation of the "FiRe" (Firmware Reliability) automated test suite. I maintained and support the PostgreSQL database containing both configuration and statistical data for the build, simulation, and FiRe systems, along with additional data received via the QA department and outside organizations. I worked closely with IT to support Logic Team users and systems. Principal Software Engineer Raytheon October 2007 to November 2010 Oakley Networks was acquired by Raytheon in October 2007 and is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Raytheon operating as Raytheon Oakley Systems. As part of the transition, my job moved from an IT role to a software engineering role. I worked on the Appliance Team with an eclectic group of systems administrators, Oracle DBAs, and software engineers. I maintained the Perl-based software that managed the clustering capabilities of the appliance and allowed various systems configuration tasks to be performed via a menuing interface. I also developed and maintained key monitoring functions within the appliance, including an SNMP interface and MIB. I provided third tier support to customers and developed several tools and utilities to help recover from various system problems. I designed and built the Service Appliance component of the clustered appliance system, and assisted with the Single Server model that was deployed to several customers. I participated in the load testing and validation testing of various system components. Senior Member of Technical Staff Oakley Networks March 2005 to November 2010 At Oakley Networks I worked as a senior sysadmin in the IT/Engineering department. In my role as technical lead for the appliance team, I supervised and mentored a small group of IT specialists in maintaining and developing subsystems related to the platform that our company's Linux-based appliance runs on. I maintained not only the operating system environment, but also the glue functions that permitted the Java based application to manage and interact with the OS. I also provided direct support to the development teams. Unix Systems Administrator Regence BC/BS 2005 to 2005 In my brief time at Regence, I worked primarily as a Unix Systems Administrator, maintaining the multiple AIX and Solaris systems as part of a team of admins. I also was assigned a project to design and implement LDAP authentication across the Unix hosts in the company. I designed the system and built out a testbed in about two weeks using OpenLDAP and PostgreSQL as a backend. I used the PADL software (nss_ldap) to handle the client-side. Other projects of note were revamping the software used to manually distribute login information (I turned an 800 line shell script into a 200 line Perl script, and enhanced the functionality of the script at the same time) and setting up a wiki which we were evaluating for the purpose of tracking narrative information about the several hundred Unix systems across the organization. Contractor Cadence Design Systems 2003 to 2005 At Cadence, I worked on the SFI (Server Farm Initiative) team on the gridMatrix system. gridMatrix is a software package designed to manage workflows in a distributed "grid" of computers and improve the performance of batch processing systems such as LSF, Sun's Grid Engine, and Condor. It is implemented in object-oriented Perl, and takes advantage of the latest techniques in software design. In addition to implementation work on three versions of gridMatrix, I also worked at Cadence deploying the software to internal customers. I worked closely with engineers from all over the US, as well as in India, to ensure successful deployments saving the company millions of dollars in wasted compute resources. Senior Systems Architect flipdog.com/TMP WorldWide June 2000 to July 2002 web site, specifying the systems used, installed the systems in a remote data center environment, managed the remote systems, and supervised an operations and support staff. I was also the senior member of technical staff, providing technical information to other groups within the company (marketing, sales, development, and customer support). I managed production and internal systems, including a mix of Solaris, HP/UX, FreeBSD, Linux, and Windows (98, 2000, and NT). I also was responsible for both internal and external networking, security (including firewall and VPN configurations), and vendor relations (both for systems and application software). Operations Manager PartNET, Inc March 1998 to June 2000 I managed production systems and internal development systems, including a mix of Solaris, FreeBSD, and Windows NT. I managed the company Internet connection, including router setup and maintenance, firewall setup, and operation, and all contact with network service provider. I managed company telecom resources, including phone system, voice mail, and relationships with both telecom service and maintenance providers.    I acted as Sales Engineer, spearheading multiple customer deployments and "bake-offs." This involved both pre- and post-sales support, working directly with customers and partners. Senior Systems Administrator iMALL, Inc March 1996 to March 1998 Production systems administration and software development, mainly in Perl. iMALL no longer exists. The site currently using www.imall.com has nothing to do with the original iMALL. Systems Administrator Brigham Young University December 1989 to February 1996 I managed computer systems, networks, and labs for the Department of  Mathematics at BYU. I supervised student employees. I also provided basic  computer support to faculty and staff of the department, and Unix expertise to other campus organizations as required. Software Engineer Olympus Software March 1987 to November 1989 I worked on UltraCalc and UltraCalc II, spreadsheet software for Unix systems. Programming primarily in C, but with some assembly language for specific platforms. We ported the software to over 30 Unix variants. Also managed systems, networking, and connectivity for the company. Education Computer Science Montana State University September 1982 to December 1986 Links http://www.peterson-tech.com/~jlp Additional Information Specialties Systems Design and Architecture (HA, SAN, hardware, software), Unix  Systems Administration (Linux, AIX, Solaris, HP-UX, FreeBSD), Network  Management and Design (Cisco, HP, F5), Network and Host Security  (firewalls, architecture, policies), Scripting/Programming (Perl, Python,  shell, C, tcl/Tk), Database Administration (Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL),  Software Configuration Management (ClearCase, Perforce, Subversion,  CVS, RCS)    Skills Perl Unix Linux  Shell Scripting Software Development Solaris  Software Engineering Subversion Python  System Administration Oracle Software Design  C Bash Distributed Systems  Programming PostgreSQL Apache  MySQL Tomcat Security  Network Security Architectures Firewalls  High Availability LDAP FreeBSD  TCL Network Administration Unix Shell Scripting  CVS HP-UX AIX  Clustering IRIX Sun Grid Engine  Condor