Technical Leader Technical Leader Technical Leader - Cisco Work Experience Technical Leader Cisco - San Jose, CA February 2016 to Present Add automation suites to the existing test framework in an effort to test REST API of Cisco Nexus Fabric Manager's as well as extend existing test framework to provide new test capabilities  ? Utilizing data driven methodology developed backend tests and increased coverage 300% in two month.  ? Automate VM lifecycle using python, Bash and native VMWare tools.  ? Extended existing Test framework to handle automatic installation of the Cisco Nexus Fabric Manager's in VMWare environment using ESXi APIs  ? Extended existing Test framework to setup network configurations.  ? Responsibility included setting up continues integration plans using bamboo environment Automation Engineer Contract in Apple - Sunnyvale, CA March 2015 to February 2016 Designed and extended custom test harness to validate structure and functional behavior for data resources using python  ? Designed framework to extend existing collection of tests and provide extensibility  ? Added new tests and maintained existing tests to mirror change in functionality and data structure.  ? Communicated with number of teams to provide reporting and continues run for the testing framework  ? Planning, prioritization of test related tasks, as well as designing tools to increase productivity of team members.  ? Managed release and production testing, as well as bug analysis and bug reporting Sr. QA Engineer Zimbra - San Mateo, CA May 2014 to March 2015 Design and extend automation functional and installation tests for Zimbra Collaboration Email in Ruby.  ? Designing and implementing various types of tests, such as REST API, CLI tests, stress, limits, resource Leaks, error injection and recovery, installation and upgrade to validate various aspects of the product.  ? Test Execution and analysis of results, filing bug reports, tracking test case results per standard, and resolving issues  ? Working closely with Development and Product Management to ensure timely and quality product releases  ? Daily activity include setup environment in multi server environment. Software Engineer Acxiom Corporation - Foster City, CA August 2012 to May 2014 Designed and implemented dynamic user interfaces, and supported existing UI solutions by fix bugs and troubleshoot operational issues as they occur  ? Extensively used JavaScript / Python / JQuery UI / Bootstrap-Twitter framework  ? Implement backend UI support using Python, created multipurpose scripts to support developing environment  ? Experience in agile application development environment with low management overhead.  ? Developed REST API tests using BDD approach.  ? Closely cooperating with QA and Product development teams. Software Engineer III in QA Cisco - Milpitas, CA May 2011 to August 2012 Design test frameworks and maintain existing test suites for TelePresence Management System based solutions, including solutions for MS Outlook server and Video Comm. Server  ? Developed tests based on Ruby / cucumber and Python / lettuce test frameworks  using REST APIs on component and system integration levels  ? Maintain Hudson environment and ran regression and feature test suites during software releases, including debugging and the root cause analysis for failed  tests.  ? Designed tools, researched new technologies to solve test development related  Tasks and created VMware based test environments.  ? Trained less experienced QA personnel PHP Developer QuinStreet - San Mateo, CA February 2010 to April 2011 Managing the full development cycle for the web sites, redesigning back-end and fixing front-end while transferred sites to the unified content engine from different platforms using CodeIgniter MVC framework.  ? Designed PHP back-end server side services to support robust functionality and features rendered on the front - end and back-end of sites  ? Enhanced existing Web sites and recreated features based on different data source.  ? Coding of data-driven Web Applications and User Interfaces involved usage of PHP, CSS and JQUERY  ? Implemented SEO best practices, optimized URL structure and work close with site's producer to increase monetization on custom client listings  ? Wrote custom scripts to scrape data from database or live site. Software Developer III Acxiom Digital - San Mateo, CA August 2008 to December 2009 Full life cycle development of a web based content management solution - design, implementation and maintenance.  ? Develop UI features backed by database, based on specs using Python, Cheetah templates and JavaScript.  ? Come up with creative solutions for new features and bug fixes  ? Interact with members of project management and quality assurance teams  to affectively reach product quality goals in a dynamic environment.  ? Write quality source code which meets defined project standards and deadlines. Automation QA Engineer Acxiom Digital - San Mateo, CA May 2007 to August 2008 Development of automated test cases from functional specifications, to validate custom solutions for Acxiom's email management framework and web based framework for custom campaign management  ? Design of back-end tests for custom solutions and tests for web based campaign management system  ? Development of test automation framework for web applications  ? Work with development and project management to determine test requirements and strategy, Interact and communicate effectively across all teams in the organization, specifically Engineering, Product Management, application engineers and QA  ? Log detailed and accurate defect reports and follow the defects through resolution and closure. Automation Engineer (contractor) VMWare - Mountain View, CA January 2007 to May 2007 Development of Automated harness for Virtual Machines testing and management / configuration of ESX server for multiple OS.  ? Creation / Maintenance of automated tests using Python for current and newly developed features utilizing in-house built frameworks  ? Extensive exposure to system / network administration for MS Win / Linux while creating test development environment for a large number of VMs  ? Work closely with software developers and product managers on the troubleshooting and verifying bugs  ? Work with development and project management to determine test requirements and strategy Python Automation Engineer (contractor) Google Corp - Mountain View, CA January 2006 to January 2007 Development / Maintenance / Testing of Automated Distributed Frameworks for Build, Installation and Configuration of Financial Applications, deploying services which are secure and highly usable by QA and Release Engineers using python.  ? Created new and integrated existing testing automation frameworks for supporting new features / applications  ? Responsibilities include supporting CRM Development team and liaison with offshore vendor team  ? Environment configuration and maintenance, bug resolution and upgrade management are the part of everyday support responsibilities.  ? Work closely with the core development teams during all phases of the automated framework development and support. Software QA Engineer (consultant) Genesys Telecommunications Labs Alcatel Company - Walnut Creek, CA August 2002 to January 2006 Develop / execute test plans / scripted test suites maintenance / functional tests and assist developers to identify / diagnose software defects for Customer Relations Management Software (CRM) from SAP, Microsoft and Siebel.  ? Daily responsibility include technical / configuration support of the development team  and managing outsourcing QA group, build verification / deployment /configuration management / problem resolution, set up and manage QA test environment.  ? QA integration / certification of program suite / and newly built components.  ? Acceptance, Regression, Functionality and Integration testing, error monitoring and creation of Engineering Requests  ? Working toward overall product quality improvement by successfully assuming a full responsibility for the correctness and usability of complex applications components  ? Functional test experience with sophisticated GUIs and CTI protocol  ? Advanced bug tracking/triage resolution experience Sr. SQA Engineer TCSi Corp - Alameda, CA December 2000 to November 2001 Designed and executed automated tests (ATE test programs) using Python scripting object oriented language in the SOLARIS environment for integration, system, regression, stress, functionality, performance and GUI testing for the Catalant based Service Quality Management solution (SQM).  ? Creation of the test strategies, writing test plans as well as execution of the unit tests based upon examination of system software designs;  ? Identified and logged the bugs, supported the product development team in the design process and throughout the full product's life cycle;  ? Provided technical support for Outsource Development Center, tested and shipped patches, developed test strategies.  ? Daily responsibilities included activities with bug-tracking database, SNMP MIB libraries configuration, utilization of FTP, TELNET, SQL, maintenance of automated test cases, source control with ClearCase, white/black - box testing and Routing configuration. Education M.S.C.S California State University East Bay 2010 B.S.C.S California State University East Bay 2006 B.S.E.E Tel-Aviv University 1998 Additional Information ? 16+ years of combined QA automation / software development experience that includes:  • Experience in design of custom test frameworks for system integration / performance test using JSON DB / REST / SOAP API (Apple, Cisco)  • Web development backend + frontend  • back-end web sites transfer (QuinStreet) and development of the web based  content management Software (Acxiom Digital)  • Test automation development for virtual machines software in VMware  • Designed Automated Installation / Configuration Frameworks extensively  used by QA and Release Engineers (Google)  • Experience managing outsourcing teams as well as junior team members  ? Developing tools for web/script/ui testing using Ruby / PythonC / IronPython.  on the variety of platforms Win, Linux  ? Experience with database driven web applications including  PHP/ Djungo /JavaScript / CGI / Bash, website implementation with MySQL /Apache/  Python; FLEX / C#/C/C++, IronPython + .Net / Ruby / Ruby + Sinatra, Padrino  ? Enjoy exposure to new products and developing new skills, quick learner  Self-motivated, detail-oriented, proven ability to learn and adapt to new, complex  development environments.