Risk Research Systems Engineer Risk Research Systems Engineer Risk Research Systems Engineer Jersey City, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Risk Research Systems Engineer Lucus Advisors 2015 to 2018 Administered Linux (Amazon RHEL, CentOS, and Ubuntu), Cisco IOS, and Windows infrastructure hosting research and production systems system (on-premises and AWS)  ? On-boarded numerous conventional and alternative datasets totaling several terabytes  ? Created in-house processes and worked closely with myriad data vendors to correct, connect, and augment data including mapping different datasets onto each other  ? Cataloged available or potentially acquirable data and served as reference to quantitative and fundamental analysts using traditional financial and alternative data  ? Developed and deployed production systems on AWS leveraging multi-Availability Zones to provide fault tolerance and RDS snapshots for rapid database recovery  ? Developed numerous technological solutions based on close collaboration with fundamental and quantitative analysts' needs or anticipated future requirements using Python, Linux, and SQL (Oracle 11g on AWS RDS, PostgreSQL, AWS Athena) Contract Oracle / GIS / Python Developer Hatch Mott MacDonald 2014 to 2015 Served as a principle geospatial database developer on a 45 million dollar gas infrastructure project supporting a regional utility with customer base exceeding 380,000  ? Integrated new data products and offshore teams into legacy systems and processes  ? Developed numerous triggers, procedures, and ad-hoc queries in PL/SQL (Oracle 12g)  ? Python scripting to automate GIS processing using ESRI ArcSDE and Google Maps API  ? Served as a reference, mentor, and technology evangelist for Oracle (PL/SQL) developers learning ESRI GIS technology, geodatabase database design, and Python DBA / Developer GP Renewables and Trading 2013 to 2014 Developed business tools using VBA and SQL in support of a team of electricity traders in a demanding rapid prototyping environment  ? Supported business critical desktop applications, Amazon Red Hat Enterprise Linux Servers, and production database systems (PostgreSQL, IIS, Microsoft Access) IT Intern Comrise Technology 2013 to 2013 Maintained IT infrastructure, applications, and systems using Microsoft Active Directory, Google Apps for Business, MySQL, and MSSQL Server  ? Performed data engineering tasks including cleansing, quality control, and ingestion using SQL, TSQL, and Python with both structured and unstructured data Intern Global IT Colgate-Palmolive 2013 to 2013 Developed custom financial tools using ABAP for global SAP implementation Pollution Control Specialist to Specialist Intermediate. Air Quality Minnesota Pollution Control Agency 2009 to 2012 Administered a network of 9 air quality monitoring sites with 25+ instruments, meeting or exceeding USEPA uptime, audit, and data quality requirements  ? Pollution Control Technician to Specialist. Field Operations Center.  ? Supported a diverse array of environmental field programs with warehouse operations  ? VBA development for the fleet management team Sales Associate Best Buy 2008 to 2009 Non-commission Sales.  ? Sold home theatre systems and components GIS Technician to Specialist/Biologist AMEC Earth and Environmental 2007 to 2008 Developed GIS and data management solutions for military and civilian clients  ? VBA development for Microsoft Excel with a focus on data quality and integrity  ? Field operations on a variety of groundwater and unexploded ordnance projects Research Assistant University of Illinois 2005 to 2007 Analyzed zooplankton samples curating data to meet US EPA Standards  ? Processed continental scale riverine habitat data using ArcGIS 9.X, Model Builder, and Python scripting  ? Deployed advanced multivariate statistics linking zooplankton community structure to water quality and fluvial geomorphology data Fisheries Technician Minnesota Department of Natural Resources 2004 to 2004 Performed periodic surveys on lakes within northern Minnesota Microbiology Technician Silliker Laboratories 2003 to 2003 Screening for food-borne pathogens per ISO and FDA standards for data quality Education M.S. New Jersey Institute of Technology March 2018 M.S. in Natural Resources and Environmental Sciences University of Illinois - Champaign, IL 2007 B.S. in Fisheries and Wildlife Conservation University of Massachusetts - Amherst, MA 2003 Skills AWS, SQL, Python, Linux, Oracle, PostgresSQL, Cisco, Information Security Links https://stackoverflow.com/users/2441632/zerodf Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner January 2018 to January 2021 Security+ January 2013 to January 2016 Network+ November 2012 to January 2016 CCENT September 2013 to September 2016