Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer looking for a career at a dynamic company working with data and engineering solutions. Gainesville, VA Twenty years serving in the U.S. Army Reserves. Python Developer. Content Database Analyst / Software Engineer. Geospatial Analyst. Data manager. Deputy Operations Chief. Full Motion Video Imagery Analyst. Intelligence Section Supervisor. Applications Analyst. Help Desk Support Analyst. Electronics Supervisor. Personal Computer / Network Technician. Electronics Technician. Extensive experience with Linux, Python, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Jquery, AJAX, Firebase, Ubuntu Server, Bash, MySQL, PSQL, Sublime, SQLAlchemy, Flask, Microsoft Office, OpenOffice, ArcMap, Remoteview and other automation systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer BrainGu - Chantilly, VA March 2018 to Present Worked with a team to build Django prototype applications. Used Javascript, JQuery, AJAX and other technologies to solve problems. Conducted research to assist in validating prototype core functions. Maintained code with Git and Bitbucket. Tested deployed code on multiple systems. Senior Python Engineer / Facilitator Metronome September 2017 to March 2018 Collaborated with other engineers to produce class content for an agency course on computational thinking. Instructed classes of up to 26 people on the use of Python to solve problems. Worked with small groups of students to solve problems in that setting. Met with multiple students individually to work on real world agency problem sets that solved long running efficiency issues relating to the creation of Javascript files containing point data. Built multiple imagery manipulation GUIs to aid in the analysis process. Built a blockchain demo to showcase the functionality to a group of students. Web Developer / Software Engineer BAE Systems - Chantilly, VA March 2017 to September 2017 Built a web based graphics template that included a main dynamic map with multiple dynamic map insets using Javascript, Leaflet.js and JQuery. Evaluated Leaflet.js as a replacement plugin for a customer mapping application. Updated Javascript functions in the customers main web application to toggle new layers. Created new pop out windows to display reference data in the customers application. Added customer requested features to the application and made modifications to existing features. Worked with the GIS team to setup Geoserver and built test applications using WMS and WFS. Tracked bugs in the application and serviced tickets in Jira. Used Subversion to commit changes made to the application. Software Engineer / Database Analyst / Linux Systems Adminstrator NT Concepts - Tysons Corner, VA April 2016 to March 2017 Analyzed and optimized Arcpy scripts to speed up generation of shapefiles. Developed a Python GUI which created shapefiles and analyzed the time until completion. Translated inoperable Perl file modification scripts into functional Bash programs and deployed them on multiple systems. Conducted Drupal updates as per the customer schedule of data releases. Built Bash, Awk and Sed scripts to automate data analysis and processing. Executed SQL commands to modify customer Oracle and PostGREs databases. Performed quality control checks on customer datasets prior to incorporation into the live database. Downloaded, formated and styled OSM data and deployed the service in ArcGIS Server within Microsoft Azure. Built a complete tile cache of the OSM data. Administered the ArcGIS Server instance, added storage and migrated ArcGIS cache to a new drive. Built mobile geospatial PDFs using QGIS. Attained Comptia's Security+ certification. Deputy Operations Chief, FMV Analyst, SME, Senior Trainer Counterterrorism Airborne Analysis Center January 2008 to April 2016 Responsible for ten team members, their position assignments, product quality and customer satisfaction. Qualified on all position and trained twenty team members in those positions. Conducted 24x7 operations for seven years and six months. Validated the AIMES system during Empire Challenge 2011. Computer Applications Analyst 55th Sustainment Brigade (USAR) February 2007 to January 2008 Maintained the Centralized Operations Police Suite (COPS). Received calls during core hours and captured data and problem sets and resolved issues.   Built technical documents to describe system architecture and standard operating procedures for user assistance. Intelligence Section Supervisor 55th Sustainment Brigade (USAR) October 2006 to January 2008 Trained and supervised ten Army personnel. Assigned and reviewed research projects in support of future operations. Conducted scenario training to evaluate section capabilities and identity information gaps. Electronic Test Facility Supervisor A Company May 2004 to October 2006 Supervised nine Army Soldiers conducting line replaceable unit  maintenance. Maintained logs on inventory, shop supplies, parts on order and issues outstanding. Trained three Soldiers on shop procedures. Deployed and redeployed $29,000,000 worth of equipment in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom with zero loss. Personal Computer / Network Technician Allied Forces Northern Europe (NATO) March 2001 to April 2004 Conducted maintenance on personal computers and networks. Installed networks throughout the campus. Conducted 24x7 network operations at AFSOUTH in support of KFOR. Deployed a Signal Support Depot to Kabul, Afghanistan. Conducted computer and network operations at three different   locations (Kabul International Airport, Multinational Brigade  Headquarters and Kabul NATO Headquarters). Electronic Test Facility Technician G Company February 2000 to February 2001 Responsible for technical manual upkeep and calibration of system parts. Maintained automatic test equipment. Used knowledge of digital electronics, microprocessors and computer systems to troubleshoot equipment. Operated oscilloscopes, meters, signal generators and logic probes to locate faults. Education Some college Skills GIS, FMV (8 years), Python (9 years), Bash / Sed / Awk (5 years), Javascript / JQuery (5 years), HTML / CSS (6 years), Flask (5 years), C (2 years), Django (1 year), Linux (10+ years), AWS (2 years), Firebase (2 years), SQL / PSQL / MySQL / SQLAlchemy (4 years), MySQL, Javascript, Web3.py / Geth (1 year), jQuery, Git Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: Staff Sergeant November 1998 to Present Certifications/Licenses Comptia Security+ CE December 2016 to December 2019 Additional Information Python Specific Libraries:  Hashlib  PIL / Skimage / Scikit / OpenCV  Kivy  Tkinter  Flask / Django  IPython / Jupyter Notebook  Matplotlib  Numpy  SQLAlchemy  Cython  Web3.py    Side Projects:    • Built an algorithm to create faux exposures from a single source image. This removed the potential for overlay errors when creating an HDR image. Created a Flask application to utilize the system. Also used C to speed up the processing from over six minutes to 20 seconds.  • Built a social media application for a small company. Used Flask with SQLAlchemy and used Bootstrap 4 for the theme. Integrated a crytpo wallet system using Geth and Web3.py for Ethereum.