ColdFusion, .NET, Python, SQL and SSRS Developer ColdFusion, .NET, <span class="hl">Python</span>, SQL and SSRS <span class="hl">Developer</span> ColdFusion, .NET, Python, SQL and SSRS Developer - ORGANIC ONLINE MEDIA SOLUTIONS, INC Coral Springs, FL Work Experience ColdFusion, .NET, Python, SQL and SSRS Developer ORGANIC ONLINE MEDIA SOLUTIONS, INC November 2013 to Present Create, modify, and maintain ColdFusion web applications, web services, and components (CFC's)  ? Create, modify, and maintain SQL stored procedures, functions, and triggers, occasionally fine-tuning query performance using various tools (i.e. actual and/or estimated execution plans)  ? Recommend and/or implement changes to various algorithms (SQL stored procedures, SSRS reports, web application and/or services code) to keep up with changing trends in affiliate web portal lead submissions, clicks, conversions, and scrub  ? Maintain data entry application code (C# .NET) and modify code to accommodate requested features to satisfy business requirements  ? Develop and enhance features to backend API components of web services on the Python/Django MVC framework  ? Develop and modify SSRS reports based on business requirements from sales, IT, and traffic teams  ? Debug existing code on all applications due to internal or external changes (3rd party APIs, networking changes, etc.)  ? Provide occasional enhancements to internal call center web portal and call center software (Five9 VCC) to tightly integrate with external affiliate call center web portals and/or APIs for increased productivity of agents  ? Ensure 24/7 availability and manage critical incidents; troubleshoot issues to full resolution  ? Identify modification needs for the Integration architecture to accommodate project  ? Monitor performance, disk space, database replication and usage for all web and SQL servers that support the system using scripts (either in ColdFusion or SQL) and by setting up scheduled tasks (CF or SQL)  ? Integrate existing architecture to interface with 3rd party vendor APIs (REST, XML, JSON) and/or web services  ? Coordinate IT resources for the purposes of supporting projects and enhancements  ? Set up proof of concept environments to stay current on the newest technologies Web Systems Administrator CITRIX SYSTEMS, INC November 2012 to October 2013 contractor)  ? Monitor backlog of open tickets and determine trends and opportunities for improvement  ? Be responsible for the day to day administration and availability of systems and applications  ? Support and optimize the existing applications to meet the business requirements  ? Monitor performance, disk space, and usage for all servers that support the system  ? Partner with other IT departments to ensure data and systems are available and performing within SLAs  ? Follow the company change control process to implement system and application changes  ? Coordinate daily troubleshooting efforts for business users  ? Support the ongoing relationship between Citrix IT and the customer/business unit  ? Perform duties associated with build of environments for PROD/DR  ? Meet with application owners, as directed, to overview any system and data problems; recommend solutions  ? Coordinate and perform monthly outage weekend and quarterly disaster recovery tests  ? Coordinate with system vendors to resolve systems issues in a timely manner  ? Ensure 24/7 availability and manage critical incidents; troubleshoot issues to full resolution  ? Ensure the environment is current on service pack, patches, firmware updates, versions, and security fixes  ? Communicate task and status updates to team leaders and managers  ? Assist other teams as needed  ? Coordinate IT resources for the purposes of supporting projects and enhancements  ? Perform continuous reviews to align technology to process, improvement, and adherence to standards  ? Provide recommendations to projects for integration requirements  ? Identify modification needs for the Integration architecture to accommodate project  ? Define, implement, and standardize monitoring  ? Set up proof of concept environments to stay current on the newest technologies Junior System Admin and Assistant Application Developer KOBENI, INC July 2011 to September 2012 Assist IT support team in resolving escalated technical support tickets opened by clients and internal employees  ? Assist development team in testing and mass deployment of updates to software components across email  broadcast servers  ? Write and deploy automated scripts to test performance of email broadcast servers, identify IP conflicts and mismatches, and open tickets with appropriate vendors for resolution of trouble tickets  ? Configure, troubleshoot, secure, and maintain company's database and web application servers  ? Configure, troubleshoot, and maintain switches and routers at company office and data center  ? Develop and update automated testing, configuration, and deployment scripts based on current needs as specified by the software development and IT support teams  ? Debug and pinpoint shortcomings in existing algorithms and code and recommend fixes to the development team  ? Assist web application development team with code to interface and integrate company websites with 3rd party  vendors' API's  ? Perform tasks of IT support specialist periodically as needed  ? Development Projects Completed: ? Automated deployment and installation of OnPoint Mail software suite to email broadcast servers provided by clients  ? All-in-one desktop (Windows) application for IT support team to respond to incoming support tickets, access commonly used ESP functions,  troubleshoot configuration related issues with email broadcast servers Mid-Level IT Support Specialist KOBENI, INC August 2010 to July 2011 Provide day to day computer hardware and software helpdesk support to internal employees  ? Respond to technical support tickets for company's proprietary web-based email marketing software  ? Assist web application development team with ColdFusion code to interface to 3rd party vendor's API's  ? Develop automation and scripting tools for the deployment, maintenance and troubleshooting of company's current and upcoming web-based software platforms  ? Manage and maintain company's private LAN and Internet configuration and recommend upgrades to equipment  (servers, routers, switches, etc) as needed  ? Maintain, troubleshoot and upgrade company's data center equipment (servers, KVM over IP, switches, routers,  firewalls, etc) as needed  ? Work with NOC staff of partnered web hosting companies to process rDNS requests, resolve network connectivity  issues, troubleshoot hardware malfunction, and resolve software and configuration issues with their servers when clients open trouble tickets regarding the servers Desktop Support Technician - Computer Science Department BROWARD COLLEGE January 2010 to August 2010 Deploy OS Ghost images (Win7, Server 2008, CentOS) to classroom workstations in preparation for classes  ? Install and configure equipment (Cisco routers and switches, access servers, workstations, cables, etc) prior to class  ? Prepare and configure Cisco routers and switches for Cisco training courses based on hands-on problem  requirements (for CCNA, CCNP, Security courses)  ? Manage Active Directory and Unix LDAP domain users, group policies, etc.  ? Provide helpdesk support to department faculty and staff  ? Assist senior IT admins in testing, implementing, documenting, and deploying various types of server deployment and implementation projects on campus production network (i.e. application, file, web, management, terminal, etc):  ? tested and deployed a campus-wide WSUS server for a MS Server 2008 based Active Directory domain with Windows 7 based workstations configured with Deep Freeze  ? tested and implemented a remote Solaris NX server to provide students with secure web-based remote  access to their SunOS Solaris desktop environment  ? installed and configured Solaris SunFire X4170 blade servers on campus network Technical Installation Project Manager LAVINA INTERNATIONAL, INC July 2008 to August 2010 Survey potential job sites and obtain system requirements from customers  ? Develop system installation project proposals based on customer requirements  ? Provide Point-of-Sale integrated solutions for retail customers concerned about employee and customer theft  ? Supervise team of CCTV installers and technicians at job sites during installation  ? Periodically follow up with customers on installation issues and/or changes to system after installation Senior System Technician LAVINA INTERNATIONAL, INC April 2006 to July 2008 Configure POS systems or cash registers for POS integration (i.e. view live transactions with video) with DVR units  ? Configure IP network with DVR for live remote viewing of cameras (firewall configuration of routers/gateways)  ? Configure PDA, PocketPC, iPhone, and Blackberry devices to view DVR system over a 3G or GPRS connection  ? Write POS text filtering protocols for text overlay of POS system transactions on the DVR display at job sites  ? Write customized recovery scripts (using AutoIt) to configure DSL/Cable gateway/modem for port forwarding Intermediate System Technician LAVINA INTERNATIONAL, INC January 2005 to April 2006 Build and custom configure PC-based DVR units for customers  ? Perform installation and final configuration/adjustment of CCTV cameras and DVR units  ? Perform repair and maintenance service of CCTV cameras and DVR equipment during service calls  ? Provide helpdesk and technical support for CCTV systems and components installed by company  ? Assist customers with diagnostics and troubleshooting equipment over the phone during technical support calls  ? Remotely troubleshoot PC-based DVR units during technical support calls  ? Remotely configure PC-based DVR units based on changing customer needs Education Certificate in Information Technology Management BROWARD COLLEGE September 2008 to August 2010 BS in Computer Engineering and Electrical Engineering UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA September 1999 to April 2004 Additional Information ? Windows Desktop Administration (Win2K/XP/Vista/7) ? Programming (VB .net, Java, C/C++, C# .net)  ? Windows Server Administration (MS Server 2K3/2K8) ? Scripting (AutoIt, VBScript, Shell Script, Batch, Python)  ? Unix/Linux Administration (Red Hat, CentOS, Solaris) ? Web (HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, ColdFusion, PHP)  ? Databases (SQL 2k3/2k8, Postgres, Access, SQLite) ? Networking (TCP/IP, Routers, Switches, Cabling)  ? PC Repair, Troubleshooting, and Upgrades    Certifications and Training