Director of Technology Director of Technology Videri - Director of Technology New York, NY Work Experience Director of Technology Videri - New York, NY January 2019 to Present Manage our multi-city developer teams across both consumer and enterprise platforms  • Act as a business leader, recruitment and development of departmental staff  • Work from our NYC office (with frequent travel) to serve teams that span NYC and Montreal  • Interact with business partners across organization to identify opportunities and drive growth  • Direct development and delivery of software solutions to meet customer needs  • Identify and execute business process improvements related to technical applications, systems and  client implementations  • Work alongsire hardware and coordinate business objectives  • Contribute in key customer meetings to promote existing relationships  • Represent company’s software development expertise in winning of new business along with sales  department  • Coordinate with senior leadership across organization and stimulate overall resource allocation as best  fits business objectives  • Identify priorities and communicate technology impacts throughout decision making process  • Forecast, plan, research and select new technologies enabling company to attain business goals  • Lead and direct interdepartmental teams towards integration of these new services into organizational  network  • Accoutnable for the design and operation of the production infrastructure  • Provide strategic direction for technical assessment, definition, prioritization, architecture, design and  deployment of new products and services  • Analyze various technical solutions and recommend based on technical and financial merits  • Ensure proposed new features and capabilities integrated into existing networks using company current  and future network technologies  • Identify and investigate advanced technologies offering company significant technical and financial  benefits  • Lead and manage QA and DevOps teams, promoting cross functional exectution and communication Enterprise Architect Solstice Consulting - New York, NY May 2018 to Present As a Principal, additional responsibilities also include: Employee Engagement - Actively coach and provide mentorship to your mentees who are mentors of mentees. Provide support and sense of  belonging to your mentees and members of your branch. Ensure you understand our employees' top  concerns, feedback, and have an open communication to you  * Delivery & Execution of Business - Designing artifacts, Data Flow, Platform, Models, Now/Near/Next  architecture diagrams Working with client counterparts to create a digital solution including use of 3rd  party SaaS and PaaS, REST APIs, JSON payloads, Cloud Solutioning (GCP), Git Collaborations, Jenkins CI/  CD, Microservice Architecture  * Working with agile teams as the authority in technical direction and mentor for development teams.  Assisting in identifying "North Star" for a client's digital transformation. Working closely with PO's  external stakeholders and internal Scrum Master to create high impact User Stories. Mentoring  development team to make sure they have all that is needed to implement architecture and user  stories.  * Active member of the Strategic Committee, and Architect Leads Circle. Senior Technical Consultant, Project Manager FinmaxTech, LLC - New York, NY December 2016 to June 2018 As a part of the Finra's appointed monitorship at a "large global bank" (LGB) I evaluated all Equity, Fixed Income, Derivative Systems/Processes and Procedures for accurate submission of Electronic Blue  Sheets (EBS), including but not limited to, following trade and execution data from all Front Office Trade  Entry points to the Exchange (or counter-party), back to LGB's internal databases, reviewing filter logic, transformation logic, etc., and then finally to the EBS reporting system - Trade flows include reaching  out to third party vendors who may have been outsourced to manage xx security types - in this case, Derivatives - all internal development teams (London and NYC), along with infrastructure and process  owners.  * Thoroughly reviewed the firm's EBS processes to ensure adherence to all policies and procedures as stated by Finra for reportable trades (Equity, Derivatives and Fixed Income) by evaluating entire trade  process (pre- and post-) for completeness, accuracy, and timeliness  * Conducted comparison analysis between EBS reports with source data systems for all mandatory  fields - Also, ensuring that EBS reports represented accurate trade data, including all client information, and all street side transactional data. (SQL Server)  * Interviewed LGB's EBS documentation and process owners to ensure data flowed uncorrupted from source to destination (SQL Server) - conducted in-depth discussions with LGB vendors for a more  complete overview of data flow process.  * Reviewing LTID requirements and processes for Large Traders and making sure that the process  adheres to Finra EBS requirements.  * Participated in weekly internal team updates and reviewed, with LGB, status reports of pending  action items to "clear" any issues outstanding. Reviewed documentation of their closed items and results following with LGB staff throughout entire evaluation process. Python Developer, Consultant Kognico - New York, NY January 2018 to May 2018 Developing an arbitrage program for crypto-currency trading ( Python). The program presents arbitrage  opportunities for currency pairs for a list/set of crypto-currency exchanges. If the arbitrage falls within a provided (dynamic) threshold, initiate trades from each respective exchange. Obviously, pairs must  match in quantity, and prices must fall within threshold of optimal calculated prices for a buy and sell  order. If all criterium is satisfied within algo, execute the order within the exchange. Log all activity. Team Lead/Project Manager Fred Alger Asset Management - New York, NY November 2011 to December 2015 Reviewed/Interviewed multiple Account Management software for integration into Fred Alger's  Operational Systems. Reviewed business, budget and personnel constraints - interviewed business  owners for functional 'requirements' of system vs. the 'nice to haves'. Participated in Operation  meetings and conducted a comparison analysis for P&L and attributions. Budget of 2.5 mm dollars.  * Upgraded Charles River 7.0 to 9.0 (Trading Software) at Fred Alger -- Conducted unit tests for mock orders. Thorough review of system's pre-trade compliance, post-trade compliance, accounting  processes with confirming UAT with business owners. Participated and oversaw database backups and DR scenarios with vendor. Oversaw user training, firmwide, on new UI for upgrade.  * Calculated Fund Performance for current Qtr, Month, Year, 3 Yrs, 5 Yrs, 10 Yrs, and Inception for monthly Flash Report PDFs (Adobe InDesign) for Institutional Clients - including total Cash, total MV,  top 10 contributors, top 10 detractors, graphical analysis of sector holdings vs benchmark - holdings  data extracted from Factset. (C#, SQL Server)  * Developed and Deployed multiple webparts (C#/.Net/Sharepoint 2010/SQL Server 2008) for Institutional and Research Analysts for us by Marketing and Research groups.  * Maintained and generating an ever-growing number of SSRS reports - reports generated as tools, reporting risk and compliance, reporting for support, etc. approx. > 500 reports, across 3 sites (NYC,  Jersey City, Morristown (NJ))  * Provided ongoing communication between IT and business users, and updated c-suite executives  (CEO, COO, traders, analysts, PMs, etc )  * As Lead Software Engineer, managed 2 developers and co-managed the Infrastructure team of 4  employees, as it relates to software changes or initiatives.  * Project managed all software projects - Order Management System - Charles River (Traders/PM), Compliance Reporting, EOD ingoing and outgoing reporting.  * Held Annual Reviews with developers and participated with annual reviews for entire IT team. Partook  in bonus conversations with each team member during review. Consultant/Sr. Software Developer Goldman Sachs - New York, NY March 2010 to March 2011 Developed a blotter framework for sales and trading (C#) applications. Entailing the development  of common widgets by extending base classes (3rd party or core .net), utilizing interfaces (public, protected, and/or otherwise). The goal of this long-term initiative is to create a common look, feel, and  expected functionality from widgets that are used in various applications throughout the firm. Provided  customizability to developers in form of config files.  * Presented UML and Activity diagrams for team members and proposed ideas for possible  implementation for more complex solutions.  * Active participant in weekly team code-reviews before UAT builds - branching out releases for any hot  fixes between major releases. Version control was maintained utilizing Tortoise SVN - merging code into the trunk/branch after each code review. Code reviews served to be a pivotal process to ensure quality  code.  * Created and owned unit tests for each line of code produced (.Net's NUnit).  * Maintained an astounding 80% coverage report - use of Mock classes to satisfy tests if the code  required interactivity with another system/service.  * Updated and documented changes onto GS's wiki page. VP, Lead Software Engineer Pali Capital LLC - New York, NY February 2009 to February 2010 * Managed relationships with heads of Equity Derivatives and Fixed Income desks.  * Gathered requirements for a project to create a "true" pricing system for the Fixed Income OTC  products in attempts to create a dark pool. Initiated research into how Bloomberg Numerix prices  structured products.  * Architected and Developed a CRM for the Fixed Income broker-dealer and Bank desks, with feedback  from business teams (C#) - keeps track of contacts and their status ("Dead", Prospect, "Active", etc.);  aligned trading history and product type interests for each client, when the we last contacted the BD, though what medium Integrated with Microsoft Outlook calendar when created meeting dates on the  CRM - this way we would have this data historically. Preferred to use Infragistics libraries in .Net 2.0  SP2. (C#)  * Served as lead developer, through entire life-cycle of DTAS (Equity Derivatives) - trade allocation  system with ability to track trade from initial sales call, to trader execution, created relationships between trades and research team that may have contributed to the sales call, etc. Parsed FIX  messages from varying execution systems and created customized confirmation reports (with  Avg.Price, Number of shares executed, etc ) for client reporting.  * Redesigned the commission payout scheme, as per the request of the CFO, to include transaction  costs to be passed down to the trader. This requires a review of database schema and overall data  flow.  * Assisted in development for PTrade (Equity/Fixed Income) - system fed EOD allocations to Clearing  and Commissions system. Consumed data trade feed provided by TOMS (Bloomberg). (C#)  * Trained traders and their assistants in using all in-house proprietary systems.  * Held meetings for the Operations Group on background trade flow, and how to access historical  trades on the new system.  * Managed and employed 4 direct subordinates.  * Held annual reviews and partook in bonus conversations. VP, Application Development Manager Trilogy Global Advisors - New York, NY June 2006 to July 2008 Successfully supervised and coordinated 2 disaster scenarios between our offices in NYC and Florida.  Case 1: NYC goes down, major systems fail over to Florida. Case 2: Florida goes down, major systems  fail over to NYC. This includes documentation for database failovers and switch failovers. - all database  failovers (SQL 2000), proprietary windows services (C#), 3rd party software - carefully using CNAMES to quickly adjust for impromptu shut downs and start ups (of the replicated back-up box), etc  * Promoted a standard for development using SDLC principles on all future projects - from data  gathering, architecture building, implementation, unit and UAT testing, leveled deployment, version  control, documentation  * Maintained milestones on all active projects.  * Participated in SAS70 certification audit, providing technical specs and documentation regarding all  applications and employee access.  * Performed as TGA's systems analyst for life of trades from putting an order on the blotter through to the execution and confirmation of trades. (C#)  * Participated in growing our technology department to its current size, that is two infrastructure  employees, three developers, and a reporting analyst.  * Produced data flow documentation for archive on many of TGA's main systems that were non- existent prior to arrival or outdated.  * Created a database change committee which met weekly to discuss and approve any changes  that had been requested for rollout from UAT to production (as we did not have a formal DBA). This  committee included me, the head of IT and our recently hired developer.  * Partook in weekly Operation meetings where any issues and updates were reported to senior  management. Meeting notes were posted on the intranet.  * Initiated and architected the firm's intranet for various departments. (ASP.NET) Centralized employee  data management and departmental sites.  * Managed & Employed 3 direct subordinates.    Trilogy Global Advisors, New York, NY  AVP, Senior Software Developer, Team Lead    * Provided desk support for all 3rd party software (Line Data's LongView Trading System, DTCC's  Omgeo CTM via SWIFT, OASYS - intraday files, OASYS International).  * Developed middleware software that intercepted real-time trades/executions/orders during the trading day for counterparty confirmation reports. (COM, C#.Net, FTP)  * Served as main liaison between vendors and traders on issue regarding 3rd party trading software.  Served as main liaison between trading desk (front office) and middle office with development team.  * Served as lead developer, through entire life-cycle of the Operation console project. Responsibilities  include analyzing/gathering business requirements from PMs and traders, architecting backend data  structures (creating tables, triggers, stored procedures), implementing code for client/server-side  processing and creating deployment scripts to update clients with new version of software. (T-SQL, C#.Net)  * Enhanced Trilogy's proprietary accounting and position management systems (VB, VB.Net, C#.Net)  Generating a performance improvement in the TradeSys (accounting system) of over 98 percent.  * Participated in meetings with PM's and developed excel scripts that provide benchmark values for positions, etc vs FactSet (VBA), market data related statistics from Bloomberg (Extrapolating data,  BBUP, etc ) (C#.Net)  * Served as Database Administrator. Maintained database structures, backups and restores (database  mirroring). Created DTS packages for exporting reports at the end of day. Followed protocols before making any release into production.  * Wrote batch scripts to send and load end-of-day/start-of-day trades  * Actively used VSS (Visual Source Safe) for version control on all software changes. This includes any  changes made to stored procedures, scripts, table definitions, etc  * Performed as desk support when needed. Senior Software Engineer Balyasny Asset Management - New York, NY March 2004 to June 2006 Served as Senior Developer and Business Analyst for multi-strategy/multi-fund. Superior and accurate  daily reliance and support is expected of such a position - direct interaction and active meeting  participation with Chief compliance officers, head of desk, CEO, CFO, Controller, and Operations  and prime brokerage - Designed and implemented development projects to satisfy business needs  accordingly. (C#.Net)  * Integrated Sungard's Eagle and Advent Geneva (Fund Accounting) with our legacy systems. (C#.Net, Eagle's proprietary development, T-SQL) This includes moving over historical data to the new systems  and running both systems parallel to ensure no loss of data.  * Co-Architected firm's underlying database structures for building up of the firm's Security Master  (SQL Server 2000) - the go-to source for all security look-ups throughout firm's internal and third-party  relational systems following RDMS principles.  * Development lead in implementing firm's intra-day position management system. (multi-threaded  client-side WinForms, server-side processing, .Net reflection) This was a somewhat real-time position  mgmt system - parsing FIX messages from electronic trading desks, ECN, brokers, etc and imbedding  additional security to the system - requiring a username and password, only allowing views to portfolios that corresponded to the user. User was also given the capability to change their view -  warnings were highlighted for ease to the user (as requested by the user). (C#.Net)  * Architected trade allocation distribution for end-of-month position rebalancing and daily allocation  monitor between relational accounts for paravasu - Fixed Income, Equity, Equity derivatives (futures, options, futures options, swaps) (C#.Net)  * Designed and implemented the user-interface and developed back-end processing for start-of- day upload processes into third party risk systems - Sungard's Panorama. (SQL Server 2000, shell  scripting)  * Designed and developed reconciliation tools for EOD operational processes - asset classes include  equity, futures, internationals, and options. (C#.Net, SQL Server 2000). Daily reconciliation reports  were sent to associates for confirmation.  * Actively participated in most current discussions with Accounting and Operations for firm's move to choose a new Administrator - designing a process for file transfer, relations with various data source  providers (Prime Brokers, trading platforms, etc ) (C#.Net)  * Managed and designed over 40 reports for Risk, Compliance, Executive Committee, Operations  and Trading - creating relationships between market data, risk data, and firm's holdings. (VS 2005  Reporting Server) Senior Specialist/Programmer - Global Private Client Merrill Lynch - Jersey City, NJ July 2002 to March 2004 Initiated and developed an automated XML trades processing service for Merrill Lynch traders and outside competing dealers for all fixed income trades within GPC's Consults - (.Net and Unix-based  platform).  * Implemented and integrated a distributed, COM dependent, client-based sub-system for generating  equity and fixed income trade corrections executions with firm-wide trading systems - includes  development and management of 3 server-side applications (VB, C#, .Net), utilizing MQSeries for information transfer, and OleDB (Sybase) for information maintenance.  * Developed a daily Fixed Income Blotter generator and email process for respected dealers with daily trade activity (Visual Basic) - Later, enhanced and converted core modules (VB.Net, C#.Net) to  maintain conformity with underlying systems.  * Designed and participated in the development of an interactive web-based application for training  new-hire technologists (JSPs, Servlets).  * Enhanced existing equity modules, alongside the development and creation of various proposed  modules, to maintain continuity in supporting evolving trading solutions (Unix-C).  * Supported and maintained equity routing systems and fixed income trading systems for all trading  activity within Consults.  * Implemented a proposed equity routing system through XML SOAP messages, via a synchronous  Webservice (Java). Education B.S in Computer Science and Applied Math and Statistics Stony Brook University, College of Engineering and Applied Sciences May 2002 Skills ALGORITHMS, DATABASE, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, Togaf, SOA, Solution Architect, Salesforce Additional Information Skills    DATABASE, SQL SERVER, SQL, UAT, SHAREPOINT, Solution Architect, Togaf, SOA, Hana    SKILLS: Database: MS SQL Server, CLR functions, Oracle, Azure  Reporting: SharePoint 2010, Visual Studio Reporting Server 2013, Crystal Reports 10, Adobe InDesign  CS5  Version Control Software: VSS (Visual Source Safe), Vault, Tortoise SVN, GitHub  UAT: NUnit  Ticket Tracking System: JIRA  Algorithms: Big(O) notation  Scripting: PowerShell, Python  Data Science Packages: NumPy, Pandas