Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Walmart Bentonville, AR • 6 Year's experience in IT industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java /J2EE, Django, flask projects.  • Handy experience in developing web applications by using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML,DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Extensive experience in Python web frame works like Django, Pyramid and Flask in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture and automating complex workflows using Python for Test Automation.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX, Linux and Open stack.  • Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) and experience in Agile Software Methodology.  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, Pycharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Experienced in advance SAS analytical and programming techniques.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity).  • Experienced in designing web pages and Graphical user interfaces, front end layouts on the web by using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap framework, PHP, XML, JavaScript, node Js and Angular Js.  • Hands on experience with Docker Puppet, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, selenium testing were performed.  • Good experience of Web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Perl and Shell scripting.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Expertise in working with different databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB (2.6,2.4)  • Experience in writing ETL script using python Django setting for database operations and other activities like extracting, transforming and loading.  • Experienced with integration of MongoDB and Casandra databases.  • Experience with Version Control, ideally SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Experience with GUI frameworks such as PyJamas, Jython.  • Experience in implementation of Python web frameworks like Pylons, Web2py and Python Servlet Engine(PSE).  • Have good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum).  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Hands on experience with installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat server.  • Experienced in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy & bottlePy framework.  • Handy experience on using Big Data Cloud Services like PIG, HIVE and Kafka for Map reducing by which large amount of data can be easily analyzed.  • Good programming, problem solving skills, commitment & result oriented, with a quest & zeal to learn new technologies.  • Practical experience with working on Multiple-Environments like Development, Testing, Production.  • Good understanding of Jingo ORM and SqlAlchamy .Good knowledge in CORE JAVA and OOPS concepts. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Business Logic using python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked with various Python libraries such as Six, Click, Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML.  • Used Query and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web  based solution.  • Used python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular JS for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update  customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Having very good experience with BIG DATA.  • Created Business Logic using python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GITHub.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Git and GitHub for micro service and continuous deployment.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django's view controller and templating language to create.  • Responsible for creating company's internal platform called DCAE by using python to develop and test the components.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Used Click package to create the command line interface.  • Used Consul for Service Discovery and to create Key-Value pair.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON files and load the data into the Consul.  • Used Python IDE Pycharm for developing the code and performing unit test.  • Involved in development using Python, bug fixing.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Developed Python based APIs by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, IntelliJ IDEA.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Created data access modules in python.    Environment: Python3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Paychex - Rochester, NY February 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Mainly used Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Used Spark for interactive queries, processing of streaming data and integration with popular NoSQL database for huge volume of data.  • Good knowledge on the complete Cassandra with in detail understanding of read, write and delete processes.  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Experienced in using Python, Django, PHP, C++, CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, AJAX and JSON for developing web applications. Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python and made a Celery action using REST API call.  • Writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL databases.  • Worked on Chrome/Firefox Developer tools to verify network speeds using Network Throttling, making sure all the elements are rendering correctly irrespective of the Screen size, Resolution, orientation, etc.  • Python's Unit Testing library was used for testing various programs on python and other codes.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and Pycharm.  • Design, investigation and implementation of public facing websites on Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Java Script, MS SQL Server, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JQuery, Jenkins, Spark, PostgreSQL, PHP, C++, XML, AJAX, JSON, MySQL, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text, Pycharm. Java Developer System Soft Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in UI using JSPs, HTML and Struts Tags.  • Involved in development of the Java classes using core functionality.  • Developing Form Beans, Action Classes.  • Involved in unit testing of core functionalities using Junit.  • Implemented the log functionality by using log4j API.  • Implemented Data Access Object and Singleton factory pattern for the persistence layer.  • Implemented business logic on server-side as Entity Beans and Session Beans (EJB, JDBC, and Web Logic).  • Developed database components for interaction between the front-end application and the database.  • Deployed the application on Web Logic Application Server.  • Used SQL for accessing the oracle database using JDBC problems and mentoring the business users.  • Develop EJB components encapsulating business logic.  • Experience with API Gateways.  • Used CVS as a version control system and for code management.  • Played an active role in testing the application by writing test cases for different scenarios. Used JUnit testing tool to test the code.  • Worked on persistence layer using O/R Mapping Tool Hibernate with Oracle Database.  • Deploy Beans, Servlets, JSP's, and EJB's.  • Involve in Unit testing and Integration testing.    Environment: J2SE 1.5, JSP 1.2, Core Java, Spring1.2.8, Hibernate3.1 EJB, HTML, DHTML, Struts, JavaScript, JDK 1.5, Oracle 8.1, SQL, Log4J, Junit, ApplicationServer, Eclipse 3.1, Subversion, Web Services(SOAP), Windows XP etc. Java Developer Diebold Software Services PVT Ltd November 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using Struts Model View Controller (MVC) design Pattern.  • Designing the Graphical User Interfaces using HTML, JSP and JSF.  • MYSQL is used to store the data.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations and validation framework for server side validations.  • Involved in configuring web.xml and struts-config.xml according to the Struts framework.  • Extensively used HTML, JavaScript and AJAX for client side development and validations.  • Hibernate frame work is used in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database.  • Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP. Developed Web Services for Payment Transaction and Payment Release.  • Wrote test cases in Junit for unit testing of classes and implemented the logging using log4j.  • Involved in deploying the application in test environment using Tomcat.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Servlets, SQL, JSP/HTML, XML, JQuery, AJAX, Hibernate, DB2 RDBMS, ANT, Tomcat Server, Log4J, Web Services. Education Master of Science in Software Engineering Andhra University Skills HTML (4 years), JAVA (4 years), SQL (4 years), WEB SERVICES (4 years), AJAX (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks Django, Flask, Pycharm and CSS Bootstrap    Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS  Programming Languages C, C++, Python-3.5 & 2.7, Java, SQL,PL/SQL,MySQL, MongoDB  Python Libraries Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, PyTables  Version Control GIT ,GitHub  Databases Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB,  IDE's/ Development Tools Py Charm, and Sublime Text.  Web Services AWS, Amazon S3    Operating Systems Windows, Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SNMP, SMTP, REST.  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins  Tracking Tools JIRA.