Senior Python developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Senior Python developer - Bijou Commerce I am an enthusiastic, motivated and friendly individual with seven years experience in the  development of technology based solutions.    In the last 4 years, I have been developing a digital butler in mainly Python called the  Cyman Digital Butler. A conversational software tool designed to help organise yourself,  automate tasks, find information, and eventually connect to your home. It has been  featured in Forbes, and I have spoken at the Croydon Tech City event presenting the  application, explaining the development process, and my personal journey.    Currently, I have an Android application released on Google Play called Cyman Mark 2  (https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cyman.android). It is currently been  rated 4.5 stars with over 130,000 downloads.    I also developed a Chrome web app which I released more recently, Cyman Mark 3  (http://tinyurl.com/cymanmark3) which, combined with the Cyman Mark 3x Chrome  extension, allows the user to converse with their computer, demoed here:  http://tinyurl.com/cm3dashboard. Since it's release in April 2013, I have over 4,000 users,  a thriving community and ratings of 4.5 out of 5 stars.    Cyman's server, written in Python houses the brain function which utilises regex and  some natural language processing using the nltk module. In addition, I make use of  several modules including social network APIs, complex datetime operations and google  appengine APIs.    I have experience using Django on Google App Engine, began using Tornado Web  Server for the sake of increasing my knowledge, and more recently have been using more  flexible frameworks like Flask.    I maintain a blog "Futurist Minds" which I update regularly  (futuristminds.wordpress.com), demystifying technologies for the general reader and  other interests of mine in the area of motivation. Additionally, I have a blog "Musings of  a Technophile" where I discussed the future of Google Chrome and the Chromebook.  The audience it is aimed at is both technical and nontechnical persons.    Technical:    Programming, Scripting and Markup Languages: Python, JavaScript/JQuery, Java,  HTML 5, Ruby, C# .NET, CSS3, ASP .NET, Bash script, KSH, VB/VBA, XML,  SharePoint, PHP, C++  Frameworks: Flask, Django (Google App Engine), Sqlalchemy, Python Tornado server,  Python pyjs, Ruby on Rails, Java Jersey REST API, Wicket  Databases: Postgresql, Mysql, MongoDB, Sybase, DB2, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server,  comdb2  Development Environments and Other Applications: Linux/Unix environments, Git, Vim,  Ansible, Virtualenv, PythonAnywhere, IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio,  Microsoft Office Applications, BusinessObjects, MagicDraw UML Developer Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Python developer Fuse Mobile Technologies & Bijou Commerce August 2015 to Present Backend development for various mobile applications (lead developer)  ? Fine tuning and upgrading the development process in the team.  ? Liaising with key stakeholders and business owners to set requirements, set tasks for developers, review their code and report to the business.  ? Integrating with the Magento commerce API with Python.  ? Retrieving product data by scraping, csv feeds or consuming REST APIs.  ? Writing RESTful endpoints using Flask.  ? Organising and giving learning lunches to spread knowledge across companies.  ? Used Python, Flask, Sqlalchemy, Alembic, Ansible, Postgresql, Ubuntu,  CentOS, JIRA Cyman Digital Butler Personal Project January 2010 to Present Python software developer, Project creator    In the last four years or so, I have been developing a digital life assistant called the  Cyman System. It is a conversational software tool designed to help organise yourself,  automate tasks, find information, and ultimately connect to your home. The product has  been praised by Kate Russell, the BBC Technology programme's "Click" presenter, and reviewed on Technology blog "Hongkiat"   http://www.hongkiat.com/blog/virtualassistantcymanmark3/ . In addition, it has been  featured in Forbes  (http://www.forbes.com/sites/rogerkay/2014/03/31/everybodyneedsabutler/).    Website:  http://www.cymansystem.com/  Cyman Mark 2 Android application (released 11/2/2012):  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cyman.android  Cyman Mark 3 Chrome packaged application (released 23/5/2013):  https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/cymanmark3/bngjhgpcofckfokhoplbnjodbim  johkm  Cyman Mark 3x Chrome extension (released 25/04/2013):  https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/cymanmark3x/iibamljlgoomkjnpjhhjgjdfjnjf  gmom  ? Initially created the Cyman website in Python, HTML5 and CSS3 using the PyJS  (Pyjamas) framework. Eventually wrote a more mobilefriendly responsive  website from scratch in HTML 5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  ? Created a home computer assistant, written in Python. Wrote a small Google  Talk client to enable communication via xmpp.  ? Created an Android Application written in Java (the Cyman Mark 2 app). It  communicates with a web service I wrote in Python on the Google App Engine.  ? Wrote a Chrome web application written in JavaScript, HTML 5 and CSS called  Cyman Mark 3, which communicates with the same Python web service as the  Mark 2.  ? Researching artificial intelligence techniques, and developing my Python  programming skills.  ? Handling communication with users and responding to feedback on various social  networks including a large Cyman Google+ community. Project managing and recording bugs on Trello. Also managing app promotion demos on YouTube. Senior Python developer Skimlinks December 2014 to June 2015 Developing back end code to track user interactions on publisher pages.  ? Developing tools during innovation time ("Skimovation!") for new starters.  ? Using Python to connect to APIs or scrape web sites to reconcile commission  information.  ? Used Python, JavaScript, React, PHP in a Unix and Mac OS X environment Python/Chrome app developer Digital Catapult September 2014 to December 2014 Developing an open source copyright hub, both back end and front end work.  ? Creating Chrome extensions for demonstration to MPs.  ? Using Python, Tornado, Django and JavaScript (with Chrome API's) Python/Django developer Blackwell Publishing July 2014 to August 2014 Developing an EBook and ELearning site  ? Developing Sales reports and bulk purchasing functionality  ? Enforcing standards such as Python PEP8, git usage, and using JIRA  ? Using Python with Django Python Senior Developer, Automation Testing Framework BSkyB May 2014 to July 2014 Developing automation tests for Sky's new set top boxes.  ? Developing the framework used to automate the tests.  ? Formulating and educating the team on SVN version control use.  ? Using Python Senior Developer, Online Insurance Simply Business January 2013 to May 2014 Developing web sites for online insurance with Ruby on Rails.  ? Front end design and development with JavaScript, CoffeeScript and CSS3  development.  ? Managed backend data with the MongoDb NoSql database.  ? Contributed to project planning with Trello, hypothesis inception and experiments.  ? Test driven development with Cucumber and RSpec.  ? Lead initiatives to improve communication between office sites including  facilitating retrospectives (primarily using Google+ Hangouts).  ? Frequent code reviews using GitHub pull requests.  ? Practising Lean and Agile methodologies.  ? Attending various technical conferences like "MongoDB" and "Devs Love  Bacon".  ? Using Ruby on Rails and MongoDB Software Developer, Python utilities and Java Trading and Portfolio team JHC Plc September 2010 to January 2013 Developed software for JHC's flagship web portfolio solution, Figaro Web.  ? Became the subject matter expert on Maven and Subversion during a time when our developers migrated to new development processes.  ? Contributed to key decisions on the new development processes, which involved  learning key technologies quickly, sharing knowledge by creating internal wiki  entries, deciding standards for developers and helping my colleagues with technical issues.  ? Planned project timelines and wrote project specifications, often presenting them to clients.  ? Pioneered the first Figaro Mobile applications, designing and writing the REST  API service.  ? Developed various financial web components including Order Entry, Portfolio, and Regular Payment systems  ? Wrote Python utility scripts to refactor complicating Java code and Maven  artifacts. Financial Software Developer, Asset and Investment Management Bloomberg February 2009 to August 2010 AIM) Trading  Systems  ? Gathered project requirements from the Sales team and clients, managed  expectations on feasible deliverables given time constraints and planned project  timelines dependent on deadlines given.  ? Liaised with my counterparts in New York both in working together on projects and in pro actively gathering information from them on Bloomberg products like  Foreign Exchange blotters or Compliance applications so I could make necessary  enhancements to them  ? Designed and developed a complex Compliance auditing system which, given an  Account, retrieves all compliance rules applied to the given account and provides an audit trail showing how they have changed  ? Implemented a new "Trade Idea" function which needed to integrate with legacy  functions, where traders can suggest trades to brokers which can be managed by brokers and easily turned into actual trading orders with a mouse click  ? Responsible for a quick win for a key client which allows them to route Fixed  Income orders to a trading platform in a country of their choice , which gave more  autonomous control to different regional branches of the same client using the trading platform Trading System Developer, Private Wealth Management (PWM) Technology Goldman Sachs International January 2007 to February 2009 Developed a front office cash management system which was a webbased Java  application saving around half a working day for the Sales teams  ? Maintained and supported (24/7) the legacy application currently in use in Hong  Kong, London and Zurich  ? Reverse engineering the legacy application for conversion to the new platform,  designed the architecture of the new system and implemented its database  structure ( DB2 )  ? Set up code review sessions for my team mates in London and New York, both presenting code for review and participating.    Client Reporting Developer  ? Implemented database storage of statement translations to French, Italian, Spanish and German  ? Liaising with the teams responsible for the language translation of client  statements GE Healthcare project C# Tool Developer Sapient August 2005 to December 2006 Business Objects Operational Reports  Developer    ? Developed tools used for the support of the Operational Reports across QMS and  UCLH. The support team was assisting around 2000 users and 150 reports  ? Provided a 3rd line support service fixing live reports, managing and triaging  issues as they arose  ? Designed and built tools to automate Support processes in C# and .NET  ? Designed and built a tool in C# and .NET to provide additional functions to  Business Objects application utilizing their COM interface with minimal  documentation.  ? Fixing and resolving Operational Reports bugs.    Sapient Hiring Team Program Management, Technical Advisor  ? Managed and planned teams of Sapient representatives to attend campus events and interview candidates.  ? Updated and improved the careers section of the Sapient website. Also managed the content and edits to the pages.  ? Created C# and .NET solutions to automate certain processes and to create a user  friendly interface for updating databases.  ? Development of a SharePoint site to allow sharing of information, tracking of tasks, and ensure backup of resources. Education BSc in Mathematics and Computer Science Imperial College - London 2002 to February 2005 A Levels in Mathematics Trinity School - Croydon 1994 to 2002 Skills Python (6 years), Javascript (8 years), Java (10+ years), PostgresSQL (4 years), Architecture (1 year), MongoDB (2 years) Links https://futuristminds.wordpress.com/ http://google.com/+UgoAno http://fiverr.com/ugoano https://about.me/ugo.ano Awards David Howarth Group Project Prize at Imperial College 2005-07 Led a team who designed and developed a dual purpose J2SE application that teaches students the fundamentals of Imperative languages, and enables lecturers to create an imperative language of their own syntax using XML metafiles. Additional Information Basic Spanish, French and Japanese, grade 7 Piano, grade 4 Violin, advanced salsa dancing, blogging, voiceovers (credit on IMDb), working out.    Previously: Wing Chun, Rugby (1st team Trinity School, 1998 second highest all time try scorer), Duke of Edinburgh Award.     Athletics   - 100m men’s champion – English School (under 17s),   - representing England in 100m Schools Home International Champion representing England.   - Have won Surrey County, South of England, and other regional titles.