PHP/ Python Developer PHP/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> PHP/ Python Developer - Westchester Putnam One Hartford, CT Ajay (AT) webilent (dot) com - 860.640.4584    ? Worked over 8 years in web application development using LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP) technologies.  ? Extensive experience with Open Source applications using PHP, XAMPP, MYSQL, Oracle, CSS, LINUX, PERL, JavaScript and HTML.  ? Extensive experience in web development using PYTHON FLASK, MARIA DB, UWSGI, NGINX WEB SERVER.  ? Extensively used web development tools SQL Work Bench which is GUI for MYSQL.  ? Used Eclipse, Dream weaver, Notepad++ and Edit Plus editors for developing sites.  ? Good knowledge on Perl scripting.  ? Good knowledge on Adobe Photoshop  ? Good knowledge on XHTML validation and DOM.  ? Hands on experience in working with SQL Server 2008, MYSQL, C and C++.  ? Hands on experience using JSON.  ? Managed each project from start to finish, do full QA and tech support.  ? Re-designed and re-coded web site backend for inner-company employees to edit the contents of the websites through various forms.  ? Worked on a team of professional web developers and project managers in a fast-paced environment.  ? Extensive Experience in working on Manual Testing Methodologies like Agile-SCRUM, Black Box, White Box, Waterfall Methodology and Spiral Methodology.  ? Fixing issues and technically supporting the end users by making the code changes on the application.  ? Analyze the specifications provided by the client.  ? Created Bug reports, Test execution reports, Test progress reports etc.  ? Performed Usability, Back-end, Browser compatibility testing.  ? Involved in manual testing of the Web GUI application  ? Strong Analytical, Problem Solving and debugging skills with excellent understanding of system development metrics, techniques and tools.  ? Writing detailed scripts for the Test cases complying with agreed standards for different testing levels like System Testing, Regression Testing, UAT etc.  ? Dynamic team player, positive thinker, deadline aware flexible personality. Strong communication skills and work ethics. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience PHP/ Python Developer Westchester Putnam One March 2015 to Present stop & Westchester Putnam Internships    Project: Eligibility engine for one stop    Rewriting the Westchester Putnam one stop, Internships, Jobs waiting and Summer Jobs web applications into one web site using latest technologies such as PYTHON3.6, Flask, RESTFUL API, JSON, UWSGI, NGINX Web Server and Maria DB, SQL Alchemy in LINUX.    Environment: CENTOS 6, PYTHON3.6, Flask, UWSGI, JSON, JQUERY, NGINX Web Server, SQL Alchemy and Maria DB.    Westchester Putnam One Stop (WPOS) is an online website and application that connects people who want jobs to businesses that have them. Its destination is to quickly and easily find great local jobs in Westchester & Putnam Counties. We offer all the resources you need to land your dream job, including a robust platform to search jobs, alerts to keep you up-to-date on the latest opportunities, resources to advance your career, and more. Post your resume and get noticed by top Westchester/Putnam employers today!  As a registered, local business you can use this site to really connect with job-seekers in the Westchester/Putnam career market. Access resumes, post jobs & recruits qualified candidates. Tell us the type of skills you are looking for help us to identify trends that will inform, train and build a skilled workforce for future needs. Gain a competitive edge for your company with advanced recruitment solutions that organize and simplify your Westchester/Putnam area candidate search.    Summary:  The Westchester Putnam Internship Connex is a dynamic, one-stop portal designed to connect locally enrolled college and university students with local internship opportunities at area employers in Westchester and Putnam Counties. The Internship Connex Web site helps students break into their field of study and prepares them to enter the workforce post-graduation, while providing local employers with immediate support and a long-term recruitment pool of educated and talented workers. We hope this tool serves our students and businesses well.    Project: Jobs waiting    Jobs Waiting is a new regional program let by Westchester County and Westchester-Putnam workforce development board (WPWDB). Our partners include the city of Yonkers and Putnam, Rockland, Orange, Duchess, Ulster and Sullivan counties.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding the Architecture of the application and gathering the functional and technical requirements for designing and developing the WPOS Application for users.  • Designed database tables according to the technical requirements.  • Supports end users one stop office) and other partner groups (other counties), providing ongoing training and assistance for a particular application, system or process    • Responsible for understanding system functional requirements and business rules, converting them to technical specifications, working with the development team with strong design/architecture to develop the applications.  • Involved in developing the Admin side and Client Side modules using object oriented PHP and Involved in designing and development of GUI using HTML, CSS and XHTML.  • Configuration and development and customization of Joomla content management system according to application requirements. Converting of .docx, .doc and .txt files into pdf formats while uploading files for Jobseekers, Youth and Interns using LibreOffice 4.0.  • Extensively worked on RESTFUL API's in Python.  • Generating reports into .csv files and into excel sheets.  • Automating the whole process of posting jobs, applying to jobs, Resume uploading and approvals of the posted jobs by administrator of the county.  • Designing the database and defining table structures that are required for the application.  • Designing and Developing PHP/ Python Classes, HTML Pages, Controller Classes and extensions for various functional requirements in the application.  • Designing and Deploying the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, Page layouts and Components to suit to the needs of the application.  • Worked on front end validating using JQuery and Java script.  • Create physical tables in SQL Server based on the logical mappings  • Involved in database schema designing and development of tables required for application using MYSQL.  • Responsibilities of implementing and hosting of application on a web server.  • Involved in integrating the application with Joomla and also conversion of SQL databases into MySQL using SQL YOG.  • Converted all MYSQL and SQL database tables into SQL Alchemy ORM structures. (Migrated the databases from one server to another server for development and production servers).  • Worked on generating flow charts for diagrammatic representation to show entity relationship between the tables using Microsoft VISIO.  • Involved in implementation of exporting data to excel sheets, generating pdf reports for the admin.  • Responsibilities of implementing and hosting of application on a web server.  • Oversee the integration of the project, support the Quality Assurance iterations and perform troubleshooting and resolve all design and development issues.  • Worked as Team Lead for a team size of 4 people, assigned work and guided team throughout the development process.  • Identify issues, provide support and recommend solutions at the application level and system level by identifying impact of proposed changes.  • Ensure project is completed in a timely manner.  Environment: PHP, Joomla, CSS, HTML, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, SQL Server 2008, IIS, PHPMyAdmin, LibreOffice 4.0, SQL work bench. PHP Developer North American Power September 2014 to February 2015 Project: Commission & Genealogy  North American Power offers a better energy experience to customers offering competitive electricity and gas rates.  • Responsible for custom enterprise web application with Restful interfaces that handled commissions and the genealogy tree for a large multi-level marketing environment.  • Used MVC architecture PHP5 in an object oriented programming methodology on the Zend and Laravel frameworks.  • Configured Development environment in Linux with the Laravel framework and supporting packages.  • Configured Pixel admin template using Code sleeve for the development of Graphical User Interfaces and designed GUI's.  • Involved in setting up PHP Unit for Unit testing and written Unit tests for all Models that I have worked with.  • Worked on API authentication for accessing C&G from NA Power application.  • Involved in setting up Codeception for Unit tests and as well as for acceptance testing for controllers.  • Worked in Test driven environment and used GIT as source control to check in the code.  • Worked on ETL that is required to migrate data from old database to new database and worked on Migrations in Laravel to create tables and Database analysis and design, based on requirements.  • Worked on Amazon AWS SQS queue services.  • Provided code documentation with PHPDocs  • Custom Programs and reports designed and developed using Linux  • Used the Agile System.  • Bi-Weekly Sprints and Daily stand ups to accomplish various tasks that were given to the team.    Environment: Laravel 4.2, Apache, PHP 5.4, Zend 1.2, MySQL, Html5, CSS, Pixel Admin, JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL Workbench and PHP Storm. PHP Developer County of Westchester, NY January 2013 to August 2014 Westchester Putnam One stop & Westchester Putnam Internships    Project: Westchester Putnam One Stop (WPOS)  Westchester Putnam One Stop (WPOS) is an online website and application that connects people who want jobs to businesses that have them. Its destination is to quickly and easily find great local jobs in Westchester & Putnam Counties. We offer all the resources you need to land your dream job, including a robust platform to search jobs, alerts to keep you up-to-date on the latest opportunities, resources to advance your career, and more. Post your resume and get noticed by top Westchester/Putnam employers today!  As a registered, local business you can use this site to really connect with job-seekers in the Westchester/Putnam career market. Access resumes, post jobs & recruits qualified candidates. Tell us the type of skills you are looking for help us to identify trends that will inform, train and build a skilled workforce for future needs. Gain a competitive edge for your company with advanced recruitment solutions that organize and simplify your Westchester/Putnam area candidate search.    Project: Westchester Putnam Internships  The Westchester Putnam Internship Connex is a dynamic, one-stop portal designed to connect locally enrolled college and university students with local internship opportunities at area employers in Westchester and Putnam Counties. The Internship Connex Web site helps students break into their field of study and prepares them to enter the workforce post-graduation, while providing local employers with immediate support and a long-term recruitment pool of educated and talented workers. We hope this tool serves our students and businesses well.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding the Architecture of the application and gathering the functional and technical requirements for designing and developing the WPOS Application for users.  • Responsible for understanding system functional requirements and business rules, converting them to technical specifications, working with the development team with strong design/architecture to develop the applications.  • Involved in developing the Admin side and Client side modules using object oriented PHP and Involved in designing and development of GUI using HTML, CSS and XHTML.  • Configuration and development and customization of Joomla content management system according to application requirements.  • Worked on Word Press for 3 months as per client requirement.  • Converting of .docx, .doc and .txt files into pdf formats while uploading files for Jobseekers, Youth and Interns using LibreOffice 4.0.  • Generating reports into .csv files and into excel sheets.  • Automating the whole process of posting jobs, applying to jobs, Resume uploading and approvals of the posted jobs by administrator of the county.  • Designing the database and defining table structures that are required for the application.  • Designing and Developing PHP Classes, HTML Pages, Controller Classes and extensions for various functional requirements in the application.  • Designing and Deploying the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, Page layouts and Components to suit to the needs of the application.  • Worked on front end validating using JQuery and Java script.  • Involved in database schema designing and development of tables required for application using MYSQL.  • Responsibilities of implementing and hosting of application on a web server.  • Involved in integrating the application with Joomla and also conversion of SQL databases into MySQL using SQL YOG.  • Involved in implementation of exporting data to excel sheets, generating pdf reports for the admin.  • Responsibilities of implementing and hosting of application on a web server.  • Oversee the integration of the project, support the Quality Assurance iterations and perform troubleshooting and resolve all design and development issues.  • Identify issues, provide support and recommend solutions at the application level and system level by identifying impact of proposed changes.  • Ensure project is completed in a timely manner.    Environment: PHP, Joomla, word press, CSS, HTML, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, SQL Server 2008, IIS, PHPMyAdmin, LibreOffice 4.0, SQL work bench. PHP Developer P&G Associates, NJ April 2012 to December 2012 Time tracking system    Summary:  P&G associate is an Auditing company which has various banks as their clients. Since it is an Auditing company they are maintaining P&G Associates Client Service Coordinator Portal! To maintain all their relations with the Clients. We have created and implemented a secured and one-of-a-kind portal where clients can access useful information and resources regarding their internal audit engagement cycles and services. Within this website you have the tools to provide our clients with up-to-date information and one-stop access to audit issues and reports.  Application Description:  "Time tracking system" is an application used to track the time and activities of specific Auditor that he worked on, for each week ending. It provides an easy way to maintain the time, expenses and approval of uploaded bills for the expenses they specified. Once expenses are submitted then along with the expenses pdf , Admin can download PDF for expenses and uploaded receipts as a zipped file. After Submission of time sheet along with the expenses they will get approved and paid in reference with the different accordions in the application. Time    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing content rich and high performance web based applications Using MODX content management system.  • Involved in Requirement gathering and managed offshore team for the client.  • Involved in the designing of GU Interfaces using HTML, CSS and JavaScript and prototype.  • Intensively worked on OOPs concepts for implementing the actual functionality.  • Worked on AJAX which makes request for the function call that updates the JavaScript DOM and the result is displayed on the interface.  • In MODX the application has 5 steps to follow creation and initialization of the class and then checking for the class whether it exists or not.  • Secondly .inc files which includes a bunch of the php files that are included in the Application.  • Thirdly in Reporter actually designing of the interfaces along with the functionality is included which outputs the result on the interface.  • Worked on uploading of the receipts and files onto the Amazon server where a bucket is created and then in turn downloading them in the form of zip file using OOPs concepts.  • Extensively worked on building the Reports with two options PDF and CSV which allows user to download reports as PDF using htmltopdf and as CSV file using PHP.  • Filtering of data for dynamic report generation using multi select which is tied to specified criteria and the filtered stuff is stored after generating pdf.  • Worked on HICHARTS, a jQuery plugin to represent the stored filtered data of the report in graphically in the form of Pie chart, Bar chart and Line chart.  • Worked on Administration Module which contained several interfaces to insert , delete and edit different fields as an interface for the backend.  • Involved in the Performance Tuning and Query Optimization.  • Created manual tests for several different modules.  • Fixed the bugs in the existing Applications.  • Extensively used Mercurial, used to keep track of the changes and checking the updated files into the server in LINUX.    Environment: PHP 5, Apache, Linux, HTML, Java script, CSS, JQuery, Prototype, AJAX, Eclipse, Customized MVC, MODX(CMS), MYSQL, SQL server, POG objects, Firebug, Mercurial. PHP Developer/QA Akken Inc - Nashua, NH September 2011 to December 2012 Data Director    Summary:  Data director designed to help educators meet the needs of students in grades K-12 and improve their performance, Data Director makes sense of a huge range of data at every level. Data director application will make teacher evaluate a student in most aspects. At the district, system, school and classroom level, educators can analyze and create custom reports on Patterns and needs, Enrichment programs and interventions and areas for further professional development.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirement gathering for the enhancements to the existing application.  • Involved in the designing using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Written the code using Object Oriented concepts in PHP 5.  • Extensively worked on OOPS concepts like Inheritance, Interfaces in PHP.  • Involved in developing the web pages using PHP for allowing the users to create and support various question types such as Multiple choice, Constructed Response and Short answer etc.  • Developed the Datadirector complete project (both front and back end) using PHP5 and other technologies like Zend, Ajax, Jquery etc.  • Worked on xsl formatting for the PDFs generated using XML.  • Extensively worked on building the prebuilt reports using JQuery and Ajax.  • Extensively worked on the Item Creation using JQuery.  • Written the Mappers and Entity's using Zend Framework for the Exam creation.  • Prepared test data for positive and negative test scenarios for functional testing as documented in the test plan.  • Wrote SQL queries to retrieve data from backend.  • Involved in the Performance Tuning and Query Optimization.  • Fixed the bugs in the existing Applications    Environment: PHP 5, SQL server 2008, AJAX, JQuery, Apache, Linux, HTML, XML, Java script, CSS, Eclipse, MVC, ZEND. PHP Developer Juniper Networks, CA January 2012 to March 2012 Junos Dashboards    Summary:  • Juniper Networks has developed and productized some of the industry's most groundbreaking, disruptive innovations across every aspect of networking technology. It includes dedication to developing new, pure play IP solutions based on a unique single architecture, a single operating system, and a single software release train that ensures performance, reliability, and security at the scale that customers demand of their networks - without compromise.  • As a pure play, high-performance networking company, they offer a broad product portfolio that spans routing, switching, security, application acceleration, identity policy and control, and management designed to provide unmatched performance, greater choice, and true flexibility, while reducing overall total cost of ownership. In addition, through strong industry partnerships, Juniper Networks is fostering a broad ecosystem of innovation across the network.  • Application Description:  • Juniper has many number of BO s (Business Objects) like Portfolios, Financials, Junos scorecards, Manufacturing etc. Since, it is networking company; they release products by BU, EBU and Platform in different releases for every quarter by enhancing features. I need to automate for extracting data from each of the BOs databases and create the web interfaces so that the Intranet End users can access the data and analyses the whether the sales of the product has increased for every release they make by filtering data based on different criteria provided. One can download the data that is in reports and in the form of Excel and CSV files. It helps them to estimate the productivity of the JUNOS products.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing content rich and high performance web based dashboards  • Involved in the gathering of data from different business units databases that are in JUNOS.  • Involved in the designing of Junos Dashboards GU Interfaces using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Extensively worked on OOPS concepts like Inheritance, Interfaces in PHP5.  • Extensively worked on Tableau software for graphical representation of data of Junos products different releases and sales into Bar graphs, Pie charts from the database using MYSQL.  • Developed navigation tabs using PHP and embedded with the tableau work sheets for user friendly navigation and published on to the Tableau Server.  • Extensively worked on generating web pages for reports using OOP s concepts and embedding these reports with the generated graphs in Tableau.  • Extensively worked on building the prebuilt reports and exporting the displayed data into Excel using PHP.  • Involved in the automation for updating the data in the database from .CSV files and .txt files using PHP to get the graphs updated.  • Extensively worked on the Item Creation using JQuery.  • Involved in performing database engineering (My SQL).  • Involved in the Performance Tuning and Query Optimization.  • Created manual tests for several different modules.  • Fixed the bugs in the existing Applications.  • Extensively used CVS, enhanced features and modified code is updated in to the CVS with a new subversion number.  Environment: PHP 5, MYSQL, JQuery, Apache, Linux, HTML, Java script, CSS, Eclipse, MVC, Tortoise CVS, Tableau Desktop. Software Engineer Tesync Technology Ltd January 2008 to August 2011 Prepaid Charge Gateway    Summary:  PCG (Prepaid Charge Gateway) is a process that does the balance enquiry from the database for the prepaid numbers from which the messages are sent. If the balance is available PCG sends an ACK to the SMSC to allow the messages to be processed else sends an error response. This balance enquiry will be done with respect to the tariffs available to the numbers. And the respective deduction in amount is done by PCG for Prepaid numbers. If the number is a post-paid number, PCG will directly send an ACK to SMSC and hence the message is processed immediately.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Design and coding for PCG gateway and the integration part of code in SMSC using PHP.  • Separate GUI for Zonal Tariffs, Plan - Under which the number comes etc in PCG using PHP.  • Developed a Web content control module which ensures the users only get access to the content they need.  • Actively involved in Design Workshops, reviews and conference calls with client.  • Analyze the design docs and putting down the test plan(s) for each function.  • Written SQL statements to fetch and store the data using MySql database.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Involved in manual testing of the Web GUI application.  • Preparation of Bug report & Bug Tracking  • Enhanced features and modified code is updated in to the CVS with a new subversion number.    Environment: PHP4, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Perl, C++, UNIX, Sun Solaris, MySQL. Education Master in Computer Applications Sri Venkateswara University Skills CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies HTML, AJAX, XML, CSS, JSON  IDE Edit Plus, Eclipse, PHP Storm  Scripting PHP, JavaScript, Perl scripting, PYTHON  Programming Languages C, C++    Operating Systems Windows 2000, Windows 98/XP, Windows Vista, LINUX (REDHAT 5), Unix, CENTOS 6  Database SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle, MS-Access, Maria DB, SQL Alchemy  Framework MODX(CMS), Zend, Joomla, Word Press, Laravel, PYTHON FLASK RESTFUL API  Protocols TCP, HTTP  Subversion CVS, Mercurial, GIT    Projects Profile  County of Westchester, NY