Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Python Developer Latham & Watkins LLP - Los Angeles, CA July 2016 to April 2017 Developed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Developed enterprise environment server and client backend for enterprise security investigation and monitoring within different software and services.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data with UI development using HTML5,Bootstrap.  • Integrated the java code (API) in JSP pages and responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring security related incident status in ServiceNow Ticketing System.  • Used Angular JS to create custom directives for pagination, search filters and other re-usable sections.  • Developed mailConnector module in JavaScript for reading outlook and extract emails from it. Make Incident on Security Response Software RESILIENT IBM.  • Integrated RESILIENT IBM with CUCKOO SANDBOX to analyze malicious Files and URLs and generate report by customized cuckoo api on RESILIENT SERVER.  • Developed python Action module to Query CARBON BLACK BINARY DATA to get process count for malicious md5 in enterprise network traffic.  • Build python script to receive alerts from DARK-WEB API and notify user’s breached account and password details.  • Worked on RESILIENT IBM - ARC-SIGHT CONNECTOR to generate event alert on network activity using python.  • Developed BIT9 policies and criteria in python to block network traffic for security.  • Configured Server with various enterprise software and stand-alone python scripts.   • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Experienced in pandas python data analysis library for bridging the gap between rapid iterations of ad-hoc analysis and production quality code.   • Tools for reading and writing data between in-memory data structures and different formats: CSV and text files, Microsoft Excel, SQL databases, and the fast HDF5 format.  • Intelligent data alignment and integrated handling of missing data: gain automatic label-based alignment in computations and easily manipulate messy data into an orderly form using pandas.  • Worked on pandas to process time series data on our production servers.  • Build powershell script to sync with Active Directory and retrieve changes.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Worked extensively with ActiveMQ.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation of the application. Python Developer Grocery4me - Fremont, CA April 2015 to July 2016 Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage and built advance UI using Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Used Angular JS to create custom directives for pagination, search filters and other re-usable sections.  • Implemented Custom Data Tables, modal pop-ups and used routing to change the page content based on user interaction.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku .  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and created Angular JS Controller , which isolate scopes perform operations.  • Developed custom directives and services in Angular JS.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO).  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions and create Admin Dashboard using Ajax call and AngularJS.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries. PYTHON DEVELOPER INGRAM MICRO - Los Angeles, CA July 2014 to March 2015 DESCRIPTION: Ingram Micro is an electronics company and information technology distributor.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MongoDB.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Training environment created with Docker.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers and tables.  • AWS data pipeline for Data Extraction , Transformation and Loading from homogeneous or heterogeneous data sources.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server. SOFTWARE ENGINEER/ PYTHON GUIDANCE SOFTWARE INC - Los Angeles, CA September 2013 to June 2014 DESCRIPTION: Guidance Software INC, develops and provides software solutions for digital investigations software and cyber security.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Automation of unit testing using Python.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, iter tools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Applied ETL for better system behavior and getting Best result with Database..  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla and Selenium IDE.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.    Environment: Python, Django, Cassandra, RabbitMQ, Soap UI, Node.JS, REST API. SOFTWARE ENGINEER /TRAINEE LUPIN LTD - GUJARAT, IN June 2012 to May 2013 DESCRIPTION: Lupin Limited is a transnational pharmaceutical company. And the company was created with a vision to fight life-threatening infectious diseases and to manufacture drugs of the highest social priority.    RESPONSBILITIES:  • To create several projects as learning part as well as developed for company system improvement.    E-Attendance System  • To create an attendance system for employees with concept of image processing and Barcode validation.  • Responsible in creating a database and its validations and authorization with MySQL.  • Built queries to extract the employee's details to authorized user.  • Assisted in Desktop Application layout design and functionality in C# and ASP.net framework.    City Solution  • City solution is a web application used by eligible citizens for reporting and requesting local repair or maintenance service within a local government entity.  • It is designed to track the request and the notification of review, progress and completion of the requested service.  • It uses modern technologies, such as html, and semi-structured databases for an integrated system for a local area government and its supporting entities.  Languages: C# with ASP.net and java.    Software Budgeting System  • Software Budgeting System is a web application used by authorized users for calculating and managing the product development life cycle of chemical equipment's manufacturing and generating proposal quotation as requested.  Languages: java , html and Database: MySQL Education Bachelor's in Computer Science & Engineering Gujarat Technological University - Gujarat, IN August 2009 to April 2012 Skills Python (4 years), Javascript (2 years), HTML (2 years), Apache ActiveMQ (1 year), Django (2 years), MongoDB (2 years), MySQL (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  OS Platforms: Windows-98/NT, MAC OSX  Languages: Python 2.7/3.5, Java, Shell Script  Databases: MySQL, SQL Server 2008, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Cassandra  Web Technologies: AJAX, AWS EC Cloud, RESTFul Web Services HTML, XHTML,XML  Versioning Tools: Git, Heroku Git  Web servers: Apache, Tomcat, Nginx  Framework: Django, Flask, web.py  Other Tools: Pycharm IDE, Putty, SQL developer, JIRA