Senior Data/Business Process Analyst, VBA and Python Programmer Senior Data/Business Process Analyst, VBA and <span class="hl">Python</span> Programmer Senior Data/Business Process Analyst, VBA and Python Programmer Edison, NJ Senior Data/Business Analyst, Operations Engineer, VBA/ Python Programmer.    • Develop tools using VBA, SQL and Python for data processing, analytics and reporting.  • Analyze data for data quality, financial performance and business intelligence research.  • Engineer process improvements and automation; execute implementation of various initiatives. Work Experience Senior Data/Business Process Analyst, VBA and Python Programmer BMW of North America, LLC/Bertrandt - Woodcliff Lake, NJ 2017 to 2019 • Developed Python and VBA Excel tools to automate NHTSA mandated reporting.  • Led ISO 9001:2015 implementation for BMW Engineering, achieved certification both years.  • Developed consumer complaint report to monitor for potential recall triggers.  • Translated documents into German; created department PowerPoint presentations. Senior Industry Research Analyst A.M. Best Credit Ratings - Oldwick, NJ 2014 to 2016 • Managed intensive audit of historical impairment data for annual flagship study. Identified 200 additional impairments across 40 years; responsible for the 2015 Life Health report.  • Developed model to determine solvency of P/C companies based on L/H standards.  • Analyzed industry survey data to identify industry/financial trends for quarterly reports.  • Wrote and updated research papers for A.M. Best's magazine and paid research. Senior Business Process Improvement Analyst Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey - Newark, NJ 2012 to 2014 • Analyzed 3rd party supplier debit card program proposal. Validated proposal claims, identified potential contractual issues and mitigated potential losses to Horizon BCBS.  • Analyzed existing chiropractic benefit levels vs. AHA mandate; identified several cost reductions.  • Developed advanced error tracking and reporting to monitor unpaid sales commission volume.  • Used SQL to transform large project data sets; created process flows and control charts. Product Control Analyst, VBA Developer Societe Generale Bank - New York, NY 2009 to 2012 • Optimized SEC mandated derivatives IPV process; corrected issues, created VBA/Excel reporting tool and reduced process time from three days to one hour.  • Created VBA/Excel tool to automate daily flash P&L reporting for CIO/CFO. Tool included COGNOS interface and email automation, reducing daily processing time by 90%.  • Generated monthly risk analysis and daily P&L reports.  • Recoded VBA/Excel report tool to accurately calculate required bank reserves for Valuation Group. Six Sigma Black Belt, Project Manager, AVP - Private Equity Administration BlackRock/Merrill Lynch - Plainsboro, NJ 2005 to 2009 • Created Access database to manage Private Equity Administration functions - capital calls, KYC, investor demographics, and Safe Harbor reporting.  • Analyzed 3rd party portfolio management system to reduce AUM fees. Project saved $600k yearly.  • Modeled merger impact on fund accounting processes in meeting NSCC NAV processing requirements. Model predicted and preempted 50% process failure rate.  • Created asset and trade activity reports for annual mutual fund director board meetings.  • Determined requirements for report migration from ML systems to BlackRock Green Package.  • Executed trade error analysis project for managed accounts team to identify savings opportunities. Process Engineer, Project Manager, Supervisor, Labor Analyst Ford Motor Company - Edison, NJ 1994 to 2004 • Designed and built tooling and machinery, achieving cost savings of $1M in one case.  • Participated in vehicle launches, compatibility testing, and issue resolution.  • Re-engineered processes and operations for 100 workers to support launches or labor reductions.  • Performed assembly worker time studies - settled UAW labor grievances.  • Developed and debugged PLC programs for new and existing equipment.  • Supervised shift of 30 skilled trades and filled in as assembly production supervisor.  • Managed all aspects of projects - planning, budgeting, design, execution, testing, and roll-out.  • Managed purchasing, installation and maintenance/repair of sophisticated assembly line equipment.  • Generated daily labor variance report for plant controller for a period of one year. Education MBA in Finance and Investments Rutgers University, Graduate School of Management Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering Rutgers University - College of Engineering