Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer: finance background Edgewater, NJ Python Developer with extensive experience in Data analysis and Financial modeling. Self-starter. Dedicated to contribute immediately in all aspects of front and back-end of the development life cycle and across the software stack. Bringing strong understanding of algorithms, data structures, and object oriented programming. Building data analysis tools and quantitative platforms to contribute to Financial analysis and Investment strategies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Byte Academy | Fintech - New York, NY September 2015 to Present Responsibilities  - Built the Financial planning application from original idea. Based on user’s risk tolerance and financial goals, the App proposes a Model Investment Portfolio. Also, the application compares User’s current Investment Portfolio to suggested Model Portfolio on a basis of risk and volatility measures.  - Created a Model-View-Controller application that lets the Users view their investment portfolio, trade stocks, trace the amount they have earned or lost, the amount of liquid cash they have available, etc.  - Learned important Data Science and Object-oriented programming concepts together with full stack development utilizing Python, Django and JavaScript as the programming languages. Principal project manager SMP Financial Group March 2014 to August 2015 - Provided financial and budget analyses by gathering and evaluating financial data, performed trend analysis, forecasted investment conditions to support and influence business and investment decision-making. Fundamental Investment Analyst Ardan Wealth Management December 2012 to March 2014 - Created and maintained up-to-date detailed corporate finance Excel models on companies.   - Performed stock valuations utilizing Discounted cash flow analysis.  - Assisted in portfolio management.  - Utilized Python for financial modeling Head of Private Wealth office Russian Agricultural Bank July 2010 to December 2012 - Recommended Structured Derivatives to Ultra High Net Worth clients and advised on implementation.  - Managed private clients assets. Investment strategist, Managing partner Asset management company Conclav Capital July 2007 to December 2009 Responsibilities  - Launched a start-up Hedge Fund with emphasis in Emerging Markets and Frontier markets.  - Based on Top-down analysis performed asset allocation and portfolio management.  - Identified opportunity for a collective investments business in Kazakhstan and founded a new fully licensed Mutual Fund company in Alma-Aty.   - Built a third-party distribution system for Mutual Funds by forging a wholesale agents force total assets. Head of Private Banking Division Russian Development Bank September 2005 to July 2007 - Led the Team of 4 financial advisors, coached them to identify client needs and make recommendations for clients to achieve investment goals and objectives  - Met annual fresh asset target of $120 mill. and revenue target of $1.5 mill. quarterly  - Developed value add programs on investment topics to win business and create new leads Financial Advisor Financial Corporation URALSIB January 2003 to March 2005 - Recommended Investment products, Credit solutions and Banking services  - Developed a book of business - over 50 individual clients with $80 mill. AUM from scratch  - Coordinated activity across multiple investment subsidiaries, effectively managed and prioritized numerous opportunities across a large regional territory Wealth Management Client Relationship Consultant Asset Management Company Quirinus Capital LLC - New York, NY July 2001 to January 2004 - Handled all administrative, fiduciary, multi-generational and tax issues on assigned accounts  - Recommended investment products and services that were suitable for prospects and clients based on their objectives, resources, time horizon, risk profile and preferences  - Coordinated activity across multiple investment subsidiaries Financial Consultant Merrill Lynch - New York, NY December 1999 to June 2001 - Started as an Intern and later joined the team of Vice president managing $500 mill.  - Originated sales leads from prospects and existing clients and capitalized on referrals  - Continually updated existing clients on products and investment solutions Education Master of Science Adelphi University - Garden City, NY 2000 MBA in Management Business School of Lausanne 1998 Bachelor of Arts Moscow State University of International Relations - ?????? 1997 Certificate in Financial Planning Program New York University - New York, NY Certificate in Equity valuation Investment Banking Institute - New York, NY Skills Python, NumPy, Pandas, Django (2 years), Javascript and JQuery (Less than 1 year), Advanced financial analysis skills (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/art-yudin/a8/318/628 Additional Information • Proficient with Python3, NumPy, Pandas, Django  • Experience with Javascript and JQuery  • Knowledge of SQLite3 and PostgreSQL  • Knowledge of Emerging Markets   • High achiever with entrepreneurial spirit  • Advanced financial analysis skills   • Ability to communicate complex derivatives  • Solid understanding of Financial Derivatives