Sr. SAS Programmer/Analyst Sr. SAS Programmer/Analyst Senior SAS Developer East Windsor, NJ Advanced SAS Developer and Statistician with broad industry experience most recently in pharmaceuticals, healthcare insurance, and healthcare CRO's including a solid ten years applied to HEOR studies and personalized medicine. Advanced analytical skills with twenty plus years of recognized contributions to the bottom line. Well-regarded team member and mentor, over twenty years of proficient SAS programming and five years R expereince strong interpersonal, and solid project management skills.    Analytical Software: Base SAS, SAS/GRAPH, SAS/STAT, SAS/ETS, SAS Enterprise Guide, SAS Enterprise Miner, Oracle (Toad, PL/SQL), SQL Server (T-SQL), Queryman (now Teradata SQL Assistant), MS SQL Server, Excel, Tableau, Spotfire, RStudio, Python  Programming Languages/Operating Systems: R, Python3, SQL, C, MVS/TSO/JCL, UNIX, Linux, Windows 10.  Databases: Oracle, SQL Server, Teradata, Netezza, Access.  Statistics: Statistical analytical plans, descriptive and inferential statistics, wide variety of modeling techniques including: multivariate linear regression, logistic regression, and survival analysis. Expertise in comparative effectiveness research. Working knowledge of decision trees, Monte Carlo simulation, linear programming, market mix modeling, and optimal policy selection. Work Experience Sr. SAS Programmer/Analyst Magellan Health Services - Richmond, VA September 2018 to Present SAS developer for Part D. Sr. SAS Programmer/Analyst Magellan Health Services - Richmond, VA September 2018 to Present SAS development for Part D. Senior Manager WNS - WNS Global Services May 2018 to September 2018 • Working with an offshore team for a specialty pharmaceutical.  • Tableau Dashboards, AWS platform with Redshift.  • SQL.  • Liquid Hub Data.  • Symphony Data.  • Veeva Data. Senior Analyst SAS/R/ Python MMM/PMC, subsidiary of Innovacare October 2015 to May 2018 • Work mainly with pharmacy data, both Part D & Medicaid data.  • Integral team member on all major reports; delivered over 3000 reports every 2 weeks, reporting on adherence and other measures delivered with SAS.  • In addition to advanced SAS programming, performed logistic modeling looking at predicting likelihood of disease markers, for risk evaluation using EM 14.1 & EG 7.1  • Did cross-validation using R to build models and verify results.  • Survival Analysis.  • Logistic Regression.  • Propensity matching.  • Acted as a mentor to virtually everyone involved in analytics.  • Developed simple Python programs for Excel deliverables.  • Use of Tableau for Dashboards.  • I also took One week Tableau Training/Bootcamp. Lead Research Analyst Independence Blue Cross - Philadelphia, PA June 2014 to October 2015 • Research position utilizing SAS, Enterprise Guide, Enterprise Miner, and Teradata for claims analysis with the intention to estimate future claims cost from current patient chronic disease, based on Rx claims, medical claims, and lab values.  • Analyzed new Health Exchange population.  • Predictive modeling of RX claims for disease outcomes.  • Developed CHF, Diabetes, COPD, Depression Models.  • Propensity matching.  • Logisitic.  • Survival Models.  • Extensive use of the integrated claims/RX/Med/Lab data Global Trial Operations Informatics Specialist Merck - Rahway, NJ June 2012 to June 2014 • Key deliverables were tables, listings and graphs, maps using Tableau, Spotfire and SAS. Used Spotfire 5.5 and Tableau 8.1 for data visualizations, including maps, overlaying prevalence with trial investigators  • Use of Tableau and JMP to access third party patient longitudinal data.  • Created analytic files of either investigator or site characteristics with SAS 9.3  • Generated adhoc requests analyzed enrollment trends, patterns, and metrics.  • Analyzed retention patterns.  • Enterprise Guide 4.3 as an analytic tool for easy ODS outputs.  • Use of JMP 10 for data mining. R 2.15 used in Monte Carlo simulation work and @RISK.  • Enrollment cycle time analysis and predictive enrollment modeling and simulation completed using R and @RISK.  • Extensive analysis using claims databases such as GE Centricity and Truven for estimation of prevalence for protocol feasibility. Analyst/Programmer Express Scripts - Franklin Lakes, NJ September 2007 to June 2012 • Developed a strong methodology for estimating patient cost savings using generics.  • Adherence calculations with Diabetes medications.  • Long term personalized medicine project.  • Simple decision trees for variable reduction for modeling  • Predictive models using logistic, correlated data and other multivariate methods.  • Managed internal client expectations including clinical staff.  • Led meetings and helped with data insight. SAS Developer/Analyst Pfizer Inc December 2006 to September 2007 • Created a meta-data server/repository environment for data modeling projects.  • Main project was analyzing "spillover" from Medicaid onto third-party plans.  • Created data models with Oracle using Visio.  • Led meetings and developed detailed slide presentations.    EARLIER POSITIONS 1996 - 2007 Analyst Programmer CV Primary Market Research Sanofi-Aventis September 2005 to December 2006 Guardian Life Insurance SAS Developer April 2005 to September 2005 SAS Developer Merck & Co Inc October 2004 to April 2005 SAS Developer Pfizer Inc February 2004 to October 2004 Analyst Programmer ZS Associates Princeton NJ October 2003 to February 2004 Kenilworth SAS Developer Schering-Plough February 2003 to October 2003 SAS Developer Bristol-Myers Squibb June 2001 to February 2003 Medco Database Marketing Analyst Merck February 2001 to June 2001 Paine Webber Database Marketing Analyst June 2000 to February 2001 SAS Developer Bristol-Myers Squibb February 1999 to June 2000 SAS Programmer Dun & Bradstreet Data Modeler November 1998 to February 1999 Visiting Nurse Services Development of Ad April 1998 to November 1998 SAS Programmer Fair Isaac Inc. Credit Card Marketing and Mailing List Processing September 1997 to April 1998 Empire Blue Cross Actuarial Systems SAS Developer January 1996 to September 1997 Education B.A. in Mathematics University of Tennessee March 2015 M.S. Coursework Applied Mathematics University of Tennessee - Knoxville, TN M.S. Coursework Chemical Engineering University of Tennessee - Chattanooga, TN Skills R, Python, SAS, Enterprise Guide, Enterprise Miner, JMP, Teradata, SQL Server