Computer Science Instructor Java & Python Programming, Part-time Computer Science Instructor Java &amp; <span class="hl">Python</span> Programming, Part-time Computer Science Instructor Java & Python Programming, Part-time - CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVE DOMINGUEZ HILLS Hawthorne, CA In addition to teaching computer programming related courses part-time, I have more than 20 years of experience in software quality assurance, reliability, performance and testing. I am very knowledgeable in all phases of application software and product life cycle, including requirement gathering, development, design, debug, test, and documentation. All rounded understanding of waterfall, iterative, and agile methodologies. Demonstrate exceptional problem-solving and strategic thinking with excellent communication and project management skills. I work very well within a team or independently, I know how to lead teams and coordinate with other stakeholders to accomplish the desired result. I communicate complex concepts in a very clear and precise manner to professionals in business environment or to students in my class. Work Experience Computer Science Instructor Java & Python Programming, Part-time CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVE DOMINGUEZ HILLS August 2017 to Present Lecture and hands on lab session, responsible for teaching Java, preparing lessons, exercises, tests for my students  Lecture and hands on exercises, responsible for teaching software design concepts with pseudocode and flowcharts using Python, preparing lessons, exercises, tests for my students Computer Science Instructor Python Programming, Part-time – WEST LOS ANGELES COLLEGE WEST LOS ANGELES COLLEGE - Culver City, CA August 2017 to Present Lecture and hands on lab session, responsible for teaching Python, preparing lessons, exercises, tests for my students  Lecture and hands on lab session, responsible for teaching computer concepts on Windows 10 using office 2016, preparing lessons, exercises, tests for my students Senior Engineer, Software Quality Assurance Lead WAL-MART STORES, INC - Bentonville, AR May 2011 to May 2016 Lead multiple teams of near-shore and offshore test resources, coordinate testing schedules, ensure business requirement documents communicate the desired business processes and concepts, generate test cases and verify coverage per requirement list, and conduct defect analysis and resolution. Provide test coverage matrix and present test strategy, test plan, and test summary reports.    • Facilitate various meetings and communicate with project and product managers, business analysts, software developers, and testers.  • Write SQL queries to verify accuracy of data displayed in various areas of applications to be tested.  • Manage on-site and off-shore QA resources on multiple projects.  • Responsible for test plans, test data, test coverage, test-script automation and performance testing results on multiple projects. Computer Professor / Computer Applications and HTML, Part-time WAL-MART STORES, INC - Springdale, AR January 2012 to June 2012 Manager, Quality Assurance APOLLO ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS - Long Beach, CA April 2010 to May 2011 Distribute assignments and prioritize and adjust workload. Create test plans and test cases, test data, and create automation scripts, using NeoLoad. Debug issues reproduce customer-reported problems. Maintain and report bugs schedule and planned releases. Ensure code gets tested to meet requirements before releasing to customer, deploy code, and coordinated on all environments. Manager, Quality Assurance XAP CORPORATION - Culver City, CA February 2007 to October 2009 Oversee QA team of nine quality assurance analysts, distributing assignments, prioritizing, and adjusting workload. Create test plans and test cases, attend planning and document review meetings, estimate completion dates, and plan test schedules. Work closely with IT, engineering team, and program managers. Write training manual, train new hires, and wrote and maintain automated scripts, using Badboy and JMeter. Perform both black and white box testing, verify log files and run-time error messages. Computer Professor / Introduction to Computers, Part-time XAP CORPORATION - Los Angeles, CA January 2008 to June 2008 Computer Professor / Web Design, Part-time Venice, CA January 2007 to June 2007 Senior Software Developer DATRIK CORP - Los Angeles, CA January 2006 to February 2007 Gather requirements and design, implement, and test web-based front-end. Build custom queries based on user specified input from available list of criteria, enabling customers to access huge data warehouse. Write PHP scripts to accept user criteria as input, query MySQL databases to aggregate records for sale based on the number of records matching customer-specified criteria. SQA Specialist SYMANTEC CORP - Santa Monica, CA 2004 to 2005 Design test scenarios, test, verify, and debug fixes for various features of security information manager SIM, perform build acceptance test every release thoroughly. I was responsible for functional specification documents' accuracy and verification. Investigate, document, and log software issues encountered during testing. Recommend GUI usability improvements and identify appearance-related cosmetic issues, test back-end DB2 tables and Windows-based user security software with LDAP back-end. Software Tool Developer XEROX CORP - El Segundo, CA 2000 to 2003 Develop server-oriented software application tools, using JSP, query Oracle databases, resulting in implementation of numerous flexible, web-based reports that significantly help product managers and software developers track progress vs. schedules to calculate ratio of defect fixes. Gather requirements from customers and prepare high-level design documents and detailed design documents. Staff Software Engineer 1997 to 2000 Develop software in Windows NT and UNIX/Linux platforms. Integrate code and work throughout the life cycle of printer controller software for various high-end Xerox printers. Create scripts, using SilkTest automation tool from Segue Software Incorporated. Software Verification Test Lead 1995 to 1997 Plan and coordinate test activities, write functional test procedures, and resolve software problems and team issues. Develop software test strategy/test plans and direct test execution, automation of test software, conduct root cause test failure analysis for DocuSP (Solaris UNIX-based 180 PPM printer controllers). Test high-performance image printer (HPIP) software for diverse platforms, such as HP-UX and Windows NT. Identify compatibility problems and interface with development engineering team to resolve issues. Provide quality assurance support in integration and system tests essential to release of product line. Los Angeles, California, Software and Hardware Consultant INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE OF LOS ANGELES - Los Angeles, CA 1993 to 1995 Analyze, recommend, and implement automated database solutions. Purchase replacement systems and provide on-site repair services. Maintain and upgrade existing systems and applications on a regular basis. Programmer, Database/Network Administrator CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY - Long Beach, CA 1991 to 1995 concurrent). Develop custom applications and databases, using Clipper, FoxPro, and dBaseIII. Train operators on how to use data entry application to create, edit, and delete records. Create training manual for users and significantly enhance operators' ability to train new hires. Education Masters of Science in Computer Science California State University Long Beach 1996 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science California State University Long Beach 1993 Skills UNIX (5 years), LINUX (3 years), SOLARIS (2 years), MYSQL (1 year), .NET (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kaleab-gorfu-00b49a14 Additional Information OPERATING SYSTEMS  Windows OS and Windows Server various versions, UNIX, Solaris, Linux, NextStep    APPLICATIONS  Eclipse, Mysql Workbench, Photo Shop, Dream weaver, Flash MX, Microsoft Office, Studio, Visual Studio, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe