Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Intronet - Philadelphia, PA 2015 to 2016 I designed and built out the backend API for a new Mobile App (iOS & Android), also called Intronet. Since this was being designed from the ground up, I chose Python3, Flask, Postgresql (using both relational and nosql features), Redis, Celery for the API, along with Ansible, CircleCI, ZenHub, Slack for the (agile) dev environment.  ? The API is a fully secure (OAuth2) JSON RESTful endpoint by which the mobile app would send and receive all data.  ? The backend is fully integrated with several external portals including Outlook, Gmail and LinkedIn.  ? My contract goes until the end of May. Senior Software Engineer Adboom Group - St. Thomas, VI 2014 to 2015 I was hired to make their flagship product, Midigator, a viable product by automating the collection and organization of chargeback data compiled from several dozen processor websites. The collected records had to then be 'matched' to records coming from LimeLight and other CRMs. The record matching was done with sophisticated algorithms as there are no 'common keys' tying the records together.  ? Technologies I used: Python, Django, Splinter, Celery, Redis, MySQL, MongoDB  ? The company owners asked me to put together a list of recommendations for 'fixing' their IT department, and as a result of that rather extensive document, promoted me to CTO. As CTO, I built a successful IT department. Now I'm ready to get back to coding full time. Senior Software Engineer Glacial Energy - St. Thomas, VI 2012 to 2013 Migrate company's employee facing legacy software system to the Zend framework.  ? Update logic to conform to modern coding standards and practices, including:  ? OOP, MVC, PHP, Zend, jQuery, JavaScript, MySQL, AJAX Manager Ricoh Innovations, Inc 2011 to 2012 Managed the device software team and reported to the Engineering VP  ? Identified industry best technologies best suited to our tablet platform, and developed implementation roadmap.  ? Organized code reviews, documented procedures, implemented wide-scale unit testing, and motivated team members. Consultant - Sync Architect Ricoh Innovations, Inc - San Jose, CA 2010 to 2012 until Aug. 2012)  ? Designed 'next generation' document sync architecture  ? Identified and vetted next-gen software solutions for both the tablet and server aimed at increasing performance, addressing security, and eliminating single points of failure  ? Coded up proof-of-concept in ZMQ/Mongrel2, Python, MySQL  ? Wrote load tests to benchmark and graph performance numbers (using R) Python Developer Ricoh Innovations, Inc 2011 to 2011 Designed and wrote eQuill tablet provisioning software to provision tablets.  ? Designed and wrote 'over-the-air' tablet software update mechanism. This included writing a mechanism to automatically distribute software updates from the build server to the several production servers. PHP Developer Ricoh Innovations, Inc 2010 to 2010 Designed and built PHP (w/ Zend) back-end document management system for Ricoh's eQuill tablet device.  ? Designed MySQL DB schema for much of the application.  ? Tech Summary: PHP, Zend, MySQL, jQuery, bash scripts Program Architect Cylon Corp - Scottsdale, AZ 2009 to 2009 Designed and deployed a new server architecture to accommodate a fast growing database and overworked registration server.  ? Designed a migration plan to move the existing databases and applications to the new architecture. There was no "down time."  ? Designed and coded a custom Jira-like ticketing system, as well as other SaaS apps  ? Designed and implemented the release cycle  ? Designed and Developed several websites  ? Tech Summary: PHP, jQuery, AJAX, SOAP, MySQL, Linux bash scripts Software Engineer NeuStar, Inc - Tempe, AZ 2007 to 2008 Developed a new module for our core product (UltraDNS) for General Electric.  ? Mentored engineers, and coordinated activities of the development team.  ? Eliminated antiquated methods, and restructured how code reviews were done.  ? Introduced better suited technologies into existing software.  ? Tech Summary: PHP, Dojo, AJAX, Python, Oracle DB PL/SQL Chief Technical Officer Mohre Communications, LLC - Westlake Village, CA 1999 to 2008 Designed a patented method for secure, on-line payment transactions.  ? Helped create all of the business methodologies to be implemented.  ? Secured relationships with credit card companies and transaction processors.  ? Oversaw website and product development.  ? Tech Summary: PHP, Java Swing, C++, Objective-C, C#, MSSQL Owner Zuma Innovations, Inc - Westlake Village, CA 1997 to 2005 Responsibilities: Developed a complete client/server software solution to enhance vehicle testing (fighter jets) for the Aerospace Industry. Used relational database technology to store engineering data and write embedded DB programs (Transact SQL, PL/SQL, PowerBuilder, C++) to generate relevant data used for numerous applications including: generating cables, vehicle testing, troubleshooting circuitry faults, etc. (The software is currently in use at numerous manufacturing facilities and is used in the F-18 E/F, F-15, T-38, C-17, E2-C, B-2 and other programs.) Software Architect Consultant/Mobile C Programmer Zuma Innovations, Inc - Newport Beach, CA 2001 to 2001 Responsibilities: Design 3 and 4 tier mobile wireless database architecture for handheld drug prescription writing device. Design DB architecture and synchronization schema so that handheld DB sends required data over wireless network to medical group DB. Have medical group DB synchronize to ReadyScript central DB. Implement automatic backup and disaster recovery mechanisms for database. Software Consultant/Programmer/DBA Intel Corp - Folsom, CA 1995 to 1997 Responsibilities: Lead programming effort to make available to thousands of Intel employees the data and functionality of SAP's ERP application. Design and maintain database architecture that will interact with Oracle SAP databases. (Our team of developers, of which I was the lead while I was there, developed an application that was used while Intel transitioned to SAP; however, because of the clever design and implementation of our application, "ShowBIZ, " it became the preferred application as it proved to have extended functionality and a superior user interface to SAP's. Intel considered "Shrink Wrapping" ShowBiz and marketing it as an alternative to SAP.) Software Consultant/Programmer/DBA National Semiconductor - Santa Clara, CA 1995 to 1995 Responsibilities: Gather and define business requirements, design and build a PowerBuilder application to reflect the company's "Delivery Performance." Design the Sybase System 10 database and write UNIX scripts to copy the delivery performance data from the mainframe files to the new database and automatically e-mail listed personnel of function error or completion. Software Consultant/Programmer/DBA Electronic Data Systems - Plano, TX 1994 to 1995 Responsibilities: Develop and document a complete Foundation Class Library for PowerBuilder applications. Train COBOL programmers object oriented programming techniques and how to use and program in PowerBuilder. Help programmers with development of the EDS Utilities Application "AcuPlant." Software Consultant/Programmer/DBA Hughes Aerospace - Tucson, AZ 1993 to 1994 Responsibilities: Lead a design and programming effort for a centralized Information Systems Resource Management System to handle all "adds, moves and changes" of company equipment and personnel. Print out and route all necessary tickets to perform the necessary tasks. Convert and import existing data into a new Sybase database. (This program was written to handle Hughes' significant restructuring and is still being used as an everyday tool whenever an employee or device changes its location. When Raytheon bought this Hughes division, Raytheon adopted the software for use in their organization.) Education Industrial Design & Architecture University of California - Los Angeles, CA Links http://github.com/hirshol Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: seaman/midshipman Patents Method and apparatus to provide secure purchase transactions over a computer network (#US6839692) https://www.google.com/patents/US6839692