Acting Principal Pending Capitol Infusion Acting Principal Pending Capitol Infusion Acting Principal Pending Capitol Infusion - Multiple C-MAD GROUP INC Mountain View, CA Work Experience Acting Principal Pending Capitol Infusion Multiple C-MAD GROUP INC - San Diego, CA May 2016 to Present Neptune in San Diego, CA: SaaS delivery on LinkedIn platform for Educational Group  Admin & Budget Agency, State of Nevada, NV: on an as needed capacity on matters pertaining to security matters of policy and execution that were in included as part of the former work within the RFP, as well as confidential meetings with the CIO and Deputy CIO related to matters NSA and DHS.  Author House, Bloomington, IN: writing Autobiography for publication Python Developer Multiple C-MAD GROUP INC June 2015 to Present Python Developer Chief Enterprise Architect (CEA) 2 = Healthcare March 2011 to Present VA, Various proposals including CHASE & DoD USAF A. Dore President & Principal Consultant 2 = Healthcare 1995 to Present 3 = IT Product Integration  Partnerships, , C-MAD Group Inc., Since 1995, A. Dore President & Principal Consultant Chief Enterprise Architect Delegata - Riyadh, SA April 2015 to June 2015 State Department Advised Against Travel to KSA  Project: Develop comprehensive executable enterprise architecture practice solution to facilitate the boosting of the KSA national employment by providing Human Capital Management (HCM) business analysis and government secure cloud-ready technology solutions under the KSA national security mandate.  Role: CIO, PM; Direct Report: Chief Architect TeKamol, Saudi Client; Indirect Reports: Delegata PM, various Architects, SMEs, QA and Marketing.    Responsibilities:  • Define standards for a Microsoft cloud platform using big-data technology serving the needs and aspirations of the KSA labor market and social collaborations. Senior Technical Architect State of Nebraska DHHS - Lincoln, CA March 2015 to March 2015 Project: Author an impact report to bring DHHS into legislative compliance for CRM systems across the State.  Role: PM, Architect and Expert Technical Author; Direct Report: CIO of Applications; Indirect Reports: DHHS Administration, IT, Business and Vendors.    Responsibilities:  • Conduct detailed security, legislative compliance, and technical impact analysis. and solution planning for a significant proposed change to a complex, large-scale, statewide ERP CRM document imaging system by aligning the 2011 legislative business analysis report findings and agreed upon process reengineering enterprise cloud-ready technology solutions; Microsoft cloud platform. Enterprise Architect and Technical Project Manager - Legacy Modernization State of Nevada Department of Motor Vehicles - Carson City, NV December 2014 to February 2015 Carson City, NV Dec 2014 to Feb 2015  Enterprise Architect and Technical Project Manager - Legacy Modernization  Project: Author a market ready RFP with justification to obtain funding from the Legislature.  Role: PM, Architect and Technical Author; Direct Report: Director and Deputy Director of Agency; Indirect Reports: Director of Security, State CIO, DMV Administration, IT, Business and Public Safety.    Responsibilities:  • Produced successful Request for Proposal (RFP) value $110 million that passed the Nevada Legislature in May 2015. Allows the Nevada DMV to select and award a contract to a vendor for the development and implementation of the DMV system modernization, by providing the 2014 reconstituted business analysis report and sanctioned technology solutions, including but not limited to the following areas of Enterprise Architecture:  - Segmentation and Decoupled Architecture;  - SOA Automation and Consolidation of Core Manual, Semi-Automated Services to Fully Auto;  - MDM Ecosystem;  - Cloud-Ready & Big-Data Ready;  - Self-Help Serviceable Knowledge Inter-Change  - Maintaining Compliance, Interfacing with Government Agencies, - Zero Tolerant Countermeasures for Threats & Vulnerabilities, Cryptography, Increased Network Security, Vault Technology;  - Secure Data APIs and Encryption Methods  - Social Architecture, Collaborations, and Privacy Policies.  - Integrating Social Networking Features  - Sustainability  - Focus on process reengineering  • Redefined the Enterprise Architecture from current state legacy perspective to a security and business based Master-Data (MDM) driven SOA architecture.  • Defined a Zero-Tolerance security master model and Security Reference Architecture model; enforcing adherence to Common Criteria 2.1. Enterprise Architect APR for GE/ IGATE NBCUniversal - Universal City, CA August 2014 to October 2014 Phase I: Inventory, Phase II & III slated for 2015  Project: Conceptualize a new coherent centralized platform to eliminate disparate mass redundancy in NBCU, Comcast and GE business applications.  Role: West Coast Lead, PM and EA; Direct Report: CIO, Chief Architect NY; Indirect Report: East Coast Lead, Project Manager, All West Coast Directors, IGATE management.    PM Responsibilities:  • Delivered an executable Application Portfolio Rationalization (APR) process and current state and future state roadmaps for all NBCU Business verticals. Created a horizontal Meta-MetaModel Enterprise Taxonomy for the entire NBC organization at the CIO level.    Architect Responsibilities:  • Realigned ERP layer to remove massive redundancies throughout organization combining CRM, SRM, SCM, PLM and DMS. Leveraged the APR to instigate a collaborative architecture, as well as exploring social collaborations, mobile and cloud technologies based on process reengineering and Media KPIs and capabilities by providing an evolved and more dynamic business analysis model and security technology solutions removing redundancy, legacy and version imbalances.    Tools: Sparx EA, developing TOGAF metamodels, ITIL mapping and ARP system overview Whitehouse staff Federal Government and the State of California October 2013 to March 2014 member during ObamaCare launch crisis to join remediation team.  Project: Create a reusable architecture foundation serving the Federal Government and the State of California.  Selected for Senior Data Architect for the Department of Health Care Services (DHCS), to institute the ObamaCare Health Benefits Exchange Project (HBE) for the Information Technology Services Division (ITSD), Enterprise Architecture Program (EAP) for the State of California, awarded bid contract based on submission to the Request for Offer (RFO) # HBE-DA-2011-01  Role: Enterprise Architect, PM; Direct Report: California Legislature, CIO, OSI, HHS and DHHS; Indirect Report: Legislative Representatives, ACA Board, OSHPOD, SMEs, and Business Analysts.    PM Responsibilities:  • Created strategy initiatives for public board hearings to be placed for vote and legislative approval with the OSI.    Architect Responsibilities:  • Constructed HBE Business Reference Model including Business Areas, Business Operations, Functional Areas and Functional Requirements.  • Developed EA governance and standards model for FEA, HIT, Open Source SCA, SOA Open Group, OASIS Reference Architecture for SOA, OMG SoaML, MITA, & NIEM Data Core compliance.    Tools: Sparx, Developed initial ObamaCare Use Case strategy and architectural models Lead Enterprise Architect Honda (HNAS) - Torrance, CA September 2013 to January 2014 Project: Replace 80% of major IT systems with new technology and overall system architecture, Legacy defined as IBM Mainframes, IBM AS400, IBM AIX and MS NT in North America (Canada, US & Mexico) and Japan. The project was funded and driven from Honda Japan; estimated future modernization project value $2.5 billion to implement, Japan estimate 50 billion Yen.  Role: Global Enterprise Architect, PM; Direct Report: CIO Japan and NA, Chief Architect Japan, Enterprise Architect NA; Indirect Report: NTT Data, IT Japan, Mexico, Brazil and North America, Application Directors, Manufacturing Leads, SMEs, and Senior Management Japan.    PM Responsibilities:  • Directed the HNAS Legacy Modernization Program as joint Project Lead and Enterprise Architect.  • Negotiated $0.5 million SOW to contract NTT Data to execute Phase I of legacy Modernization.  • Defined the Application Lifecycle Management (ALM) to encompass transitional architecture and business continuity.  • Refined Clarity ITIL asset management data and derived SAM data for all Honda Application Groups  • Instilled Zachman, TOGAF and Agile SDLC practices into Global Honda Enterprise Architecture (GHEA) standards.    Architect Responsibilities:  • Designed Application Portfolio Rationalization (ARP) Services Framework program for North America and Japan global consolidation.  • Designed Honda APR value-chain enrichment dashboard; business and technical risk including plugging competitor espionage vulnerabilities, business context, capabilities, including ROI, TCO.  • Created solutions to standardize Japanese Kanji data definitions in an international Unicode library  • Realigned ERP layer to enable global EA strategy to flourish between regions.  • Developed Buy or Build recommendations for Application Rationalization Portfolio (ARP) framework.    Tools: Sparx, developed current state and future state architecture for ARP Lead Technical Architect / Data Czar Bank of America - Concord, CA July 2012 to April 2013 Sr. Vice President level)  Project: Global Resiliency Improvement Program (GRIP) for 100 major system applications.  Role: Enterprise Architect, PM; Direct Report: Chief Administrative Architect and Director of Test Engineering; Indirect Report: Four Executive Owners, all Solution, Information, Data and Security Architects, DBAs, PMs, and SMEs.    PM Responsibilities:  • Defined LOE for proposed $8 billion dollar contract Accenture and IBM to execute Phase I of Global Resiliency Improvement Program (GRIP)  • Evaluated ability of all senior Architects to meet Federal CAMELS IT rating system requirements [see Legend below].  • Developed multi-point empirical failure data model for the top 6 Six Sigma business processes for 100 significant systems.  • Refined Clarity ITIL asset management data and derived SAM data for BOA Small Business vertical.    Architect Responsibilities:  • Led and gave significant direction, collaborating with executive stakeholders, architects, and vendor technologists to evolve architecture deliverables.    • Provided accountable, strategic technical direction and system architecture recommendations as lead consultant architect to improve cryptography security and resilience to cyber-attacks and internal malicious conduct including the better enforcing of Anti-Money-Laundering techniques and countermeasures.  • Defined E2E architecture for MQ/ODS supported by decoupled MDM Ecosystem.  • Conceptualized conversion to real-time banking delivering 5-year architectural interim and target SOA.  • Reconstituted entire logical and real-time architecture for all Intraday events, alerts, interventions and messages, segmenting Intraday from batch process.    Tools: Sparx, developed entire architecture in MQ sequence diagrams, 101 Major systems + 8,000 apps Senior Data Enterprise Architect Randstad Technologies April 2012 to May 2012 due to lack of written assurances by Legislature to enforce NEIM compliance; Consultant Enterprise Architect Genomic Health - Redwood City, CA October 2011 to December 2011 Project: Conceptualize a new baseline for multidimensional cloud architecture and improve product creation, delivery and diversity.  Role: Enterprise Architect, PM; Direct Report: Company Founder and Enterprise Security Architect; Indirect Report: Directors, CIO, Divisional Managers; Hardware, Networking, Applications and Mobile and Cloud.    PM Responsibilities:  • Authored Meta-Meta Model program to support UML, TOGAF and Zachman methodologies to provide a simple structure to organize and publish existing information to enhance the quality and consistency, improving the level and speed of adoption of information and the overall effectiveness and efficiency of IT investments and programs on cross-discipline initiatives.    Architect Responsibilities:  • Led and mentored Genomic EA to adopt a federated interdisciplinary architectural framework to provide clear and consistent information to describe corporate-wide business driven IT security policy objectives and cross-discipline initiatives including cloud-ready solution technology principles, standards, practices, and roadmaps aligned with business objectives and capabilities.    Tools: Developed Java/J2EE architecture, cloud architecture and Massive DNA mapping sequence Python Developer State of California, OSI, DHCS, ITSD, EAP - Sacramento, CA April 2011 to August 2011 SENIOR DATABASE ANALYST 2 = Healthcare - Fremont, CA October 2010 to May 2011 Prepared (RFO) # RFO FI$Cal 016-10 & # HBE-BT-2011-03 Consultant Enterprise Architect Alcatel-Lucent - Daly City, CA July 2010 to January 2011 Project: Pave the way for the appointment of a new CIO.  Role: Enterprise Architect, PM; Direct Report: Incoming CIO, Director of Business Architecture Genesis, Chief Architects Strasbourg; Indirect Report: Top Tier Vendors, Architectural Verticals, HP Contract Backplane, Business Verticals.    PM Responsibilities:  • Support planning and goals; tailor and implement all ALU enterprise business architecture operations, including SDLC, Zachman, TOGAF artifacts.    Architect Responsibilities:  • Provided Workbooks for EA development purposes: Unified Sustainability Model, Operational Model, SOA Framework Model, SAP Capability Cases, EA launch roadmap, and Governance and Security Operational Model. Evaluate BPMN integration.    Tools: Sparx, developed architectural patterns to unify Business and System architecture, Zachman Model Senior Data Enterprise Architect MetaVista 2011 to 2011 Engagement] Consultant Lead Architect MetaVista Consulting - Sacramento, CA May 2010 to June 2010 RFP Preparation: Qualified resource for Prison Healthcare Services IT division for the State of California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation; prepared Request for Offer (RFO) for Information technology consulting services to design and implement an enterprise data warehouse / BI services RFO #10-014-ITS, RFO withdrawn Consultant Technical Architect BOOZ & CO - Indianapolis, IN December 2009 to January 2010 Project: Integrate cohesive governance plan for all BlueShield IT system architectures newly merged and acquired in a new business hub.  Role: Enterprise Architect, PM; Direct Report: Chief Architects Anthem; Indirect Report: Business Verticals and SMEs.    PM Responsibilities:  • Authored RFP supporting WellPoint B2B enterprise architecture.  • Process reengineered multi-dimensional SDLC    Architect Responsibilities:  • Review and strategize platform consolidation opportunities for combining potential business and integration services.  • Discovery Enterprise Process Architecture Domain level blueprints and integration roadmap  • Develop Enterprise Architecture Governance Package Definition    Tools: Sparx, created SOA architecture and TOGAF Operational Model Enterprise Architect Follow on Consulting January 2009 to October 2009 2 Contract Offers Budgets not Approved Jan 2009 - Oct 2009  Project: Replace manual portfolio input process, automate calculated unit (CU) calibration, and integrate catastrophic event data and design integrated pricing solution by providing business analysis and technology solutions.  Role: Enterprise Architect, PM; Direct Report: Underwriters; Indirect Report: Java Group, Mathematicians and third party consultants    PM Responsibilities:  • Audited lead engineering leadership and authored balanced scorecard appraisal report  • Developed fundamentals for tool-driven Agile PMO practices, SCRUM & Sprint managed    Architect Responsibilities:  • Developed fundamental Architecture for next gen products using Sparx EA as real MDA example  • Developed fundamental logical and conceptual B2B, B2C, B2E mobile architectural visionary document based on SOA and WCF API in MS .NET SENIOR DATABASE ANALYST 2 = Healthcare February 2009 to September 2009 VA, NSA Mobil-Netsphere Architecture Model  Other, , Clients; Contracts & FT, Roles Consultant Chief Architect/Agile Practices Project Manager CISCO SYSTEMS - San Jose, CA December 2007 to December 2008 Project: Formulate new B2B, B2C, B2E mobile architectural footprint for high-speed distribution of interactive streaming media products on a conceptual TelePresence Net to replace current Internet with high-speed MediaNet.  Role: Enterprise Architect, PM; Direct Report: Director of CEO strategy projects; Indirect Report: Architectural Steering Committee, Chief Engineers TelePresence, Programmers and Vendors.    PM Responsibilities:  • Managed all third party vendor contracts for quality and product performance  • Mentored Agile implementation techniques to on and offshore development teams    Architect Responsibilities:  • Authored a blend of SOA/Hybrid-Cloud (SaaS) solution architectures  • Redefined, process reengineered and deconstructed JEE Spring framework for Hybrid Cloud SOA  • Developed conceptual Vault Security Escrow Management Framework  • Developed user experience (UX) capability case models to define stakeholder product  • Adapted business capabilities into a sustainable enterprise technology roadmap    Tools: developed entire TelePresence Cloud and Middleware models, XML and Java Consultant Agile Architect SERVPATH - San Francisco, CA December 2007 to March 2008 Project: Streamline organization, reevaluate principal roles, redesign product development process, improve on/offshore model, implement Agile methods into current project management  Role: Enterprise Agile Architect, PM; Direct Report: Owner, Directors, COO; Indirect Report: evaluation of Entire Staff    PM Responsibilities:  • Audited Engineering leadership and authored balanced scorecard appraisal report  • Developed tailored organizational regenerative initiative program to implement Agility through SCRUM and Sprints. Consultant Principal Solutions Architect/Agile PMO SWISS RE - Zurich, CH July 2007 to December 2007 Consultant Sr. System Architect/SDLC Project Manager DELTA DENTAL - San Francisco, CA January 2007 to June 2007 Project: Build fault tolerant hyper-performing Rules Agent, collaborating with high performance J2EE Bus with core BI extension for B2B, B2G Coding Audit, Fraud Detection applications to effect data changes, deletions and additions to core EDS dental claims, on MS .NET/Citrix Portal  Role: Enterprise Architect, PM; Direct Report: Chief CICS Architect; Indirect Report: Directors, Rules Agent Development Group, All External Clients, EDS    PM Responsibilities  • Managed JAD sessions to develop business requirements for extending business rule functionality of EDS core application  • Managed SME sessions to develop GUI client interface in the functional areas of benefit audit, membership, billing, eligibility and collections    Architect Responsibilities:  • Created SDLC architectural vision document, authored use cases, functional requirements, functional specifications and detail design documents  • Created multi dimensional "Rosetta Stone" matrix; defining claims' coding audit business rules BI metadata  • Provided integrated business analysis with EDS Core App and open source technology solutions; functional with EDS or CICS.    Tools: Sparx, designed, developed and tested entire rules agent component in message flow, sequence diagrams    Over 20 years CASE Tool Skills  • Analyzing, designing, configuring, static/dynamic software architecture, frameworks, MCV, user experience, GUI, wire-frames, systems and hardware.  • Rational Rose Enterprise suite, 9 plus years using RequisitPro, ClearCase, ClearQuest, 8 years to present using Sparx EA.  • TogetherJ, Erwin Data Modeling, Gane & Sarson ER Modeling tool, MAGIC RAD developer, Oracle2000 Developer, SQL Server diagrams (schemas), Visual Studio VB, Eclipse IDE for J2EE, and other plug ins.  • MS Project, Visio, Power Point; expert in building smart Excel spreadsheets. Consultant Project Manager 2 = Healthcare - San Mateo, CA October 2006 to December 2006 for $500 Million Dollar Bond Consultant Architect/Project Director 2 = Healthcare - San Francisco, CA September 2006 to October 2006 MS .NET architecture Consultant Solutions Architect 2 = Healthcare - Oakland, CA January 2006 to March 2006 Medicare Part D MS .NET (FT) Sr. Director, On-Demand Prototyping - Sparx Tool 2 = Healthcare - Emeryville, CA February 2004 to October 2005 CIO Offshore 2 = Healthcare - San Francisco, CA November 2003 to January 2004 Onshore Offering LUXOFT, RU Python Developer 2 = Healthcare - Washington July 2003 to September 2003 Security Audit of Gov of Mozambique's Finance Ministry Mentor, Authored RUP/UML Training Manual 2 = Healthcare - Olympia, WA August 2002 to November 2002 Consultant Visionary Architect 2 = Healthcare - Philadelphia, PA June 2001 to April 2002 Next-Gen SOARIAN Consultant Architect 2 = Healthcare - Seattle, WA January 2000 to December 2000 JSF X-32 Java Breakthrough Group Consultant Planning Architect 2 = Healthcare - Hercules, CA April 1999 to May 1999 BI & EDW Consultant Architect 2 = Healthcare - Pleasanton, CA January 1998 to April 1999 AMDOC Telligence Billing Consultant PMO, Architecture Lead 2 = Healthcare February 1998 to April 1998 Bonanza Apps 1, Boeing-MCD, MTA, EAFB, CA, Sr. Principal Eng of Technology 2 = Healthcare September 1996 to February 1998 Built FTIMS2000 (TM) Consultant Mexico and Brazilian Project Manager, BA & SA 2 = Healthcare - El Segundo, CA October 1995 to March 1996 Marine Group Comptroller Navatek (ONR) - Honolulu, HI October 1994 to October 1995 Education Banking Industry Clearances The City of London Freemen's School 2012 NIST 2012 MS in Orientation Model Driven Architecture University of Washington - Seattle, WA 2000 to 2001 Business Administration and Economics University of Surrey NESCOT 1969 business MIT Skills ARCHITECTURE (5 years), SECURITY (4 years), SOA (3 years), BUDGET (1 year), GOVERNANCE (1 year) Military Service Branch: United States National Guard Rank: third Additional Information Specialties:  • 15+ years delivering transitional practices and change strategies executing multi-billion dollar legacy buy or build modernization plans, current and future state architecture, redesigned taxonomies and KPI enhancements, additionally building SLA and SLO libraries.  • 20+ years delivering mature corporate strategies incorporating enterprise-wide, multi-site, multivendor technology software/hardware project experience.  • 17+ years SOC; delivering SOA dynamic lifecycle, reference architecture, architecture stack, business bridging to technology, security, meta-model requirements, taxonomy, governance, business process optimization (BPO), data behavior, business and infrastructure patterns, view based architecture and model based architecture.  • 20 + years founding architecture on FEA, DoDAF, TOGAF and Zachman frameworks, and fusing cohesive strategy, tactical and operational models.    Successful High Achiever:  • Revitalized the State of Nevada's Security Architecture, enabled the passage of $110 million dollar IT modernization budget through the Legislature and created concepts of Agency Reuse through Enterprises within Enterprises.  • Turned NBCU's highly disparate business organizational tapestry into a modern multiverse operational view creating a revitalized highly adaptable corporate taxonomy to redistribute the broadband/multi-media Business for Time-Warner absorption.  • Turned Honda around from a regionally strapped, high-risk and fragmented value chain operation into developing a master global platform abating adversarial regional loss of control.  • Provided Bank of America with a an enterprise architectural revitalization and resilience program to move BOA from legacy dependence to highly available role based profiles allowing for transition to 24 hour real-time banking;  • Provided Genomic with a foundational MetaModel to explore and evolve global DNA in a yota-data (1024) cloud. Please find below a series of Skills and Experience Matrixes