Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Proclan Solutions Pvt Ltd • Have 3 years of experience in Python development  • Extensive experience in software development with major focus in Python technology.  • Knowledge on Web frame works like Django  • Proficient in object oriented software engineering methodologies  • Hands on Experience on IDLE's Like Pycharm  • Good Exposure on Python Modules  • Experience with Version Controllers like GIT  • Experience of Databases such as MySQL  • Strong knowledge in object oriented programming  • Ability to handle multiple tasks and work independently as well as in a team  • Proactive, dedicated, zeal to learn new technologies and tools  • Excellent communication, organization and interpersonal skills  • Have knowledge on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile Methodology Work Experience Python Developer Proclan Solutions Pvt Ltd November 2016 to Present Tools: Python, MySQL, PyCharm, Django  Team Size: 8    Description:  Electronica Finance Limited is a Non-Banking Finance Company engaged in providing machinery loans, working capital loans, industrial property loans & business loans to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in India.  Financial Information Monitoring Organizer is an online application that monitors all the information of a Micro Finance Organization that means it maintains all the financial information and other information regarding the finance organization. This provides a very user friendly interface and security to the user of a micro finance organization    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding the Application and implementing the business logic.  • Developing Python code for Data Integration.  • Involved in creating modules using Python required for the project.  • Involved in creating model forms, views, URLs for the application.  • Performing code coverage and standardization.  • Involved in retrieving the data by using MySql.  • Support team members in understanding the client-raised bugs.  • Making day to day changes in the project according to client request fixing reported bugs and writing script.    Project:  Project Name: Lets Drive Along Software Engineer Proclan Solutions Pvt Ltd - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN November 2015 to Present Skill Set:  • Platforms: Windows Family    • Web Technologies: HTML, Django    • RDBMS: MySql    • Language: Python, C    Project:  Project Name: Financial Information Monitoring Organizer Developer Proclan Solutions Pvt Ltd November 2015 to October 2016 Tools: Python, MySQL, PyCharm, Django  Team Size: 6    Description:  Lets Drive Along is a social networking site through which people can meet up for sharing their ride with in the city. Lets Drive Along is also known as vehicle-sharing and ride-sharing. The main intention of this site is, if you have a vehicle split costs by offering vehicle pools. If you don't have a vehicle, use the system to find a vehicle pool. Through this a Ride Sharer can share his ride with Ride Seeker and Ride Seeker can share a ride with the Ride Sharer. By sharing a ride we can save gas, money and reduce auto emissions and also meet new friends. Lets Drive Along's main motto is to control Pollution, parking, traffic and road maintenance. People can share experiences as well as expenses and help each other. Moderators here work hard 24/7 to provide the services and at the same time maintain the user database very securely and updating it regularly. Lets Drive Along will only be used by IT/ NON-IT professional's so as to ensure the safety and security of the entire site users. It contains three main modules Ride Sharer (provider), Ride Seeker requestor), and administrator.    Responsibilities:  • Provide full life cycle support to clients from initial requirements analysis through design, coding, testing, debugging, release management and integration.  • Developing the web application using Django framework.  • DJango framework for the Python objects persistence in database.  • Developing the User interfaces using Html, CSS.  • Running unit test cases according to requirements.    • Making day to day changes in the project fixing reported bugs and writing script.