Sr Systems Engineer Sr Systems Engineer Sr Systems Engineer Philadelphia, PA Work Experience Sr Systems Engineer January 2019 to April 2019 Sr Systems Engineer Medecision September 2018 to October 2018 Various projects:  • Created engineering document for Rack Space to install sssd on all of production and non-production servers.  • Took care of all production issues as they come in via Jira tickets.  • Adhered to Change Management process for all production activities.  • Configured Logrotate for all vendors on production servers.  • Worked with Rack Space for all cloud technologies. Sr Linux Engineer Philadelphia School District February 2018 to June 2018 Various projects:  • Installed and configured graylog 3 node cluster (free version of splunk)  • Installed from the ground up a VmWare 6.5 cluster with 2 ESXi hosts and one NAS nfs server with 9 T. Also created an external PSC and a VCA. All VLANs in the lab cluster mirrored production for testing of upgrades and all other production configurations.  • Created Python scripts to automate vendor traffic. Converted Perl scripts to Python 3.4 using MySQL.  • Installed and configured an ELK cluster with 5 elasticsearch nodes, using GROK configuration in logstash. Sr Linux Engineer November 2017 to February 2018 Various projects:  • Create script to install all Linux servers with sssd.  • Installed sssd and samba on all samba rhel6 and rhel7 servers, removing winbind.  • Remove IPV6 on all servers  • Remove remote root login on all servers  • Install swatch for secure log file analysis (for audit purposes)  • Disable all local accounts on Linux servers  • answered all tickets in remedy as needed for the Linux team. Sr Linux Engineer/ Python developer Wells Fargo Bank March 2017 to November 2017 • Python and PHP scriptwriter: automating installation scripts for Wells Fargo CSIT department. Installations are on the following platforms.  * Redhat Linux 70%  * windows server 25%  * all other 5%  • Installed software which has funding to all new servers. ~1000 new servers are built per month. I installed software and found ways to automate the process with python 3.6.1. I worked with a team of 25 engineers.  • Created a PHP intranet site to interface with MySQL database which displays all information on IBM udeploy application installation data. The site was populated with an automated python script after udeploy install. Sr Linux Engineer Amerihealth Caritas August 2015 to February 2017 • Redhat Linux systems engineer managing two Data Centers. One in Philadelphia and the other DR site in Reading PA: Data Center consisted: 650 Redhat Linux 6.8 servers.  • Red Hat Satellite 6 Administration Version 6.1 training.  • Attended one week Centrify training course. Centrify administration.  • Configured kdump on all servers in both Data centers copying all core dumps to production and development file servers.  • Configured CIFS for all application servers to interface with DFS.  • Tuned Linux kernel for all production issues. (/etc/sysctl.conf)  ? Disabled softlockup and swappiness on all systems.  ? Optimize sysctl.conf kernel parameters.  • Created and optimized two active/active production clusters on RHEL 6.8 creating striped volumes in LVM and configuration of Tuned and aggressive read ahead as well as configuration of clvmd with the creation of GFS2 shared file system.  • Extensive experience with all lvm volumes for all servers as needed. Increased cluster volumes in VmWare while resizing in OS. Optimized disks on production Sybase servers.  • Created templates VMs for production and non-production servers in both data centers in VmWare 5.5.  • Compiled, installed, and configured Microsoft ODBC SQL 11 driver on RedHat Linux 6.8. (setup odbc.ini configuration file for use with all SQL databases)  • Installed all built VMs in Orion for monitoring of estate. I also used Splunk for analytic and report generation.  • Created sosreports and core dumps of crashed servers and uploaded to RedHat. Worked with Redhat Technical support to get a root cause of all issues. Remediation of all issues in production while adhering to our change management system for our entire estate.  • Applied Ansible configuration management 2.2.0: created role for integration global sudo.  • VmWare 5.5 Administration.  ? Check performance of ESX Hosts through vCenter: CPU , Network, Disk and Memory.  ? Add Roles to configuration.  ? Add Linux VMs to network. ( production Redhat ES 6.8 servers )  ? Allocating SAN space - Creating Datastores. ( EMC vnx5300 NAS/SAN )  ? Configure alerts in vCenter and alert emails sent when actions are triggered.  ? Created Linux templates.  ? Identified datastores for adding/removing/resizing disks.  • Modified in-house sudo rpm for site implementation.  • Built and configured 53 Sybase ASE 15.7 Vms for OLTP, 28 Oracle 12c VM's and about 30 Mongo VMs for production and development database teams. Also built another 320 VMs for all other departments as needed.  • Intense automation of estate with all projects approved in Changed Management system with bash/awk and python scripting.  • Installed Oracle 12c and MySQL on production Virtual Machines. Systems / Unix Staff Engineer The Vanguard Group August 2014 to August 2015 • Unix systems administrator managing Northeast Philadelphia Data Center. PA: Data Center consisted: 1700 Servers: Solaris and Redhat Linux 6.4  • Responsible for all RedHat ES 6.4 administration.  • Monitor all Web Servers by analyzing all httpd logs as needed.  • Worked with siteminder as required by team.  • Used Splunk for estate analysis and generation of reports.  • Patching all RHEL servers and Oracle Solaris servers every week.  • Monitor and complete all Unix tickets for Unix team.  • Help Junior admins acquire UNIX skills to perform duties.  • Omnibus Tivoli alerting system and monitor all alerts coming in to Unix team.  • Monitor Web Sites for production. Administered website by answering all alerts in Tivoli and troubleshooting all alerts to keep apache web servers operational.  • Perform all break fix and monitor all incoming calls to Unix Team.  • Create all tickets with Redhat and Oracle for Unix servers as needed.  • Provide support in the following areas: Sun Solaris and Red Hat Linux.  ? Troubleshoot, install, configure and maintain the UNIX midrange environment during business hours and off-hours during on-call.  ? Provide data protection, recovery and business continuity, test and validate disaster recovery and business continuity methods. Perform routine backup and recovery for data protection and integrity.  ? Monitor UNIX environments that consist of complex systems and equipment.  ? Perform high availability installation, support and monitoring, System data protection, backup and restore, AD authentication, user account management, disk storage management, hardware and OS maintenance.  ? Coordinate all hardware failures with vendors. Generating explorer dumps in Solaris 10 and sosreports as well as core dumps in RHEL 6.8 as needed. Systems / Unix Staff Engineer Arris Group Inc - Horsham, PA November 2012 to August 2014 Data Center. Sole Unix admin on site.  • Responsible for all RedHat ES 6.4 administration. Created VmWare templates for RedHat ES Linux VMs.  • Racked and installed Oracle v490 and m3000 servers with Solaris 10. Installed 10_Recommended patches. Configured server in NIS+ domain.  • Racked and installed HP Blade c7000 used as a VmWare 5.1 server.  • NIS+ administration. Managed users and hosts in gi.com domain.  • IBM System Storage TS3310 Administration and Quantum Scalar i500 for Horsham Site with VERITAS Netbackup 6.5 and commvault. Lead contact for Iron Mountain. Responsible for all backups with two accounts.  • Helped in the reconfiguration of data center. Retired all unused servers and consolidated all live servers to new racks. Rewired all servers and worked with networking.  • Was instrumental in creating procedures for site management. Determined guidelines of Unix and Networking Role for site and relayed information to management. Participated in SOP documentation of all procedures and projects.  • Created an apache cluster for an HA HTTP environment. Monitored company intranet website and configured httpd.conf as needed. Troubleshooted any issues while keeping the intranet site up with active/passive for 99.99% uptime for electrical engineers.  • Installed sudo 1.8.4p4 on all servers in datacenter.  • Setup RAID 1 with Disk Suite Oracle severs for production use.  • Installed Dell 1850 which was used as a syslog-ng 3.2.5 CentOS 6.4 server with two Concatenated disks for database partition. Syslog-ng was ported to a file system and a MySQL database. All Unix hosts sent logs to loghost repository.  • VmWare 5.1 Administration.  ? Check performance of ESX Hosts through vCenter: CPU , Network, Disk and Memory.  ? Add Roles to configuration.  ? Add Linux VMs to network. ( production Redhat ES 5.5 servers )  ? Allocating SAN space - Creating Datastores. ( EMC vnx5300 NAS/SAN )  ? Configure alerts in vCenter and alert emails sent when actions are triggered.  ? Created Linux templates.  • Maintained Cyclades ACS48 console switch for use in production environment.  • Part of the team to decommission EMC file server DMX 2000-M2 and replaced with VNX 5300.  • Replaced Disk Suite mirrored drives in servers as necessary in production environment when drives failed.  • Created hardware raid mirrors in m3000 servers which were installed with Solaris 10 u11 2013.  • Configuration of tape retention policies to maximize efficiency and minimize off-site storage with Iron Mountain.  • Re-sized mounted volumes on RedHat Linux ES 6.4 Virtual Machines with LVM as requested by mechanical engineers.  • Worked on all Unix related tickets for Data Center site in PA.  • Worked with DBAs to get netbackup running with Oracle Rman on VmWare 5.1 Virtual Machines RedHat ES 5.9 servers.  • I configured a XYmon 4.3.12 server on a VmWare 5.1 instance to monitor all servers in an HA configuration for Motorola Home world-wide. This project took about 3 months to complete. The clients were in 12 countries and at 22 cities around the world. Worked with all administrators for each site. Configured apache to accommodate. RCS revision control was installed for all administration work. Wrote scripts in XYmon 4.3.12 to tailor to environment.  • As of 1/2/2014 , for 3 months, I became the sole UNIX admin for two datacenters. ( Lowell, MA. And Horsham, PA. )  • Modified NTP configuration in pa06 Site to accommodate for new Motorola  servers. Unix systems administrator Lockheed Martin Corporation - Valley Forge, PA April 2012 to November 2012 4200 users ). Responsible for two sites. Part of a three man team.  • Installed and configured VERITAS netbackup 6.5 on Solaris 10 which I installed with the 10_Recommended patch cluster with an Oracle StorageTek SL500 LTO 3 tape library for production use in Aerospace technologies Division , Valley Forge PA. Configured Netbackup master with all policies to backup all Unix clients. Installed all clients with Netbackup 6.5 client ( Solaris and HP-UX Unix servers ). Debugged all Netbackup client issues for correctness. Responsible for Netbackup in two sites ( Valley Forge and Newtown ).  • Installed sudo 1.8.4p4 on all production servers and workstations in Newtown ( configured for +1300 users ). The /etc/sudoers file was pushed out to all hosts.  • Installed lsof 4.8 on all Solaris and HP-UX servers in Aerospace Technologies Division in Newtown Pa. for Information Security to analyze all process activity for information security.  • Installed the recommended patches per EVAN nessus scanning every week on all Solaris Servers in Newtown and Valley Forge, PA. Worked with Information Security to aid in scanning servers throughout Space Systems for server consolidation in Sunnyvale, CA.  • Converted servers/workstations in Newtown and Valley Forge to aide in the migration from NIS to the JEDI LDAP domain. All servers and workstations are to be migrated to the corporate JEDI LDAP domain.  • Netapp v3050 filer administration. ( Resizing of volumes and quotas, modifying group permissions and backup )  • Answering to Remedy Ticketing Unix queue for Valley Forge and Newtown PA. Attended to all UNIX incidents in Remedy. Supported two sites and 4200 users.  • Jumpstarted and installed Solaris 10 on servers on the JEDI LDAP domain for Space Systems. Debugged failing jumpstart server for production use. Worked with networking. Created SOI for Unix team to aide in jumpstart procedure.  • Created SOI documentation for all work performed for UNIX Team members.  • Installed Redhat ES 6.1 for JEDI LDAP domain.  • Managed Flexlm license server for C/C++ software engineers.  • Managed LDAP domain by changing all NIS UIDs to LDAP corporate UIDs. Modified all files for users with no work interruption. All work done during working hours in Newtown, PA.  • Racked new dual head Netapp FAS3240 filer. Setup of NAS hardware and configuration of all disks for production use. Setup clustering for high availability and load balancing for both nodes. Upgraded OS to 8.1P1. Installed system manager 2.0. Created Aggregates, Volumes, and Qtrees. Converted all aggregates to 64 bit ( including aggr0 ). Snapmirrored all volumes from old filers to new Netapp and installed in snapmirror.conf for continuous feed. Implemented and monitored new quota environment.  • Debugged VAX 4500 production issues with users.  • Configured all HP-UX and Solaris servers in Newtown and Valley Forge for the LAMS monitoring system. Unix/SAN Administrator Law School Admission Council July 2011 to January 2012 • HP EVA Storage Array 8100 Administration with HP Command View Monthly Storage Analysis for Capacity Planning of Storage Array.  • Auto Port Aggregation on production systems for 99.999% uptime. Document was submitted for document repository for the UNIX team.  • Responsible for VERITAS NetBackup 7.0.1 Administration on HP Storage Works MSL 6060 tape Library.  • Responsible for HP Storage Essentials Report Generation and Policy Manager Alerts for EVA Storage Array.  • HP-UX 11i v3 server administration on HP Integrity rx6600 servers. Unix Engineer October 2010 to May 2011 • Installed and created an intranet RedHat ES 5.3 VmWare 4.1 client Kickstart server using DHCP, TFTP and PXE technology for booting and installing off the network. Server consisted of 32 bit and 64 bit Red Hat Enterprise 5.3 systems stored on Hitachi SAN AMS 2100.  • VmWare 4.1 administration using vCenter.  • Configure alerts in vCenter and alert emails sent when actions are triggered.  • Added VM to boot through the network for PXE server installation.  • Monitor VM's through vCenter.  • Cloning VM's  • Installed and administered Nagios 3.2.3 on all Unix and Windows Systems in MiddleTown NJ on SNOC Security Development servers. Installed NRPE on all systems. Created user-defined nagios plug-ins for monitoring developers processes in Unix security system SNOC network.  • Worked with at&t Middletown security development group to administer all Unix systems with Solaris 9, 10 and RedHat ES 4.x and 5.3 (32 and 64 bit operating systems).  • Created Twiki Documents for all work performed contributing to an SOP Document repository.  • Created bash scripts as needed to maintain production of security servers.  • Unix Engineer responsible for sun virtualization Solaris 10 zones administration.  • Created and managed in-house yum repository for kickstart server.  • Racked and installed PDU's, switches, KVMs, and IBM system x3650's. Senior Linux Systems Administrator / Devops Applied Bank April 2006 to December 2009 • VmWare 3.5 system administration.  • Check performance of ESX Hosts through vCenter: CPU , Network, Disk and Memory.  • Add Roles to configuration.  • Add VMs to network. ( syslog-ng , ftp and CVS servers )  • Automate VM Shutdown/Startup.  • Allocating SAN space - Creating Datastores. ( Hitachi SAN AMS 2100 )  • Configure alerts in vCenter and alert emails sent when actions are triggered.  • Created bash and awk scripts to facilitate and automate all UNIX processes via cron using authorized change controls approved by management. All scripts were documented in OWL Unix repository for team access and explanation.  • Created centralized syslog-ng servers over SSH wrapper for east coast on RHEL 5.4 server. Servers were created in VmWare 3.5 as VMs in Florida and Pennsylvania data centers. All logs from all RedHat servers were ported to a centralized mysql server database which was linked to a file server in PA. All logs were encrypted by SSH wrapper and was determined secure per security team. I configured Syslog-ng with heightened security for DMZ servers to accommodate for incoming invalid SSH attempts and email to security team.  • Created load balanced FTP servers housing chrooted vendors for company FTP site on RHEL 5.4 servers. Servers were created in VmWare 3.5 as VMs in Florida and Pennsylvania data centers. Each node was attached to a centralized file server using encrypted NFS over SSH in Pennsylvania. I created scripts to facilitate FTP server management. Automation scripts were created to accommodate for certain high profile company vendors and are still in use today.  • Developed script to encompass all cron daily output information in single report for auditors and management. Through the use of these scripts all cron errors were rectified.  • Created script to identify all vendors/users, on FTP site, that have been inactive for 180 days. Script accessed syslog-ng MySQL database for processing.  • Created Bash scripts to help in the daily operations of the department.  • Configured cfengine to incorporate all QA/UAT jboss ear file repository for testing in QA environment. Cfengine scripts were run through cron to automate processing.  • Jboss 4.01 administration.  • Submitted SOPs in department document repository for all projects.  • Created VmWare 3.5 client CVS/Website on RHEL 5.4 VM server for all java developers.  • Created kickstart clients on VmWare ESX server version 3.5 on Hitachi SAN on RHEL 5.4 servers. Submitted change controls for all work performed. Adhered to change control procedure for all production systems.  • Created Perl script for time maintenance to keep internal time in sync with NTP time servers twice daily through cron. Script kept clients on time within one second throughout the day.  • Hardened Redhat Linux 5 system as follows:  • Configure sshd  • Give ssh access to specified group  • Remove remote root access  • Disable IPv6  • Set Kernel Parameters ( /etc/sysctl.conf )  • Configure IPtables  • Configure NTP  • Disable unnecessary services  • Disable SUID and SGID Binaries  • Configure PAM to enable strong passwords Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Villanova University Master's degree in Computer Science West Chester University