Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Python Golang San Jose, CA • Full software lifecycle - Design, code, test, package, deploy. SCRUM lifecycle Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer ProKarma at Veritas EVCloud - Culver City, CA July 2017 to August 2017 • Wrote prototype Golang Go multiprocessing Daemon to accept smtp requests from archival agents.  • Wrote Python installation wrapper script. Python Developer Radients at SAP Success Factors - San Francisco, CA February 2017 to May 2017 • Wrote Python code to pull daily usage from Dynatrace API  • Wrote Splunk Dashboards to display Dynatrace data in stacked column and table form  • Wrote Powershell code to utilize Azure CLI 2.0.5 to create VM's and alerts and templates.  • Created reports with Python code to pull statistics from Azure including VM's, Storage Accounts and Alerts.  • Monitoring of storage system on Openstack Cinder deployment in 3 data centers. Complete Chef Devops Codesmart at Expeditors International Shipping Company Seattle WA / Devops November 2016 to February 2017 lifecycle. Wrote Chef recipes to deploy Java apps from Nexus repository  • Wrote Powershell automated installer using Chocolatey to install Chef Devops workstation on PC's  • Optimized Chef builds using SSD and Megaraid SSD RAID 0 array for faster Chef cookbook builds. consultant USTechSolutionsInc at Walmart Labs - Sunnyvale, CA August 2016 to October 2016 • Build Engineer for e-comm servers - Redhat, Centos and Ubuntu linux.  • Wrote puppet scripts for deployment of ongoing Linux components for Openstack deployment.  • Wrote Ansible scripts to deploy Puppet agents to newly created servers.  • Wrote Ansible scripts to provide BIOS settings over iLO  • Wrote Ansible scripts to provide Puppet verification of proper completed puppet software pushes.  • Automation of Redhat Satellite Server Provisioning  • Analysis of existing network management topology - move to CMDB push architecture.  • Golang prototyping for distributed linux provisioning. Software Cloud reporting app Engineer Apple Computer September 2015 to March 2016 • IOS App for integration with realtime JSON based Zabbix Alerts  • Wrote JSON Zabbix extraction script in Python.  • Wrote IOS app to read Zabbix Alerts in JSON and allow sorting of alerts. Software Engineer Intuit - Splunk December 2014 to August 2015 • Cloud capacity real-time reporting web app for Cloud9 deployment  • Google tools for real-time graphs, custom javascript, JSON data transfer Software Engineer Websense - San Diego, CA November 2012 to May 2014 • C / C++ remediation of Websense security software defects on Linux builds  • Q/A load testing of Websense security suite on 10G Cisco switch hardware.  • Packaging of builds into RPM's. Jenkins continuous builds  • Buildout of linux build servers with Django front end for custom builds. Software Engineer Seattle WA part time Websense May 2013 to September 2013 • Analysis of EMC custom VNX and Isilon Perl monitoring script at ATT in Seattle  • Generation of security certificates to enable SSL encrypted path for data exchange  • Test of custom ATT generated dash board written in C# with new certificates with VNX storage  • Wrote Perl script for gathering storage performance and capacity information for EMC VMX Storage Software Performance Engineer (Contractor) Netapp - Boulder, CO March 2012 to June 2012 • Mapping storage performance of cache based SSD backed storage.  • Running storage performance tests and graphing with Gnuplot and Excel  • Created automated Perl test harness for automated storage performance testing  • Built Linux Driver caching solution using SSD's. Building installable kernel driver .ko module  • Tested Caching performance against Facebook cache.  • Software Build Engineer - Linux device drivers for storage cache testing, gmake w/ gnu software stacks  • Linux Kernel Development - Bcache kernel modification. Addition of metadata for internal caching solution  • Storage performance test scripts written in Python to run continuous FIO read/write performance testing.  • Create software build runbooks to hand off performance testing to new Netapp hires. Compellent Equallogic PV consultant Dell Computers October 2011 to February 2012 • PDA group: Respond to RFP's for customer storage configurations for a GO/NO-GO decision  • C# software on Visual Studio for converting Web based input to .doc word based RFP for sales team consumption. Storage consultant Collabera/Accenture @Stanford Medical - Palo Alto, CA May 2011 to August 2011 • Senior Datacenter Storage Admin - Avamar protectio of 600 servers of SHC for Accenture.  • Created runbooks for Accenture Storage Backup Operations team in India.  • Monitoring of proper operation of Avamar Backup servers with EMC on site Avamar lead.  • Day to day operations of Avamar and Networker backups as required by Accenture and Stanford Health Center.  • Restores of EMC VMAX corrupted LUNS. Monitoring of Oracle Databases.  • Provisioning of EMC VMAX for day to day needs of Oracle DBA's.  • Emergency restores of servers as required by Management and Accenture teams during migrations.  • Migration LUN creation and zoning for migrating servers and databases  • Monitored migrated servers with Splunk for operational errors and correctness.  • Setup puppet master to assist with migration to green field Cisco UCS servers.  • Create run book for Avamar backups and restores to hand to Run team. Software Performance Engineer (Contractor) ATT - Redmond, WA December 2010 to May 2011 • Build of AAB - Address Book software into executable package  • Test performance with Jmeter against S.L.A. Software Performance Engineer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA May 2010 to October 2010 • Build and Patch of C / C++ test harness for running inter base station hand off test software  • Run test software with Oracle DBA.  • Adjust EMC storage for optimal Oracle DB RAC performance. Software Engineer (Contractor) Citrixonline - Santa Barbara, CA November 2009 to April 2010 • Wrote Perl software to monitor Fibre Defects in real time between SAN switch and target nodes.  • Remediate Fibre Cabling defects as identified by software Datacenter Storage and ESX Architect Lawrence Livermore National Labs - Livermore, CA November 2008 to October 2009 • Senior Datacenter Architect and PM - Vmware ESX Architecture and roll out. Storage refresh.  • Analysis of existing storage environment - redesign of Finisar monitoring solution. Upgrade to 8 gig Finisar monitoring pending.  • Design and deployment of Live Site Ops monitoring with SNMP connection into Netapp, Hitachi and 3PAR storage systems.  • Display of real time performance with Splunk monitoring tool.  • Rollout Splunk to external stakeholders Architecture of Vmware Cluster using Virtual Center and ESX servers. Attachment to 3Par storage over iSCSI on dedicated IP network to green field Vmware rollout.  • Upgrade of storage infrastructure to 8 gig SAN using Brocade 5300 class switches.  • Data Domain DD690 De-duplication systems.  • Rollout of Vmware 4.0 vSphere Cluster using iSCSI on 3par 400 backend. Documentation of whole process and handoff to Live Site team.  • Splunk architecture and rollout of monitoring tool for Live Site team and data base teams See: http://jeffreyfall.com:8000 for sample. Decommission of Hitachi Lightening arrays. Upgrade to 3par 800 series  • Wrote custom Splunk Module for custom monitoring of Laser metrics and realtime feedback in Python. http://lasers.llnl.gov Senior Datacenter Architect - Project Management Low Cost - Emeryville, CA August 2007 to November 2008 i365, Emeryville, CA Storage Product Architect 4PB CAPD (Contractor) Aug 2007 - Nov 2008  Datacenter CAPD PM and implementation  • Senior Datacenter Architect - Project Management - Low Cost 4 petabyte storage grid.  • Product Specification - Architecture of low cost 200 TB storage grid. Goal: five 9's of uptime. HA configuration. Cost lower than existing storage solutions offered by top tier vendors  • Vendor Selection - Core prototype constructed from Solaris 10 servers. iSCSI arrays evaluated in terms of cost over 7 data centers. Arrays evaluated in terms of performance, recovery from induced failure, MTBF statistics.  • Program Management - Weekly reporting to management of project essentials including acceptance testing, training of staff, deployment of prototype to remote data centers, failure and recovery scenarios, system administration automation.  • System Administration and Automation - Setup Sun Clusters for HA availability of ZFS volumes. Integrate with CIFS/Samba. Build cutting edge 3.2 based cluster from open Solaris B79b and test integrated Solaris CIFS solution.  • Filesystem tuning - Tune SAMQFS filesystem for a heavy read/write environment. Review performance. Analyze source for potential bottlenecks.  • Realtime System Monitoring - Gather requirements for Cacti monitoring system. Implement Cacti monitoring of all iSCSI interfaces on Cicso Catalyst switches and Sun X4100 servers. Example: http://jeffreyfall.com:82/cacti log in guest password guest Perm employee Sun Microsystems - Newark, CA March 2004 to May 2007 Array Product Evangelist - presales / postsales  • Senior Systems New Products Presales Engineer; multiple Storage products  • Software Development and Hands On - Coded Java solution for Sun Licensing Center. Automated licensing process using Java, Tomcat Web server and mySQL. Built test harnesses from C++ using Engenio Symbol API for automated array volume and LUN configuration scripts.  • Program Management - Managed OEM product definition processes for Sun Storage products including 6130 and 6140 arrays.  • All project details including SOW, costs, beta deployment schedule, beta firmware upgrades and software program. Interaction with stakeholders on all levels inside and outside of Sun Microsystems to promote beta schedule and product. Successful deployment of SE6130 and ST6140 arrays. Managed weekly Program Management meetings with all stakeholders to manage and assure program schedules.  • Evangelist - Direct and promote adoption of 6130 and 6140 array products into PTS, Marketing and Sales organizations of Sun Microsystems assuring internal penetration of new array product. Called on Retail clients for evaluation such as Ross and Home Depot  • Performance Measurement Program - Directed Direct performance testing and specification of SE6130 and ST6140 arrays using internal Sun and external resources to provide performance metrics for winning business and/or retaining key Sun Microsystems accounts.  • Sales and Systems Engineer Program Management - Direct program direction with Sales Teams on key accounts - provide architecture specification, performance metrics and integration approaches to assure seamless delivery and data migration of array and server products to new and existing Sun Microsystems customer accounts to assure program acceptance and success at Revenue Release dates.  • Vendor competive analysis - Evaulated array offering from competitors such as Hitachi and Netapp. Evaulated peformance of Hitachi midrange arrays. Evaluated performance of Netapp FAS series arrays. Storage Engineer (contractor) Texas Department of Health and Human Services - Austin, TX November 2003 to February 2004 For C&T Consulting, Austin, Texas  Senior Storage Area Network (SAN) engineer - MIS Division, Sybase and Oracle databases  • Directed re-architecture effort of underutilized in house Brocade based SAN  • Brought direct attached HP K-Class systems into the SAN  • Upgrade of all firmware in Brocade switches and HBA's and Compaq HSV-12000 RAID.  • Stress test of SAN for 10,000 users - complete training and documentation for Dept.  • Testing of HP Secure Path failover mechanisms under load  • Stress tested backup SAN with Netbackup.  • Delivered rapid diagnostic Microsoft VB and C# .NET app for diagnostic of 12 HP servers. Storage Engineer (contractor) Fujitsu - Sunnyvale, CA January 2002 to September 2002 Senior Storage Engineer, GR Engineering team, Enterprise storage division  • Managed Fujitsu GR series array problem reproduction and resolution between Sunnyvale based Sales Division and Japan based corporate offices.  • Managed customer expectations with key Fujitsu customers to understand Fujitsu capabilities and problem resolution strategy and time line for new firmware loads.  • Mentored and provided scoping of special array software projects to enhance array functionality as requested to gain sales advantage by custom upgrades to array firmware. Perm Employee Big Sur Communications August 2001 to January 2002 Senior Architect and Software Engineer iSCSI - Direct Hire  • Architected Chip bring-up Executive Processes and functions to bring up Fibre Channel and Ethernet proposed interfaces on 16 core LXI based SoC.  • Performance measurement of University of New Hampshire iSCSI target and Cisco initiator drivers and I/O characterization.  • Architecture of iSCSI spec for distillation to hardware group for fast 10 gig wire speed implementation of iSCSI to FC by Electrical Engineers designing prototype SoC.  • Wrote Fibre Channel bring up routines in C for HP based Fibre channel SDK. Senior Storage Software and Protocols Engineer Hewlett Packard Company - Cupertino, CA 2000 to May 2001 • Managed relationships between internal HP server divisions (software) and external hardware vendors.  • Directed Input Output Dependent Code (server BIOS) C code integration between Ft. Collins, Roseville and Cupertino HP sites between Workstations and Server Divisions.  • Managed IODC BIOS firmware escalations across HP Divisions to satisfy hot customer accounts.  • Managed redesign and implementation of DVD firmware download and test program to support live field service DVD upgrades. Education B.S. in Computer Science University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA Skills ARCHITECTURE (6 years), C++ (5 years), JAVA (3 years), PYTHON (2 years), LINUX (10+ years) Links https://github.com/jefffall http://jeffreyfall.com/software http://jeffreyfall.com Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Software: Go, Golang, C, C++, Java, Python, Perl, assembler, sh, ksh, bash, Swift, C#, Eclipse and VS IDE's  • Web: JSON, javascript  • Repositories: Git, CVS, Clearcase  • Platforms: Linux, Windows, Windriver VXworks.  • Deep understanding of hardware devices, Radio and RF, Hardware bus architecture, linux kernel  • Device Drivers - registers, interrupts bring up. Reading schematics, sensors.