Consultant Consultant Consultant Jacksonville, FL Proactive, task-oriented technology expert with 20 years of diverse experience solving complex problems in: C#.NET, JEE, C++, Software and System Architecture, OOA, OOD, Project Management, Process Management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant Allstate - Jacksonville, FL July 2017 to October 2017 Responsible for support of AWD workflow automation system.  ? C#.NET and Java technologies. SQL Server and Oracle databases.  ? Image processing. Consultant U.S. Department of State - Washington, DC April 2016 to March 2017 Consulted on initial implementation of a supply chain software product in support of Diplomatic Security. Technology was Oracle Primavera Portfolio Management, Oracle, C#.NET, JavaScript, MicroStrategy.  ? Work included integration with existing systems. Consultant Anderson Columbia - Jacksonville, FL March 2015 to March 2016 Responsible for architecture and development of new time and attendance software product.  ? Various technologies, including Microsoft and Oracle supported products.  ? Had role as team lead for four-person development team.  ? Responsible for providing performance tuning guidance on existing systems. Consultant Citigroup - Jacksonville, FL September 2012 to December 2014 As an architect in the Process Re-engineering, Program Tools Group, supported Citi's initial configuration and deployment of the Oracle Primavera Portfolio Management (OPPM) application.  ? Mentored team of offshore and near-shore architects and developers.  ? Created architecture for front-end tools in ASP.NET, with C# and JavaScript, for the Java back-end OPPM application.  ? Used a proprietary, dynamic application configuration tool.  ? Leading the effort to accomplish the implementation of OPPM within Citi's environment, coordinated the combined efforts of Oracle's application development team, Oracle's IIS application server support team, Microsoft's SQL Server support team, Citi's infrastructure provisioning support team, Citi's performance measurement and monitoring teams, third-party contracting teams, and Citi's PMO.  ? Led technical support of the initial OPPM roll-out.  ? Utilized the OPPM API to:  ? Create a bridge to Citi's Business Intelligence and Security solutions department.  ? Create formatted data, used to build reports for Business Analysis department.  ? Create adapters that allowed implementation of production OPPM functionality.  ? Create adapters for ancillary internal reporting and processes. Senior Java Developer (Consultant) Jacksonville, FL July 2012 to August 2012 Created rules-based JEE solution components for the automobile insurance industry. Technical Architect IV Lender Processing Services (LPS) - Jacksonville, FL June 2012 to July 2012 Designed enterprise solutions for .NET and JEE platforms. Design Team Lead (Consultant) Bank of America - Jacksonville, FL March 2008 to May 2012 Managed team of 10 Design Team Leads, working on eCommerce applications. Also worked on the Merrill Lynch Transition project, Countrywide Transition, LaSalle Transition, as well as Strategic Technology projects. Each Design Team Lead was responsible for driving project teams comprising 10 - 50 subject matter experts. ASP.NET with C#; JEE with Struts, Spring, Hibernate. Consulted on effort to bring Apache Wicket into the organization.  ? Created high-level and low-level designs for C#, JEE and open-source projects. Platforms included Linux, and Windows web, application and database servers.  ? Led Enterprise Data Center Integration project, which moved applications hosted in Merrill Lynch data centers to Bank of America data centers.  ? Created architecture and code in support of infrastructure engineering teams. Created scripts to assist in automation of manual process.  ? Created Costing Workbooks for each project, including projected hours for each implementer and itemized projected capital and recurring costs. Rational Tools Mentor (Consultant) Citrix - Fort Lauderdale, FL November 2007 to January 2008 Performed initial implementation of IBM Rational tools in J2EE environment.  • Analyzed pre-implementation software development process at Citrix.  • Created plan for effective mapping of current process to Rational tools.  • Wrote programs to meld the existing Citrix requirements and configuration management artifacts with the Rational Suite, Java-based offerings. Real-time Python/C++/ /Java Developer (Consultant) Information & Display Systems (IDS) - Jacksonville, FL July 2006 to October 2007 Performed architecture (Rational Rose), analysis, algorithm creation, development and testing in support of several real-time sports scoring and statistical systems (NBA, NHL, LPGA), targeted at television broadcasters and their support staffs. Included both web-based and backend original application creation.  ? Created original Python middleware to implement NHL rules engine. Analyst (Consultant) Blue Cross Blue Shield of Florida - Jacksonville, FL November 2005 to July 2006 Created use cases and UML models in support of Federal Employee Program (FEP) Migration project (a Rational Unified Process project). Partially responsible for Transmission functionality, which integrated Blue Cross systems in Jacksonville with FEP systems in Washington D.C. Code was written in J2EE for Websphere.  ? Conducted JAD sessions with user groups, architecture personnel, and development staff, as well as management from each of these areas.  ? Created original utilities for the management of data crosswalks. Software Architect (Consultant) Florida Department of Health - Tallahassee, FL April 2002 to November 2005 Created interfaces to clinical laboratory testing devices for the Bureau of Laboratories, Florida State Department of Health.  ? Created system design and object model (UML/XDE) for new clinical laboratory software system (BOLIMS).  ? Primary responsibility included creating new testing platform using Rational Functional Tester. Code written in J2EE/Eclipse. IBM published article on DeveloperWorks (http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/rational/library/05/419_rft/index.html), detailing my code, which allows for automated testing of dynamically created windows without recording.  ? Invited speaker: Rational Users Conference 2003. Topic categories: Consultant, Advanced, Process. Presentation published by IBM in collection of "most significant" presentations. Published several other paid articles on IBM DeveloperWorks website.  ? Worked on team implementing IBM Rational ClearCase on UNIX servers. Software Architect, Java and C++ Developer (Consultant) Information & Display Systems (IDS) - Jacksonville, FL July 2001 to November 2001 Designed, developed and tested new architecture for real-time sports scoring and statistics system for LPGA. Coded new packages for and fixed existing bugs with C++ / Java 2 code for real-time, Java RMI intranet application. Project included parallel computation sourced from multiple radio packets; significant Java Security implementation; direct interface to Crystal Reports Print Engine (PE) API using Java Native Interface (JNI). Created comprehensive set of test cases and test scripts.  ? Mentored and supervised activities of permanent Java development staff. Software Architect eMerge Interactive - Sebastian, FL August 2000 to May 2001 Created J2EE architecture for Infrastructure group. All models completed in Rational Rose.  ? Created J2EE application for first "real-time" Web-enabled auction. UNIX platform.  ? Created new Rational Unified Process policies and procedures.  ? Helped to implement Rational Unified Process as process of record in becoming ISO certified.  ? Created automated keyword-driven interface to the Rational Robot automated testing tool.  ? Designed and executed automated functional and performance/load tests using Rational Robot and Mercury WinRunner/LoadRunner.  ? Interviewed consultants who were retained by eMerge.  ? Supervised contract resources, as Project Manager for all RUP-related projects. Software Architect Big Iron Software, Inc - Longwood, FL January 2000 to October 2000 Project Manager and chief designer of original J2EE application, designed to garner a U.S. Defense Department contract award. Used UML, Visual Age for Java, Websphere, servlets, JSPs, and XML, on DB2 and MS-Access databases. Created test cases from requirements and test plans; used Rational Robot automated test tool. Software Architect Harcourt, Inc - Orlando, FL January 2000 to August 2000 Designed Global Inventory application, using UML, Visual Age for Java, Websphere, servlets, JSPs, and XML, on DB2 and MS-Access databases. Code was created in Java. Used Mercury WinRunner and LoadRunner testing tools. Software Architect, Sr. Analyst (Consultant) Big Iron Software, Inc - Orlando, FL January 2000 to April 2000 Created architecture and coding for new application that analyzed all data required for Chem-Con of Florida and Chem-Con of Georgia to submit electronic filings of their Biennial Hazardous Waste Reports to the EPA.  ? Chem-Con was notified by the EPA that no other Florida company has ever submitted as accurate a filing (zero errors). Software Architect (Consultant) Lucent Technologies - Orlando, FL May 1999 to October 1999 Completed design, object model, and coding for original 3D graphics utility program. Used UML and Rational Robot automated test tool. Software Architect, Senior Analyst HONOR Technologies - Orlando, FL November 1997 to May 1999 Led the conversion of a MasterCard-owned software package to HONOR's platform (HONOR Technologies is now Star Systems, the largest Automatic Teller Machine network in the USA).    NOTE: The three consulting jobs below overlapped the job above. Software Architect, Sr. Analyst (Consultant) HONOR Technologies - Orlando, FL October 1998 to January 1999 Performed business analysis, system design, and coding for a new Department of Transportation application. Software Architect (Consultant) HONOR Technologies - Orlando, FL August 1998 to November 1998 Performed business analysis, system design, and coding for a new inventory system to track electrical test fixtures for the manufacture of electronic circuit boards. Software Architect HONOR Technologies - Tampa, FL August 1998 to September 1998 Consultant with PriceWaterhouseCoopers)  ? Created design for new Request for Proposal (RFP) statistical analysis and decision support software product. Software Architect, Florida Hospital MIS Sunbelt Systems Concepts - Orlando, FL January 1996 to November 1997 Designed online (CICS) and batch mainframe systems in the areas of Patient Billing and Medicare.  ? Performed coding when required. Software Architect, Sr. Analyst (Consultant) Humana - Louisville, KY January 1997 to July 1997 Created design and models (as well as some coding) for four new applications. Project Manager, Software Architect (Consultant) Int'l Community Marketing - Winter Park, FL December 1996 to January 1997 Supervised completion of an Advertising Leads Generation application.  ? Created process flow diagrams and software models in Visio.  ? Interviewed new applicants and prepared written appraisals of candidates for review by senior management. Software Architect, Sr. Systems Programmer, The Orlando Sentinel Sentinel Communications - Orlando, FL 1987 to 1992 newspaper  ? Performed online (CICS) and batch mainframe enhancements to Circulation application.  ? Completed project management and quality circle leader training; led Development Quality Circle for 2 years.  ? Systems Programmer (3 years). Installed and maintained systems software for IBM mainframes and Novell networks. Programmer Systeme Corporation - Orlando, FL 1986 to 1987 Performed program coding in DEC PDP-11 Assembly language in support of suite of financial applications. Operations Supervisor, Florida Hospital Data Center Compucare, Inc - Orlando, FL 1977 to 1986 Supervised 13 Operations staff members on 24 by 7 basis. Responsible for processing for 13 hospitals. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Graduate Teaching Fellow Springfield College - Springfield, MA June 1995 Bachelor of Science in Mathematics Rollins College - Winter Park, FL May 1983 Skills ARCHITECTURE (10+ years), CICS (7 years), C# (7 years), RATIONAL (7 years), TESTING (6 years) Links http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/rational/library/05/419_rft/index.html Additional Information Technical Summary  ? Operating Systems: Windows, Linux.  ? Web application servers: MS-IIS, Apache Tomcat, Websphere, JBOSS, Weblogic, iPlanet, Rightworks(E2), Oracle Application Server (OAS).  ? Web servers: MS-IIS, Apache, Jrun, OAS, MS Personal Web Server.  ? Databases: SQL Server, Oracle, UDB, DB2, MySQL, MS-Access.  ? Languages: C#.NET, Java (POJO and EE), Python, Javascript, JQuery, Spring AOP/IoC/Batch/Struts Integration, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA, WSDL), C++, ANSI C, HTML, XML/XSL, MS-Access/VBA/Visual Basic, OWL, Flash CS5.5 ActionScript 3.0, Cobol II, CICS (TSO, File-Aid, CA-Intertest, Xpediter), Crystal Reports Print Engine (PE) API.  ? Automated testing tools: IBM Rational Manual Tester, IBM Rational Functional Tester, IBM Rational Performance Tester, Rational Robot, Quality Center, QA Wizard Pro.  ? Applications: Oracle Primavera Portfolio Management (OPPM).  ? Processes: Six Sigma, Lean Software, Agile, Scrum, Rational Unified Process, SEI, Endevor, Changeman, ServiceNow.