Sr. BI Consultant / Tech Lead (MSSQL / Power BI / MSBI / Web / SharePoint / Python / PowerShell) Sr. BI Consultant / Tech Lead (MSSQL / Power BI / MSBI / Web / SharePoint / <span class="hl">Python</span> / PowerShell) Power BI Consultant / Sr. Developer (w/ Azure, Power BI, NoSQL, SharePoint, .Net, Python, PowerShell, Web) Houston, TX Awarded, skilled and dedicated Sr.Power BI Consultant / Developer with strong experience taking ownership and delivering in any phase of End-To-End BI solutions. Specializing in: Advanced Data Structure Analysis and Design Power Query, M Language, MS SQL, SSAS, SSIS, Cloud, open-source and web technologies to meet needs of stakeholders efficiently and directly. Familiar with: Retail, Financial, Oil & Gas, Energy\Utility, Real Estate, Telecom and Health Care and Credit industries. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. BI Consultant / Tech Lead (MSSQL / Power BI / MSBI / Web / SharePoint / Python / PowerShell) A.D. Analytics, - Remote July 2016 to Present • Technology Lead / Architect of Power BI solutions, designing ETL, Data Extraction and Data-Wrangling needs for Fortune 100 Co’s in many sectors (Aerospace, Mfg. Healthcare, Telecom, Retail, Finance, Real-estate), Led tech architecture and implementation of tech. req’s for self-service analytics w/ Kimball and Inmon style, hybrid Dimensional / EDW Models, for Supply-Chain and Financial analytics rpts and dashboards.      • Created semantic models to perform traditional ETL like tasks in memory of Power BI desktop using M-Language (a.k.a. Get and Transform Data) for transforms. Scraping data from archived txt business cobol prn reports, with non-trivial parsing requirements in-memory analysis. Also exported these in-memory tables to SQL server with PowerShell / BCP to allow traditional SQL DB access to them.  Ease and  flexibility were jaw-dropping! Orders of magnitude different than traditional MS BI ETL toolset and the enabling a long sought goal of creating custom data connectors for Power BI.     • Responded to DB performance issues with collab. With App Team Lead, to implement query logging in SQL Server 2008 to isolate the cause of the perf. regression.  Implemented OQS solution for SQL 2008 from opensource project, that allowed better troubleshooting info and was easier to manage than traditional options. QueryStore was new to MSSQL 2015 / 17 timeframe, but recognizing the need, this little project seemed to offer better diagnostic info without the traditional manual admin overhead.   • Sourced complex SQL, Stored-Procedures Sr. SQL / BI Developer Home Depot April 2016 to July 2016 • Resolved a huge performance problem with key shipping performance metric written before my arrival. The metric provided a accurate estimate of Shipping Handling Days and was used to deliver a accurate Promised Date based series of metrics for shipping logistics management. The metric was implemented by a suite of SQL User Defined Function’s but prior to my tuning deteriorated so much at scale that it was unusable for the task. However once, I tuned it and included it in the nightly refresh everyone was happy.   • Brought data from diverse sources and formats (incl. NoSQL MongoDB) into warehouse. Integrated and added new functionality to datamart and SSRS reports.   • Maintained keen understanding of business requirements through meetings, personal contacts and scouring the code base. Kept good relationships and lines of communication with my customers, mgmt. and coworkers. Frequented talks and discussions on new tech. and found opportunities to collaborate and to share and learn with/from coworkers.   • Delivered varied data integrations into on-prem and Azure cloud data stores. Wrote Azure cloud deployments utilizing PowerShell scripts. Performed pre-post ETL job steps with Python and PowerShell scripting languages. Automated common tasks with PowerShell Analyzed and processed data with Python, R, and SQL Server with R Services. Integrated web based data through Python web-scraping jobs that I authored and scheduled to run pre-and-post ETL Jobs and steps.   • Wrote web scraping scripts utilizing Python’s BeautifulSoup4, Pandas and Blaze libraries for inclusion of key web data. Setup Jupyter Notebook server. Shared knowledge with team and learned from them as well. Technologies: MS SQL Server 2016-2008, SSIS, SSRS, GitHub Enterprise, TSQL Stored Procedures, Slack, Python, R, Jupyter Notebook, Big Data, NoSQL, MongoDB, DB2, Oracle PL SQL, Azure and AWS Cloud Services PowerPivot, PowerBI, DAX, MDX, Desired State Configuration Sr. BI / .Net / Web Developer Georgia-Pacific May 2015 to December 2015 • Lead developer supporting suite of projects related to SAP Product Cost Analytics for industrial paper mills. Tool support included: cost recipes and cost allocation modelling to infinite degrees of depth utilizing SAP’s Material Tree Hierarchies, Operational and Financial perspectives. Track cost variances from plan over time, forecasting and review   • Responsible for Extending and Maintaining a portfolio of 10 (.net, db, data model, ui, cubes, NoSQL and reporting) tools and applications for cost allocation, price analysis and price modelling and forecasting for plant mgmt. and cost analysts.  • Made insightful contributions to identifying and eradicating subtle insidious bugs through meticulous testing, communication with peers and business and debugging and troubleshooting.  • Completed tasks of understanding and being able to build and deploy all components of a suite (.net, db, data model, ui, cubes, and reporting) for cost accounting, modelling and forecasting apps for product pricing analysis.  • Worked with team to push-out and disseminate our practice and collaborative support of customer goals.  Technologies used: MS SQL Server 2014 BI stack (TSQL, MDX, SSAS, SSRS, NoSQL, MongoDB, Visual Studio, SSDT) Sr. BI Developer AIO Wireless June 2013 to May 2015 • Volunteered to take responsibility from BI Architect to get SSAS cube up, operational, tested and deployed.   • Troubleshot issues with measures and formulas that would throw errors.   • Worked with ETL developers to get source and reference data loaded correctly in the datamart to facilitate cube processing, unknown member definition   • Advanced testing and early warning notification when datamart load didn’t agree with source system through a auxiliary true-up process run following Cube reprocessing where Reports written against the OLTP source were programmatically compared with similar report from the OLAP (aggregated) datasource.   • Implemented approach to and converted hugely complex, monolithic and repetitive stored procedures being used by key green-field SSRS Daily Metrics report being sourced from OLTP database to OLAP cube. This approach efficiently surfaced multiple measures in a single MDX batch query making report development much more productive. Rather than the former way with TSQL OLTP approach which required meticulous copy paste and wasteful pattern of 1 TSQL batch per measure / periodicity.   • New stored procedures were much more maintainable and leveraged a linked server pointing to Cube for MDX query-ability from TSQL utilizing MDX, OpenQuery and temp tables to progressively build portions of the final dataset in stored procedures.   • The final dataset in the new stored procedures were in same format of prior OLTP based stored procedures only blazingly fast.   • Returning the same result-set as the former stored procedures allowed the Daily Report .RDL asset to be reused saving time and effort in this critical POC phase of the project.   Technologies used: MS SQL Server 2012 BI stack (TSQL, MDX, SSAS, SSRS, Visual Studio, SSDT),), NoSQL, MongoDB Sr. BI Developer Recall March 2013 to June 2013 Recall, Inc.  Performed implementation and break/fix analysis for Global Financial Dashboard Project utilizing PeopleSoft Financials backend. Mapped invoice revenue to warehouse location where operational costs existed. Added to cube calculations to create profitability analytic measures. The finished dashboard was done in PowerView and was the first to present a unified view of financial and operations for the company. PeopleSoft Financials sources included GL Billing Revenue info and financial hierarchies of GL Acct, Operating Unit, Business Unit and GL Trees. Data warehouse was 350GB, largest table contained 3.5 billion rows and used a hybrid Kimball / Inmon concept: Operational Data Stores in radiated layers were populated by ETL and the central Data Warehouse was populated by subsequent ETL moving from source to target from outlying mini-copies of the central ETL\DB machine from around the globe. Data Analytics resided in a massive partitioned SSAS 2012 cube with approximately 40 dimensions, 10 measures, 250 calculations, 24 subject areas, 3 perspectives and 35 roles (to implement security), complex calculations were performed in MDX script, scoping was used to provide date and time intelligent (MTD, TTM AVG, YoY) calculations. Quickly became a contributor to code-base despite its considerable size. Rose to meet the challenge of understanding a system that orchestrated data-movement between corporate and operations in 24 countries. Packages ran against 40 regional databases in 16 datacenters supporting inventory operations for 292 warehouses globally. Local ETL ran nightly on schedule from SQL agent and assembled data in a local staging ODS server in the datacenter, then corporate ETL would wake up and pull from remote using a follow-the-moon schedule. All ETL was done from a Master-Package architecture that was very generalized to be driven by meta-data for ETL execution point layer (Data Center ODS, Central ODS, Central DW or for replication of master-data from corporate). All databases were partitioned and ETL loads used partition swapping and index drop\creation. Technologies used: MS SQL 2012 - 2008 R2, TSQL, Stored Procedures, MS BI Stack (VS2012, SSMS, SSIS, SSRS, SharePoint 2010), BIDS Helper, MS Office Excel 2013, Power Pivot (v2), Power View, Power Shell, MDX, SharePoint, TFS, GIT, .NET (SQL CLR). BI Architect - Careerbuilder.com Careerbuilder.com October 2012 to February 2013 Evaluated architecture. Suggested improvements. Started Refactoring effort to move from Stored Procedure based Dimensional database load to 1st class ETL packages by migrating SQL batches to metadata based ETL package generation using BI Markup Language (BIML) templates I created. Templates replicated existing template being used by whole company but in BIML were dynamically generated on demand allowing for generation-time schema binding. Shared knowledge in open invitation talks which led architecture team to evaluate approaches as potential time-saving approaches to re-use authoritative information in reports in the operational system and shrink timelines for many needed ETL initiatives that required adding staff for the laborious task of creating ETL packages. Created PowerPivot and data mining models to gauge and predict potential leads and determine key influencers of successful sales. Created automated report validation test Bed in PowerShell and SSRS URL Access to perform regression tests on Dev. vs. Prod. Technologies used: MS SQL 2008 R2 - 2012 BI Stack (SSDT, SSMS, SSIS, SSRS, SharePoint 2010), BIDS Helper BI Markup Language (BIML), MS Office Excel 2010, Power Pivot (v1, v2), Power View, Power Shell, MDX, SharePoint, XSLT, XQuery, TFS, GIT, .NET, Subversion. BI Architect / DBA - RPC Business Information Services RPC, Inc January 2012 to October 2012 Lead implementation of a "Greenfield" Data Warehousing project setting standards, architecture, and tenets to deliver a self-service (Power Pivot / SharePoint / SSAS Multidimensional and Tabular), highly-productive (improved ETL productivity by 300%) and highly-agile (encapsulated common ETL features into easily editable VS2010 BIML ETL generation pattern language from codeplex) BI Platform. Performed estimation, planning and implementation to deliver application framework capable of fulfilling entire catalog of 50 analytic requests ranging from sizes of Small (20hrs) to Extra-Large (500+ hrs). Planned with managers to align initiatives with business needs, org's BI maturity level and schedule demands. Created first mass consumable analytics (cubes and Power Pivot workbook data sources) automating and simplifying analysts data gathering and reporting on Spend analysis from PeopleSoft ERP Financials -- PO, GL, Time Sheet. Convincingly saved approx. $110K building versus buying pricy and less compelling analytic solutions. Authored non-trivial DAX formulas to calculate depletion of Planned vs. Actual employee hours over time in a managers dashboard -- accurate over all levels of time (Y/M/Q/D). Implemented and sped Cube \ DW versioning, processing, deployment and operations with Powershell Subversion, AMO, SMO and SQLPSX. Maintained BI SharePoint Team Site & internal blog to promote awareness, collaboration and organizational maturity regarding BI initiatives and topics. Held weekly meetings with IT Executive Management to update status and formulate BI strategy. Technologies used: MS SQL 2012 BI Stack (SSDT, SSMS, SSIS, SSRS, SharePoint 2010, MS Office Excel 2010, PowerPivot v2, PowerView) Power Shell, MDX, SharePoint, Subversion, BIDS Helper BI Markup Language (BIML), PeopleSoft ERP. Sr. BI Developer / Architect - Telecom Call Center Nat'l Support A T & T December 2009 to January 2012 Responsible for DBA Admin/ETL/Reporting operations for five data warehouses serving agent performance scorecard reports for national center management user base. Ported 32bit prod env to 64bit increasing performance by 400%. Mentored others in Subversion, SSAS, SSIS, SSRS and C#. Performed skilled data analysis and validation of ETL flows and data marts. Increased productivity by automating configurations\mgmt with Powershell. Replaced Access 2K source with codeplex SharePoint list component. Maintained .NET Report Extension DLL's. Technologies used: ProClarity, Tableau, Oracle, Teradata, DB2, MS SQL '05 - '08 R2 (SSIS, SSRS and SSAS), MDX, Powershell, SharePoint, Javascript, Silverlight, Subversion, Excel. BI Developer - Tennessee Long Term Care Amerigroup, Inc August 2009 to December 2009 Developed operational reports and data marts on 3 person team. Mentored usage of subversion. Created SSRS report templates. Analyzed data assets and refined criteria with Bus. Analyst. Spent 70-80% of my day analyzing schemas and developing in BIDS, Oracle and MSSQL. Sources Utilized: flat files, Claims (MSSQL 400 tables) and Provider Utilization Mgmt. (Oracle 1300 tables). Leveraged powershell automation to shorten development iterations. Technologies used: Oracle, Toad, MS SQL 2005 BI Stack (BIDS, SSMS, SSIS, SSRS, SharePoint) MS Office 2007 (Excel, Access and VBA) C#, MDX, SharePoint, Subversion. BI Developer Money Management Int'l May 2009 to August 2009 MMI BI System  Extended VLDB\Cube (1TB): Windows 64Bit, ETL, Query Optimization. SSRS Report Writing. Many schemas, part Inmon (ODS) and Kimball methodologies. Tuned Cube/MDX queries. Technologies include: MS SQL 2008 BI Stack (SSMS, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, SharePoint, and Excel), PowerShell, C#, MDX, SharePoint), Subversion SSIS Developer - Chevron Technical Portal Avanade August 2008 to April 2009 Lead SSIS and SSAS developer on SCRUM run team to deliver SharePoint portal to integrate disparate tools & data for drilling and production engineers. Created packages sourcing data from Web Services and many DB back ends into data mart. Authored custom SSIS component turning web service call into SSIS buffer Dataset. Refined patterns with Data Architect during sprints. Provided support in SSAS to other teams. Technologies include: MS SQL 2005 BI Stack (SSIS, SSAS, ProClarity, and Excel), Oracle 9i, PL\SQL, TOAD, PowerShell, C#, MDX, WCF, SharePoint, and IIS. BI Developer / DBA -- Sales Data Warehouse Mattress Firm Inc July 2007 to July 2008 Implemented partitioning to drop cube refresh time from 6hrs to 30min. Implemented SQL attribute-relationships to take MDX calcs of Same Store metrics to next level. Implemented MDX calculations to normalize Same Store Sales measures skewed when comparing open to closed periods to equi-length time frames - beyond parallel period functionality. Created XQuery SSIS component and C# .Net extensions for calling REST-ful web-services exposing data mart and SSRS. Technologies Used: MS SQL 2005 BI Stack (SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, ProClarity, Excel), Oracle PL\SQL, PowerShell, C#, XML+XQuery+XSL, MDX, MS Patterns and Practices frameworks. Net developer El Paso Energy April 2005 to April 2007 Maintained and developed Asp.Net screens following SDLC methodology for large application with complex in-house framework. Automated tests with Ruby IE library. SQL performance tuning. Wrote SQL CLR Regex component. Technologies used: Asp.Net, C#, MS SQL 2005 & 2000, MS Patterns and Practices frameworks, Remoting. Ruby/WATIR, JavaScript, SSIS, SQL CLR. Sr. BI Developer Calpine, Inc May 2004 to November 2004 Meter Data Acquisition System Programmer/Analyst Global Santa Fe, Inc November 2003 to January 2004 Web Developer Diverse Networks, Inc March 2003 to May 2003 Sr. BI Developer UBS Warburg Energy February 2001 to January 2003 Education Management Baker College of Business - Muskegon, MI Skills Full MS SQL Server BI Stack (8 years), PowerBI (3 years), .Net / C# (8 years), ASP.Net (4 years), Javascript (3 years), MS SQL Server 2016-2000 (10+ years), MS SQL Analysis Services / OLAP (MDX) (6 years), MS SQL Analysis Services / Tabular (DAX) / PowerPivot (3 years), Scripting languages (Perl/Python/shell/ruby//PowerShell) (6 years), Agile (4 years), Linux / Unix (5 years), MacOS (Less than 1 year), Oracle PL\SQL (3 years), Teradata (2 years), Excel / VBA (8 years), Ruby (1 year), XML (5 years), XSLT (3 years), XQUERY (1 year), DB2 (2 years), Peoplesoft (2 years), SSIS (5 years), SSRS (3 years), Source Control (Git, SVN, TFS} (5 years), DW Modeling (Kimball. Inmon) (10+ years), DBA (2 years), Sharepoint (1 year), BigData (3 years), Python (1 year), NoSQL (MongoDB) (1 year), Databases (10+ years), Data Analysis (8 years), Data Mining (2 years), XSL (10+ years), SSAS (DAX, MDX, Modelling, Perf. Tuning) Mult-Dimensional and In-Memory Tabular (10+ years), POWER BI DESKTOP / SERVER / PREMIUM (5 years), POWER QUERY / M-FUNCTIONAL PROGRAMMING, MASHUP , MODELLING ETL (5 years), Sql Server (10+ years) Groups Atlanta BI Users Group (MDF) July 2013 to Present Oracle User Group July 2013 to Present