Contract Developer Contract <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Frisco, TX Full lifecycle experience in requirements analysis, software design, implementation and support; customer and vendor relationship management; user interface design concepts Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Contract Developer Southwest Airlines - Dallas, TX February 2015 to March 2017 • Developed Junit tests for testing NetIQ policies in NetIQ Identity Vault.  • Developed java apps utilizing LDAP calls for cleaning up data issues in Identity Vault.  • Participated in upgrading Identity Vault from 3.7 to 4.1 involving 30 drivers.  • Upgraded spring services to use latest company framework.  • Java 1.8, Oracle, Eclipse, STS 3.8, Maven, SVN, JUnit, Clearcase, Identity Vault, iManager, NetIQ Designer, LDAP, Apache Studio, ServiceNow Contract Java, PL/SQL Developer Verizon Wireless - San Diego, CA July 2014 to December 2014 Developed Junit tests and db scripts for testing a database migration effort going from MS SQLServer to Oracle. These tests were required to run against SQLServer and Oracle to help determine the efficacy of the migration. We used hibernate and JdbcTemplate for the data provisioning and testing.  • Rewrote and enhanced stored procedures and indexes for Oracle efficiency.  • Responsible for maintaining database consistency across the QA and development databases by using Redgate to compare and migrate changes between the databases and SVN.  • Java 1.6, Oracle, Eclipse, Hibernate, Spring, Tomcat, Redgate, Maven, SVN, JUnit, Redhat linux Contract Java Developer Rent-A-Center - Plano, TX March 2012 to April 2014 Worked on a Scrum team implementing SOAP web services to support the next generation of the POS system.  • Developed REST services using Selenium to screen scrape RAC's Epay site to provide the same functionality without using the browser.  • Developed a POC web app using JSP, Bootstrap, JQuery, Javascript, CSS, HTML, and Spring MVC  • Deployed services and web app to Tomcat running on a Redhat linux server.  • Rewrote major functionality of a new POS system written in Java/Swing using Hibernate and Spring. Responsible for screen redesign, look and feel, functionality rearchitecture, defect analysis and resolution, training new hires in the architecture, and interviewing candidates.  • SVN was used for source control utilizing continuous integration with Jenkins.  • Wrote all unit tests in JUnit, Easymock, and Mockito.  • Java 1.6, Swing, Oracle, Eclipse, Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC, Tomcat, CXF, Maven, Jenkins, SVN, Selenium, JUnit, Easymock, Mockito, Bootstrap, Javascript, JQuery, CSS, HTML, Redhat linux Lead Application Architect / Technology Driver The Dallas Morning News - Dallas, TX May 2004 to March 2012 Lead engineer for the web-based self-serve side of our classified ad order system (http://placeads.dallasnews.com utilizing Java, JSP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, Oracle, AdbaseE), and technical lead for integrating our order entry system with Real Media's OAS platform  • Application architect for a datacenter relocation  • Technology lead for managing, architecting and implementing all feature enhancements and bug fixes for Belo's online ad order entry, product tracking, and billing system - the Insertion Order (IO) system, ensuring system compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley, utilizing J2EE, JSP, Javascript, HTML, CSS, and Oracle. Maintained the app server by installing and/or upgrading Java, Resin 3.0, and Oracle on Redhat linux servers and making all necessary code changes for the IO system to run under Oracle 11g.  • Managed vendor relationships, product specifications, implementations, and customer relationships between Belo Technology, Sales, Audience Development, and Finance departments and Belo's 19 television stations and three newspapers for employment products in JobCenter (AppVault, Careersite, Careercast, Yahoo! Hotjobs), real estate products in HomeCenter (Homescape, Morris, BHI), and Consumer Classified products for Self-Service advertising (IPIX, ADPay, AdStar, Pet Adoptions).    • Java 1.3 - 1.6, J2EE, Resin, Tomcat, Redhat linux, Apache, JBoss, JDBC, JSP, JQuery, SQL, Oracle 11g, MySQL, HTML, CSS, SQL Server, Javascript, Ajax, CVS, Subversion Contract Java Developer Belo Interactive - Dallas, TX January 2003 to April 2004 Added a new tool library (screens, database tables, server side functions) to Belo's main CMS, Velocit, written in Java using Swing and RMI. I also improved the functionality of the main interface by adding hotkeys and improving the usability of the custom HTML editor.  • Implemented bug fixes and enhancements to the Insertion Order (IO) system. This system encompassed Order Entry, Product Tracking, Billing, Pacing, and Revenue Analysis for all online orders for Belo. Added new functionality to begin the process of integrating IO's product tracking functions with OAS (RealMedia's ad delivery system) and Tacoda's user profiling system.  • Java 1.3, Forte, Swing, RMI, JSP, JDBC, Oracle 8i, HTML, SQL Server, javascript Contract Java Developer Intelesystems - Plano, TX March 2001 to December 2002 Assumed control of a Java / Swing client/server application that was almost finished but in need of enhancements for a complete delivery. The RMI server handled all MySQL database transactions using JDBC. Fixed bugs and redesigned and added more functionality including HTML reports, data import functions, and preference options. I also modified the application to support MSSql Server.  • Java 1.4, Swing, RMI, JDBC, Oracle 8i, MySQL, HTML, SQL Server Contract Python Developer Intelesystems - Lewisville, TX September 2001 to January 2002 10/2002 - 11/2002    • Developed Python scripts and SQL scripts to support Exolink's Exotran system for translating energy transaction XML data passed between Exolink clients and ERCOT.  • Python, CVS, XML, SQL, Oracle Web Developer Texas Techies - Plano, TX November 2000 to March 2001 Maintained and enhanced a web application to support sales representatives across the world. It was written in HTML, VBScript and Javascript using ASP. Company data such as accounts receivable, open orders, stock availability, etc, was transferred via FTP to the web server. The web server stored that data in an MS Access database. A message board was added so that management could broadcast messages to the reps without using email. Also created the graphics and web page for Texas Techies.  • Visual Interdev, ASP, VBScript, HTML, MS Access Developer Piranha Inc - Dallas, TX January 2000 to November 2000 Developed a Visual C++ / MFC dialog application to act as a GUI for Piranha's data compression codec. Install Shield was used to create the installation executable for Piranha Byte and the Piranha Stream video streaming codec.  • I worked on an analysis tool for Piranha Byte's archive file format. This tool would display the contents of the archive file and it's headers. I used CodeWarrior to develop this tool in Java because the tool had to run on the Windows, Linux, and Macintosh operating systems.  • Windows 2000/98, Visual C++, MFC, Java, Swing Contract CorVision, C, VC++ Developer, Configuration Manager MCI - Richardson, TX September 1993 to November 1999 Developed a Visual C++ / DCOM / ATL MDI client and MTS / ODBC server to maintain MCI's testcase information in an Oracle database.  • Developed a Visual C++ / MFC MDI client that interfaced with a RDB database server on a VMS platform via TCP/IP sockets and displayed switch billing data and testcase data.  • Maintained and enhanced a Visual C++ DLL to decode ISUP signalling messages (SS7, ISDN, CCITT, TUP) based on the spec stored in the database. I also developed a VC++/MFC application that maintained these signalling specs. The service was written in VC++ using MFC, ODBC, and a predefined socket library.  • Developed a Visual C++ / Pro*C NT service to store testcase data in the new Oracle database.  • Maintained and enhanced MCI's automated client/server call processing platform for testing telephone switch software releases using CorVision, VAX C, DECMessageQ, and Rdb.  • Configuration Manager and lead support developer for the automation platform after its transition from Reston to Richardson.  • Used CMS and MMS for all code configuration management.  • Windows NT/98/95, Alpha, VMS, Visual C++, MFC, VAX C, Oracle, Pro*C, DEC Rdb, SQL, CorVision, CMS, MMS Contract System Administrator / DBA CCC Inc - Chicago, IL March 1993 to September 1993 Configured SparcServers  • Installed Sybase, established devices, logins, defined standards. and created test databases for users  • Trained users in Unix and SQL Contract Developer / Project Leader Navistar International Inc - Chicago, IL December 1992 to March 1993 Trained support personnel in the use of CorVision (a 4GL CASE tool), SQL, Data Modeling, and the functionality of current CorVision applications.  • Used VAX Document and VAX Tpu to create a documentation generator for the existing CorVision applications.  • VAX (VMS), VAX C, CorVision (Case), DEC Rdb, SQL Senior Software Engineer / DBA Texas Instruments / Toppan Printronics USA Inc - Dallas, TX May 1988 to November 1992 Assisted in the development of and maintained a Product Tracking System and On-Line Forms System on a DEC VAX Cluster using CorVision (a 4GL CASE tool), Pascal, and RDB.  • Created a documentation generator using VAX TPU that extracted database and application information from metadata and formatted it for inclusion into the system and user documentation.  • Maintained an accounting application written with CorVision  • Created, maintained and tuned the RDB databases, providing system support with software  • Trained personnel to use both applications  • Assisted in operating system maintenance  • VAX (VMS), CorVision (4GL CASE tool), DEC Rdb, RDO, VAX Pascal, VAX TPU Education B.S. in Computer Science Texas A&M University Skills Java (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SVN (5 years), HTML (8 years), CSS (8 years), Javascript (5 years), Scrum (4 years), Databases (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills    • Technology Director, Lead Application Architect, Lead Developer  • JAVA (J2EE, JSP, JDBC, SWING, RMI), Hibernate, Spring, JUnit, REST, SOAP, Selenium, Tomcat, Resin, JBoss, HTML, CSS, SQL, Javascript, JQuery, VC++, MFC, C, Pro*C,  • Maven, Jenkins, Sonar, SVN, CVS  • Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, MS Access, VAX RDB  • Linux, Windows, VMS, Alpha (Unix), SUN Sparc (Unix)