Sr Software Engineer Sr Software Engineer Software Engineer Sunnyvale, CA Looking for a permanent fulltime opportunity with career growth option to evolve as an architect and into technical product management Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Software Engineer Google Via Etouch Inc - Mountain View, CA April 2016 to Present Working on Spectrum Access Protocol client spec implementation using C99, Python, Go, Google Appengine Sr Software Engineer Yahoo! via Mindlance - Sunnyvale, CA May 2015 to April 2016 Took on various functions with the goal of separating Yahoo Small Business into a new spinoff "Aabaco Small business", also known as "Luminate". Worked on Unix/C++, PHP, Shell. Python/PHP Developer Zonar Systems Via Aditi Technologies - Seattle, WA August 2014 to February 2015 Zonar is one of the foremost companies in the fleet asset management space. It provides a hardware and software solution for fleet management to meet goals such as asset tracking, vehicle health monitoring, compliance with regulatory requirements, driver verification, etc.    Accomplishments:  - As part of the team in charge of comprehensive system redesign  o Developed proof of concept app using Python Cubes  o Developed backend elements to support UI/UX  - As part of legacy app dev team  o Resolved issues with UI using Javascript/JQuery  o Worked on reports involving calls to PGPLSQL (Postgres) stored procedures  o Worked on issues with PHP codebase  o Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra  - Used Github repositories    Environment: CentOs 6.5, Apache, Javascript/JQuery, Python, Cassandra, postgres 9.1, PHP/Zend Framework, git, Agile/Scrum C++ Developer Bloomberg Via Delta Intl. Inc - New York, NY May 2014 to August 2014 Bloomberg is a prominent B2B provider of financial services, besides having a significant presence in media and news, analysis and a host of related activities. In Bloomberg I am a member of the TOMS (Trade Order Management System) R&D division, which is undertaking major innovative projects to help define the marketplace of the future    Accomplishments:  - Learning the Bloomberg Terminal environment, gamut of proprietary tools like the o RAPID environment (for Bloomberg Console development)  o Bloomberg Console - practically all work carried out through this  o Processes, procedures and tools  o Backend environment setup. System integration with front-end. Code-Gen. Source Controls.  o Database interfaces and methodology of access  - Design and development of end-to-end solution, involving Javascript, C++/STL and SQLite, providing feature to new type of client to manage their access to Bloomberg Terminal  - Design and development of de-normalized buffer/cache to serve external system and sync content from 3 database tables, using C++/STL, SQLite, XML  - Requirements gathering for Fixed Income Deal processing system for Canadian exchange    Environment: Unix/C++/STL, Javascript Sr. Applications Porting Consultant Endurance Via AB Star Group Inc - Redwood City, CA September 2013 to February 2014 Endurance is in the retail webspace business and provides tools to small business owners to create and maintain full-featured websites. As a member of the Database Team I was involved in the key project of moving the entire code-base from an Oracle backend to one based on MySQL.  Responsibilities:  • Gather requirements pertaining to the scope and scale of the work involved  • Carried out extensive searches throughout the code base, consisting of VC++, Java, Hibernate, MyBatis/iBatis, SOAP Server/client, Email setup sources, listing out oracle-dependent syntax  • Used Unix (cygwin-based) tools such as grep, sed to:  o Help create search and replacement patterns.  o Use patterns to do the search and replacements  o Verify the changes  o Check out and maintain versions from Perforce (Source control)  • Solved problems with translations of stored procedures, and calls to stored procedures from VC++, Java and the XML-based technologies (Hibernate and MyBatis)  • Rework of SQL-generating code, sometimes involving complex logic  • Helped in optimizing queries, set connection parameters, translate cursor-types, troubleshoot bugs along the way  • Used several tools including MySQL Workbench, Oracle Developer, Citrix, JIRA, Perforce, etc. Extensively worked in Windows/IIS/VC++/Eclipse environments and several proprietary tools  • Pls Refer www.homestead.com to have a glimpse of the product.    Environment: VC++, Java, XML, Hibernate/MyBatis, Oracle 11g, MySQL, Perforce Sr. Python Dev Engineer Fiserv Via AB Star Group Inc - Sunnyvale, CA May 2013 to August 2013 Fiserv infrastructure consists of large and complex cluster of servers. A suitable tool was needed to keep tab on the performance of various IO operations and produce summary suitable for presentation  Responsibilities:  • Upgrade and expand functionality of several perl and shell scripts using Python  • Conceptualize, Design, develop tool in python to o Parse log files and export contents to ElasticSearch repo via RESTful interface  o Produce reports on various timeframes  o Present the information on browser with jQuery and Javascript  • Used DJango framework to deploy backend  • Worked on ElasticSearch set-up/config.  • Designed schema for ElasticSearch.  • Wrote shell script for on-boarding old log files into Elasticsearch  • Presented and demonstrated use of scripts    Environment: Python, DJango, Perl, RHEL/CentOs, ElasticSearch, Lucene, SVN, Javascript, jquery Sr C++ Dev Engineer Etrade Financials Via AB Star Group Inc - Menlo Park, CA September 2011 to April 2013 As a member of the Retail Technology group I was involved in projects for modernizing the integrated system handling the IPO's (Initial public offerings), and others  Responsibilities:  • Wrote various API's for servicing GUI, SOA and FastCGI/RESTful interface data needs using C++, connecting to Sybase  • Wrote shell script to generate XML requests from header files, recognizing integer and string data types and generating dummy data. Used curl to forward the XML requests to server for unit testing  • In the Automated Investment Plan project, wrote batch scripts in Perl to:  o Access user accounts and block funds in advance for making stock purchases on predetermined schedule.  o Generate alerts in cases of insufficient funds, transaction failures and other errors  o Manage Investment Plan changes like Initiation, suspension, termination etc.  o Update various user statuses for the "Automatic Investment Plan" feature, connecting to Oracle, Sybase, and making Xml/SOAP calls to Service Oriented Architecture API's  • Updated documentation in the Wiki. Also reviewed requirements and test documents.  • Used several tools including SVN, Mercury (Quality control), ADP, Citrix, etc. Extensively worked on Unix (Redhat/CentOs) environment and several build/release tools proprietary and open source  Environment: C++, SOA, Perl, RHEL/CentOs, Oracle 11g, Sybase 12, 15, SVN C/ Python Dev Engineer Networks In Motion Via Svam Intl. Inc - Aliso Viejo, CA September 2009 to September 2011 Worked as a member of the Server Delivery group, which has the responsibility of executing patches to the Server Software  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for implementing Place Messaging  • Wrote batch scripts in Python to pull in data for various feeds such as Point of Interests (POI), Movie and showtimes, Traffic incidents, etc. Used and wrote custom XML parsers  • Support role for several customization tasks for new phones  • Worked on several bugs in the Gokivo System. Gokivo product is the Base code for the navigation systems provided to every client, including Verizon, MetroPCS and devices like the iPhone  • Undertook several integration and system testing tasks in the process of compiling software patches  • Ported batch scripts to use object oriented codebase  • Was present as standby during several production deployments  • Used Several Open Source tools for Code control, bug control, etc.    Environment: Python, RHEL, Oracle 11g, Perforce Java Web Programmer Wells Fargo Via Svam Intl. Inc - Des Moines, IA December 2008 to June 2009 Was a member of the Online Fulfillment Process Development team at Wells Fargo based on a JEE framework.  Responsibilities:  • Used Yahoo UI API v 2.6 and XML to develop GUI elements within the context of the Lombardi framework  • Implemented Data Retrieval via Ajax using Hibernate Query Language.  • Wrote several screens relating to the Home Loan processing system, integrating Lombardi, Rhino Javascript, Oracle Database calls and Hibernate/Spring for Object oriented data access  • Wrote utility program to extract data from Lombardi XML structures for documentation purpose  • Researching the Business Process expressed in the tool being used - Lombardi Teamworks.    Environment: Java/Javascript, Lombardi Teamworks 6.1, Yahoo UI API 2.6, SVN 1.5.0, MVN 2.0.8, Oracle 10.2.0.1, DBVisualizer 6.5, Eclipse, JSP, JBoss 4.0.5, XML/XSL/XSLT, SQL, HTML, JSON, AJAX    List of projects more than 5 years ago Sr. Software Engineer NY Dept of Health Via Svam Intl. Inc - Albany, NY October 2007 to November 2008 Modernize Nursing Homes tracking system to use a Java Swing client, from the present PowerBuilder (Sybase DB) Design, development MEDCO - Somerset, NJ January 2007 to September 2007 documentation of several web-site features involving end-to-end work with C++/STL, XML, Javascript, JSON, Messaging and Database (Oracle) Sr. Software Engineer NASD - Rockville, MD June 2006 to December 2006 Maintenance tasks relating to feeds from Municipal Bonds and Corporate stocks, using Java, Spring systems with XML (Oracle) Sr. Software Engineer JP Morgan & Co - Houston, TX October 2005 to May 2006 maintenance of existing and new feed handling code using C++/STL, Perl, and Unix Shell scripting, with Oracle Database backend Design and development Scientific Atlanta India Technology Pvt Ltd January 2004 to August 2005 of 3 tier systems using JSP, SOAP, C++/STL, Multi-threading and synchronization for System Performance monitoring and reporting Sr. Software Engineer Integra Microsystems Pvt - Bangalore, Karnataka September 2000 to January 2004 ltd Bangalore, India  • Accomplished several projects involving Systems (C/C++), Applications (VC++/VB), Web (FastCGI/C), Networking (TCP/IP) and Telecom (Large scale C++) projects Education MCA Madurai Kamaraj University 2011 B.Com Mumbai University 1995 Additional Information • Senior C/C++ Developer with more than 13 years' experience in Object Oriented Design and Development of Financial/Banking/Pharma/Government applications using C/C++, Java in the UNIX (Sun Solaris, HP UNIX) and Windows and SOA environments.    • Executed web-based projects involving the use of Apache, Tomcat, and other Web/Application servers with FastCGI, JSP and ASP.    • Expertise in problem solving    • Other areas worked on -- Java Swing, Eclipse, jtds, JNI, Web Services, AJAX, XML/XSL/XSLT, SOAP, Java Script, PVCS, CVS, Multithreading, Unix/Windows Internals, Socket Programming, Unix IPC, STL, SNMP, Rogue Wave, Shell and Perl scripting, Eclipse, Pro*C, Oracle 9i/8i, Sybase 12/11 and Informix.    • Extensive experience using tools like Vantive, Hummingbird Exceed, vi/m editor, CVS, nmake and Citrix.    • Excellent communication skills.    Skills:    Languages C, C++, Core Java, Javascript, VC++, VB, JSP, ASP, PHP, Shell Scripting, CGI, Network Programming (TCP/IP, UDP), assembly (8086).    Protocols TCP/IP, FTP, Mail and several networking protocols.    Middleware XML, XSLT, XPATH SOAP, WSDL, Spring, Hibernate, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)    Web/App Servers Tomcat, Apache, IIS, Websphere, JBOSS    Operating Systems UNIX (Sun; Red Hat, HP-UX, irix), Windows (various versions)    Databases Sybase, Oracle, Ms Access/SQL Server, Informix, MySQL, ObjectStore.    Debugging dbx, gdb, Visual Studio, Sun studio, Eclipse, log4j    IDEs & other tools MS Visual Studio, MFC, COM, WinSock, Eclipse, NetBeans, JCreator, Sun Studio, Hummingbird Exceed, Makefiles (make), ANT (build tool), Maven, Vantive, Citrix, PVCS, CVS, Subversion (SVN), VSS, InstallShield, Crystal Reports, vi editor    Libraries & APIs: STL, Boost, Roguewave, Win32 API's and UNIX system calls, Sybase Open Client Library, jtds, log4j, Swing, SNMP, Unix IPC (Shared memory, Mutex / Semaphores, Multithreading).    Other: V Process model, Agile/Scrum, Iterative model, Design Patterns, PCMCIA, FAT12 file system