Product Manager Product Manager Product Manager - iPayables Provo, UT 15+ years managing in software industry. Responsible for delivering 200+ solutions. Positive, Personable and uplifting cheerful smile. BETTER QUALITY and QUICKER RELEASE. MBA.    Experience: (Gives me the edge)  • Customer care experience - Gives me insight into how the customers use product.  • Localization experience - Insight to doing the products in other languages  • QA - Vital to successfully ship quality product.  • Lead developer - Have worked in many coding languages. Know how the developer might code. Work Experience Product Manager iPayables 2014 to Present Managed Multiple Accounts (Novell, Kroger, FedEx, AA, Yum )  • Resolve customer issue creating database solutions. (SQL deployment to Dev, SIT & UAT)  • Orchestrate development efforts for timely delivery to customers. Lead and mentored Development and QA teams Vivint 2012 to 2013 2012 - 2013  Managed Multiple Teams (Jira, GIT)  • Stepped in to save customers. People satisfaction is what I do.  • Coordinated with 7 VP's completing requested prioritized task from each with changes often.  • Lead and mentored Development and QA teams.  • Gathered requirement creating positive communication with team and Customer. Service Repair Solutions 2011 to 2012 75%. (Microsoft Project, iPhone/iPad, Android)  • Implemented creative solution in 1 sprint, task that was believed to be an unsolvable concern.  • Increased 500% team's ability to ship multiple web products in agile environment.  • Reduced development time / mock-ups and clear design documents.  • Coordinated motivated and managed international team (Uruguay) Sr. QA Lead for Web product AtTask 2010 to 2011 Product Management software. (GIT, Selenium, C#)  • Interviewed and hired QA Engineers.  • Trained team on testing skills creating quality test to deliver quality products.  • Creating regression test after finding and fixing bugs. Director Public Affairs and Student Placement Program Advisors 2010 to 2010 10 departments, 40 Program Advisors)  Lead Instructor Business/Accounting  (9 teachers, 62 students, 9 PA) Lumension 2008 to 2010 Patch and Remediation Company. Company moved back to Arizona. (Automation test harness, Basic, C, C++, C#, Microsoft Project, JavaScript, Selenium, Multiple browsers, Multiple Microsoft OS's)  • Work closely with Product Management/Architecture/Development and QA teams to ensure clear communications and the flow of information.  • Writing Technical Documents for management and training purposes.  • Creating Business requirement documents user friendly for the stakeholders.  • Designed metrics to demonstrate status of development and testing efforts. Use corp. wide.  • Agile environment, defining and implementing "Scrum" process.  • Generating mock-ups and Cleaned up Design documents with Project Management team.  • Managed automated test using C, C++, C#, JavaScript, VB script and Selenium.  • Demonstrated the simplicity of newly designed automation engine to upper management. On-line Consultant HealthWays 2007 to 2009 Internet Health knowledge database. Company moved East coast. Called me back to help complete project.  Hand picked to write SOW's MRD's and TRD's docs by and for development team  • Champion clear communication between the business and development of requirements.  * Solutions - Documents, mocked up screen displays, meetings, collaboration.  * Clear articulation of requirements.  * Narrowed bug description to point developers fixed in minutes rather than days.  * Took symptoms of bugs and found real source of issue.  * Able to have crucial conversations that facilitate safe communications.  • Created a pattern of detailed descriptions for facilitation of quicker fixes to code.  • Known for follow up and follow through. Hand picked Teksystems 2006 to 2007 to write MRD's docs by and for development team  • Cut development efforts down 2 months by expert gathering of requirement documents.  • Created design documents that the developers could read and follow. Quicker code release.  Managed Multiple Projects (JIRA)  • Over see human resources processes: employee review, morale, mentor and promotion.  • Successfully moved an employee from probationary status to exemplary employee. In-house automation test harness Python, Multiple OS's Symantec 2004 to 2006 2004 - 2006  Security Company. Closed 5 plants in the U.S.A. to move operations to India. (In-house automation test harness Python, Multiple OS's)  (2 US, 4 India)  • Hired because of technical ability to write Automation test.  • Taught team how to write automation scripts after doing manual testing.  • Fixed poorly created incomplete automation test. Complete technical knowledge helped.  • Worked closely with developer to design accurate regression testing (white box testing).  • Found bugs because of customer service, development and localization experience.  • Enthusiastically facilitated team India (time zone, lang. and culture), training and support.  • Managed many project teams, increasing productivity, knowledge and safety.  • Accepted side projects helping the company excel in productivity. Developer - Team Lead (4) Provo College 2001 to 2004 2001-2004  Private Specialty College.  • Confidently contacted community leaders / business owners creating interest in college.  • Created policy documents to establish policy, procedures and expectations.  • Got 2 departments accredited for the first time in school history.  • Coordinated with other departments in establishing and carrying out responsibilities.  • Presented recommendations for improvement to the board. Executed on those designs.  • Created cost-control reports.  • Called upon numerous times to teach difficult classes when the instructor did not show.  • Created course description, syllabus, hired/let go teachers, and chose text for classes.    Developer - Team Lead (4) iLumin Corporation 2000 to 2001 Legally signing of documents on-line. Company closed up shop. Called me back after mass lay off to help complete last project.  (Java, JavaScript, css, Tomcat, GIT)  • Completed assigned tasks ahead of schedule even after receiving a shortened delivery date.  • Volunteered to take over teammate assignments when they suddenly took leave. Completed personal work and Co-workers work on time! Developer Metastorm 1996 to 2000 1996-2000  Workflow solutions (Spin off of WordPerfect). Company moved to Maryland. (C++, SQL) Continually requesting me back  • Creatively developed solutions saved significant time for accurate testing and support.  • Managed and coordinated a team effort that updated and enhanced code with UK office.  • Internationalized (localized) our C++ core code.  • Created code that facilitated customer service and testing efforts because of experience.  • Learned then created installs of core product as well as special customer applications.  • Novell insisted that their installs be done in a similar way that I created.    Developer  QA Manager (6) Assembler, C, C ALL 1986 to 1996 Unix systems, Windows, Mac, Atari, Commodore)  • Solely created query interface and engine for InForms Macintosh product.  • Wrote GroupWise core code and Macintosh specific code. Technically able to do both.  • Fixed 2 bugs / enhancements per day.  • Took "misfits" made best testing team. Others couldn't work with these brilliant individuals.  • Asked often to find hard defects that other teams could not nail down.  • First tester allowed debugging the code to find problem areas. (White box testing)  • Not only found code defects but suggested appropriate code fix. Education M.B.A. in Human Resource Management U of Phoenix - Provo, UT Additional Information Programming skills: C#, JavaScript, Selenium, VB, Python, Java, C++, C, HTML and SQL  Multi-platform experience: Mobile Devices: iPhone, iPad, Android, Tablet, VM, Mac, Windows, Unix  Localized products in 12+ foreign languages: Fluent Spanish