Python Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Full Stack Developer - US Global Mail • Around 5 years working experience in Programming languages like python,  java, ruby, JavaScript.  • Around 3+ years of software experience in Analysis, Design, Development of  web applications using python frameworks Django, Flask.  • Around 2+ years working experience in cloud services like AWS and Build  tools like Jenkins, Maven.  • Experience using python libraries including Numpy, Pandas, Scipy,  Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Pickle and Beautiful Soup during the  software lifecycle development.  • Excellent Knowledge on using Python Deep learning library Scikit-Learn and  Scipy machine learning libraries for python.  • Experience with Front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap,  jQuery, Angular and Angular 2.  • Extensive Experience in Analysis, designing and developing web based  applications and client/server application using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery,  Ajax, Angular, Python and java.  • Experience working with relational databases including MySQL, Oracle,  PostgreSQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB.  • Experience in developing applications with SOAP and REST web services.  • Experience Developing RESTAPI's Using Swagger and nodeJs.  • Experience in developing applications using LAMP, WAMP application stack.  • Experience writing Sub Queries and working with features like Cursors,  Triggers, Procedures, Functions relational databases.  • Experience in Unit Testing, Integration Testing and Load Testing using  libraries like Pytest, unit test, mock and nose.  • Experience working with the version control systems like SVN, GIT.  • In depth knowledge in Creating, managing and deploying applications using  container Engine like Docker.  • Experience deploying multi-container python based docker applications using  docker compose.  • Experience building, maintaining and deploying Docker based images on  enterprise scale AWS Elastic Container Service.  • Excellent understanding of continuous integrations and continuous  delivery pipeline and its implementation using Jenkins as well as AWS  Code Pipeline.  • Experience in building Virtual Private Cloud and restricting access using  NACL and Security Groups  • 1 year experience in creating server less web application using AWS  services like Lambda, DynamoDB, API Gateway, S3, Cognito.  • 2+ year experience in writing Hadoop MapReduce jobs, Apache Pig Scripts  and Apache Spark jobs in both python and java.  • Experience in managing and reviewing Hadoop Log files using FLUME and  Kafka.  • Efficient in working with Hive data warehouse tool creating tables, data  distributing by implementing Partitioning and Bucketing strategy, writing and  optimizing the HiveQL queries.  • Extending HIVE and PIG core functionality by using custom User Define  Function's (UDF), User Defined Table-Generating Functions (UDTF) and User  Defined Aggregating Functions (UDAF) for Hive and Pig.  • Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using  the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala.  • Worked with Spark engine to process large scale data and experience to  create Spark RDD and developing Spark Streaming jobs by using RDDs  and leverage Spark-Shell.  • Having experience on RDD architecture and implementing Spark  operations on RDD and also optimizing transformations and actions in  Spark.  • Hands on experience in Apache Spark jobs using Scala in test environment  for faster data processing and used SparkSQL for querying. Work Experience Python Full Stack Developer US Global Mail - Houston, TX May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed new front end for Django based Web application  using Django CMS, JavaScript, Jquery, Bootstrap.  • Containerized company's existing web applications using Docker and deployed the docker images using a 6 machine cluster using Docker  Swarm.  • Has written specs for new features using BDD framework Gherkin and has  done smoke testing, regression testing using behave and behaving  modules in python.  • Integrated new website with the existing Django Backend.  • Deployed the web application on Azure and Aws and have experience  working with Continuous Integration tools like Jenkins.  • Developing new back-end for the proposed site using Django Framework  and Python from scratch.  • Have used Json, Rest api and Django Rest Framework to implement  shipping, tracking for carriers like fedex, dhl etc and for the warehouse  operations.  • Used Git for Version Control.  • Developed prototype for the current web application in invision app.  • Migrated entire mysql database to Postgres.  • Suppoted companies existing web application with hotfixes and new feature  development in python and Django.  • Migrated Django cms based front-end to Wordpress cms.  • Project lead for new site front end.  • Was part of 4 major releases.  Environment: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, Jquery, Python, Django, Aws, Azure, Git, Jira, Agile, Docker. GRADUATE ASSISTANT Wright State University January 2017 to December 2017 Role: Spark/Hadoop Developer  Responsibilities:  • Hands on experience in Spark and Spark Streaming creating RDD & applying operations transformations and .Developed Spark applications  using Scala for easy Hadoop transitions.  • Used Spark and Spark-SQL to read the parquet data and create the tables  in hive using the Scala API.  • Performed advanced procedures like text analytics and processing, using the in-memory computing capabilities of Spark using Scala.  • Developed Spark code using Scala and Spark-SQL for faster processing and testing.  • Implemented Spark sample programs in python using pyspark.  • Analyzed the SQL scripts and designed the solution to implement using  pyspark.  • Developed pyspark code to mimic the transformations performed in the on- premise environment.  • Used Spark-Streaming APIs to perform necessary transformations and actions on the fly for building the common learner data model which gets the  data from Kafka in near real time.  • Experienced with different scripting language like Python and shell scripts.  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations  using Spark RDD, Scala and Python.  • Worked on Spark SQL, created Data frames by loading data from Hive  tables and created prep data and stored in AWS S3.  • Using Spark-Streaming APIs to perform transformations and actions on the fly for building the common learner data model which gets the data from  Kafka in near real time and Persists into Cassandra  • Involvement in creating custom UDFs for Pig and Hive to consolidated  strategies and usefulness of Python into Pig Latin and HQL (HiveQL)  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using  Spark RDD, Scala and Python.  • Worked on Spark SQL, created Data frames by loading data from Hive  tables and created prep data and stored in AWS S3.  • Developed various data loading strategies and performed various  transformations for analyzing the datasets by using Hortonworks  Distribution for Hadoop ecosystem. Python developer K-HUB (Khammam) November 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Performed the requirement specifications and designing of modules.  • Followed best practices, quality and consistency in project development.  • Actively Involved in Design, Development, Testing, Deployment of web  applications.  • Design and Develop webservices using Django and Flask Frameworks.  • Created Views, Forms, Templates and developing database Models, APIs  using python.  • Connected different python model classes to NoSQL database using  MongoDB.  • Developed single page web application using Angular, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery for interactive cross-browser functionality and for  validating the user information according to business rules and requirements.  • Used AJAX in the user interface to avoid reloading the entire page by simply  changing a small portion of data on web page.  • Develop stored procedures, functions and triggers in SQL and PLSQL.  • Responsible in developing Code snippets and Queries for parsing the data in required data format and store them into the databases.  • Developed RESTful web services for receiving and sending the data from an external source like web API's in JSON format.  • Modified existing modules of Python/Django to generate a data in specific  form.  • Extracted unstructured data by web scraping different web sources using  Beautiful Soup module to use the data for further manipulations.  • Developed application in LAMP (Apache, Linux, MySQL, Python/PHP)  architecture.  • Used Jira for tracking bug defects and management of project.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Experience in Unit Testing, Integration testing and Load Testing using  python's testing libraries.  • Involved in troubleshooting the application as well as debugging.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Linux, JSON, MySQL, Jira, REST. College Student Intern/ Associate SW Developer EMC Corporation January 2015 to November 2015 Python developer)    Responsibilities:  • Worked in DPAD as python developer in Core Technical Division for Bangalore  office.  • Worked for Emc product Avamar, which is an enterprise level backup and recovery software.  • Developed automation tools for product Avamar using Python, wrote  many code snippets in Linux environment for automating the process and to fetch the information from server side following Data Deduplication  strategies.  • Migrated the entire database from SQLLite3 to PostgreSQL with the data  integration.  • Created database tables and generated Entity-Relationship diagrams across different databases.  • Developed the Front-end that is Avamar GUI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS and applications using Django Framework.  • Has automated installation of many avamar server's by writing code snippets  in python (both physical and virtual) and by checking the avamar version  build and replacing it with the latest build if available from repository using  SFTP, Telnet, SSH etc.  • Has written numerous test cases and validated for bugs in Avamar's MSI GUI  interface.  • Experienced in automation using Python & Shell scripting.  • Responsible for windows functionality testing with Automation script in python using selenium webdriver package.  • Responsible for testing various Avamar Functionalities like Backup, Recover, Clone, Client, Push, Disaster Recovery, Cluster HA testing, offline and online  recovery.  • Responsible for multiple releases like Cumulative hot fixes, service packs and main releases. Internship HCL Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2013 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Designing and writing unit test cases in python as well as in code  reviews.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX.  • Involved in writing python code snippets to perform manipulations on files.  • Used various python modules numpy, matplotlib, ploty for data  visualization.  • Used the python's in built modules pandas for Statistical analysis of data  • Created property list for individual applications dynamically in python.  • Migrated entire application framework from java to python.  • Has written numerous MySQL queries and executed them using pure- python module MySQL connector and mysqldb.  • Developed scripts in SQL for validating the data loading.  • Performed various merge operations in python for retrieving and loading the data into the databases.  • Developed Functions, triggers and stored procedures.  • Performed system testing, unit testing and integration testing.    Environment: Python, MySQL, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Git, Linux, Apache Web Server. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Wright State University - Dayton, OH January 2016 to December 2017 Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science SRM University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills Apache spark, C++, Django, Docker, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Json, Mapreduce, Php, Pig, Prolog, Python, Flask, Numpy, Pandas, Pyspark, Ruby, Scripting Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Python, Java, C, C++, SQL, SCHEME, MapReduce,  Languages Ruby, Pig scripting, pcap programming, shell  scripting, Prolog.  Web technologies HTML5, CSS, php, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX,  AngularJS, Bootstrap, AngularJS 2, XML, Json  Build Tools and IDEs Jenkins, Maven, Eclipse, PyCharm, Sublime text,  Notepad++, Spyder, Microsoft Visual  studio,Wireshark.  Databases MySQL, PLSQL, PostgreSQL, AWS Aurora,  DynamoDB, MongoDB  Version Control Tools CVS, GIT, Bit Bucket  Python Libraries NumPy, Pandas, Beautiful Soup, SciKit-learn,  urllib2, pycopg2, PySpark  Operating System Windows, Linux, MacOS, Unix  Big Data MapReduce, Apache Pig, Apache Spark  Cloud Services Aws  Testing Tools Selenium,Qtp, Unittest, pytest  Web Services Soap, Rest  Web Frameworks Django, Flask, Spring, Hibernate  Deployment Tools Chef, AWS Code Commit, Docker, Docker  Compose, Docker Swarm  Server-less Technology Aws Lambda  Monitoring and Logging Cloud Watch and Cloud Trail  Messaging Queue's AWS SQS