Python/Application Developer II <span class="hl">Python</span>/Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> II Python/Application Developer II - DBI Services Hazleton, PA • 4 years of development experience with 2+ years in Python/Django.  • Experience in design and implementation of modules on AEM 5.6.1, AEM 6.0.  • Hands on experience with Web Technologies like HTML5, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Familiar with AWS cloud platform(IAM, EC2 and S3 Services).  • Well versed in developing Web applications using AJAX, JQuery and REST Web Services.  • Performance tuning of large database queries that take several hours to execute and making them execute in fewer hours.  • Designing and developing Web applications using Angular JS, Node JS and creating responsive web pages using Bootstrap.  • Excellent at Code Reviews, Bug fixing and Enhancements.  • Strong team player with excellent communication and problem solving skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python/Application Developer II DBI Services - Hazleton, PA April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Writing high functional backend Python Scripts to develop views and templates with Django Framework's template language to create web based applications.  • Working with Django ORM, designing Schemas and views for reusability in Postgres Database.  • Defining new API's using RESTFUL Web Services to extract data from different data sources.  • Efficient and Dynamic Web design and development, JS programming using Angular JS and Bootstrap library.  • Developed python functions to automate chart creation using Google Chats API and returning them in DOCX and PDF formats as needed.  • Implement python based APIs and libraries like DataTables, Matplotlib, openpyxl and returning the data onto Excel Spreadsheet and DOCX formats.  • Responsible for setting up new projects in Django, testing, bug fixing and handling change requests.  • Writing efficient PostgreSQL queries using PostGIS functions to get spatial/GPS data for field vehicles.  • Worked on HTML5 VideoJS Player Framework to play dynamic videos from server on page that reduced the video-fetch time significantly from a previous flash player.  Environment: Python3, Django, HTML5, JS, CSS, PostgreSQL, AJAX, Sublime Text, EMACS, Git, PostGIS AEM/Web Developer MRM//MCCANN - Birmingham, MI October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on AEM 6.0 version that deals with Sightly development.  • Box API Development integration for a document to be visible as an iframe.  • Used Angular JS for developing SPA and fetching data to the presentation layer.  • Used Apache Sling architecture to communicate between Java and AEM.  • Various components development from both Front-end and Back-end perspective.  • Involved in maintaining the site and fixing the issues to deploy code to UAT within deadlines.  • Had more exposure towards agile projects and how to meet deadlines in a timely manner.  Environment: Java 1.7, AEM 5.6.1, AEM 6.0, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, OSGI, Maven, Sublime Text, AJAX, CRXDE, GitHub, SVN, Hudson, Grunt. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO December 2015 Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Lords Institute of Engineering & Technology April 2014 Skills DJANGO, BOOTSTRAP, PYTHON, SVN, AJAX, Javascript, Angularjs, SQL