Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Intuit • Full-stack developer experience more than 5 years in web-app development with RESTful services, designing, deployment and maintenance.  • Worked mostly on Python language with Django and Flask framework.  • Worked with various databases from RDBMS like MySQL, PostgreSQL and NoSQL like Redis Cache and MongoDB.  • Experience building RESTful services and performing ETLs by parsing data from various databases into python objects and JSON data.  • Involved in setting up the CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins/CircleCI, GitHub, Ansible, and Docker as containerization tool.  • Proficient knowledge in cloud technologies like Heroku, Azure, Google Cloud and Amazon AWS Services by managing databases over these cloud servers.  • Used multiple python packages for different purposes like DRF, Flask-restful, BeautifulSoup, numpy, scipy, twitter, Celery, pyhton-crontab, matplotlib, Memcached, Pandas, uuid and also used PEP8 coding convention.  • Strong experience using REST Web Services for data communication between remote systems, designed, developed and testing of REST interfaces in python.  • Experience in Developing reverse proxy using NGIX and Ansible to manage end user quarantine  • Excellent team-player with extra ordinary analytical, strategic planning and interpersonal and communication skills, highly motivational, enthusiastic and self-starter.  • Experience using GIT version control, testing, deployments and supporting applications.  Industries Served  Intuit, TrackRevenue, Cisco, RideCell and Grocery4Me. Work Experience Software Developer Intuit - Mountain View, CA April 2018 to Present DESCRIPTION: I am a part of Intuit's internal tool responsible to establish connection between IP addresses within the Intuit's network and outside network and developed to automate the network configuration over Intuit's datacenters.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Develop and support microservices based Python Scripting, Flask and Cron-jobs on and handle deployment process using Ansible-Playbook to build and run on Docker images and services.  • Orchestrated efficient deployments, including testing features and correcting code to produce innovative products.  • Worked closely with business units, and Network Engineers to deliver high availability solutions for critical applications.  • Enhanced feature like automated unit-tests, memcache, cron jobs and md5 hashmaps.  • Good understanding of Docker Swarm orchestration and services over the docker clusters.  • Involved in redesigning deployments processes with Jenkins.  • Maintaining microservices and databases like PostgreSQL, MongoDB and Redis.  • Involved in support for various production issues and designing permanent fix if possible.  • Worked on generating wavefront metrics and configuring Slack alerts and Splunk logs.  • Proficient working with SOAP apis like python suds packages  • Understand networking fundamentals of business unit and to resolve any network issues in application. Fullstack Developer TrackRevenue - San Francisco, CA October 2017 to March 2018 DESCRIPTION: TrackRevenue is based on online advertisements, affiliate marketing, designing of full end to end cycle for advertisers and makes it easy to track their advertisement and manage revenue out of it.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Experience working on python/Django framework and AngularJS with ag-grid.  • Keeping track of clicks and maintaining records for each conversion in Redis.  • Worked on clicks and conversions tracking projects using python/Django framework, DRF and AngularJS.  • Designed new api endpoints using django rest framework and implemented it on frontend using AngularJS.  • Designed new user groups and assigned new permissions using django permissions.  • Experience writing test cases using django test libraries for web app.  • Build microservices based on flask to serve better.  • Used Django South library to manage migrations in django.  • Used Mantis as bug tracking and GitHub for version maintaining tool.  • Develop PHP SDK to enable extensive of RESTful APIs.  • Worked with invoice generation, its approval and denied and sending notifications using amazon mail systems.  • Worked with django triggers, signals, celery for scheduling tasks, django triggers. Python Automation Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA October 2016 to September 2017 DESCRIPTION: Designing the scripts based on the records and rewriting it to make it more dynamic. I was the part of the business module for customer success and to automate the tracking.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Developing the scripting module, ensuring its working and responsible for make it more dynamic.  • Enhancing the scripts with Django/flask frameworks and designed the view with bootstraps  • Performed data manipulations with pandas and numpy python libraries.  • Used matplotlib for graphical representations of the data.  • Developed Python script test using the docstrings test for testing its functionalities.  • Designed the automated Report generations with matplotlib and pandas.  • Worked on Tableau Desktop reporting features like success ratios, Filters, Table merges and Calculations, Calculated fields, Sets, Groups, Parameters, Blending and Trend Lines.  • Created various reports, dashboards using various Tableau visualizations like Dual Axis, Bar Graphs, Scatter Plots, Pie Charts, Heat Maps, Gantt Charts, Tree Maps, Box Plots.  • Used bunch, bunchify and unbunchify to render the object to/from in json formats. Developer Ridecell / Full - San Francisco, CA October 2015 to September 2016 DESCRIPTION: Like enterprice and other car rental services, Ridecell provides car renting and ride sharing like Uber/Lyft. It has services like, Reachnow, GIG carshare and 3M all of them provide various options for shuttles and car/ride sharing.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Designed and developed the server module based on python and django and resolved issues and responsible for its enhancements and used React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7, and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked on Django ORM module, API profiling techniques, Signals, and Celery.  • Involved in notification service development for push notification via text and email using Twilio python SDK.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used multiple containers and managed the load balancing between all the containers using NGINX.  • Implemented programming automations using Jenkins and Ansible on unix/linux based OS over cloud like Docker.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs  • Developed leadership skills and managing the team spirit. Software Developer Fremont, CA October 2014 to September 2015 DESCRIPTION: Grocery4me is totally web based grocery shopping and delivery service. The company focuses on the grocery and food market in Bay Area. The order deliveries handled by on demand delivery platform.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Designed and developed complete admin module and resolved issues and enhanced it.  • Used Python's Django as backend framework, Bootstrap and Angular as frontend and PostgreSQL database.  • Modified Django ORM module to reduce number of db queries needed but retrieve same amount of data.  • Worked on Docker and Ansible.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Deployed and tested different modules in Docker containers and GIT.  • Used multiple containers and managed the load balancing between all the containers using NGINX.  • Implemented programming automations using Jenkins and Ansible on unix/linux based OS over cloud like Docker.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs  • Developed leadership skills and managing the team spirit. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology in Information Technology Gujarat Technological University 2012 Skills Django, Docker, Javascript, Bootstrap, Orm Additional Information Skills  Languages  Python, Java, PHP, JavaScript, Angular, Bootstrap, Bash Script.  Frame Works  Django, DRF, Django ORM, Flask, REST, SQLAlchemy, Spring, Hibernate.  Databases  Oracle, MS Access, MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Redis.  Tools & IDE  Pycharm, Microsoft Visual Code, Eclipse, JIRA, Jenkin, CircleCI, Splunk, Docker, Ansible.