Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Alliant Insurance Services Phoenix, AZ • Professional with 3 years of technical exposure in diverse technologies.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, AWS and JQuery.  • Hands-on experience in SOAP and RESTful web services.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Java Script and JQuery  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in working on Web Servers like Apache server and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse and MyEclipse.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Expertise in test automation and continuous delivery of web applications, client server applications, web services/REST APIs Testing, with Python.  • Well-versed in ticketing system such as Altassian JIRA.  • Effectively involved in handling releases, managing merges and deployments.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Highly efficient in working in fast paced environment and multiple issues at a time.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Alliant Insurance Services - Newport Beach, CA January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed and designed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to interact with company's website.  • Successfully implemented Django framework to design server applications.  • Wrote Python code and actively participated in the procedure to automate processes.  • Build and test functionality within a production pipeline.  • Implemented Python code to fix bugs and provides upgrades to existing functionality.  • Provided fault isolation and root cause analysis for technical problems.  • Highly efficient in handling multi-tasking issues in a fast paced environment.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed tools using Python, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Performance and functional testing of all the dynamic and interactive features of the website.  • Performed API Level testing for web services, enhanced the Test harness and developed many Test suites using XML and Python.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python, Django, PYQt, Python SDK, AWS, PyQuery, REST API, DOM, Bootstrap, XML, HTML5, JavaScript, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, MySQL, LINUX. Python Developer Canyon Community Bank - Tucson, AZ April 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Prepared the data for API testing using SQL.  • Performed the backend services/API testing using various systems like REST API services  • Develop Python scripts to automate the test cases.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Developed Automation scripts for new enhancements using Selenium Web Driver.  • Using GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, PYQT, Java, XML, JQuery, DOM, JSON, HTML, XHTML, REST API, CSS, JavaScript, Rest, GIT, MY SQL, Windows and LINUX. Python Developer Shutterfly - Redwood City, CA July 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed custom reports using HTML, Python and MySQL.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Documented the revised workflow using confluence wiki.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL.  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  Environment: Python, PyQT, PyQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, agile, Web Services (SOAP), XML, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Education Master's Skills Javascript. (3 years), Mysql (3 years), Python (3 years), Sql (3 years), Xml (3 years), Javascript, Git Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Python, SQL  Python Framework Django, Flask  Web Technologies JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery  Versioning Tools Subversion, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache  Databases MySQL, Oracle  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows Variants