Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - AT&T El Segundo, CA ? Full stack developer around 6 years of industrial experience in Designing, Development, Deployment and maintenance of web apps developed in python, Django and flask frameworks.  ? Experience in writing code using Object Oriented Programming (OOPs concept) and software development life cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, database design and agile methodologies.  ? More than 4 years of Professional Web Apps development experience using Django and Flask inclusive of experience in UI using JavaScript, AngularJS and React-Redux.  ? Experience in writing the python scripts and tracking customer development.  ? Experience working with Vagrant virtual machine and Docker images and containers.  ? Developed CI/CD pipelines using Jenkins.  ? Proficient knowledge in Web services like AWS and google cloud.  ? Worked with varieties of Relational Databases (RDBMS) like SQLite, MySQL and Postgresql and NoSQL DBs like MongoDB.  ? Good knowledge working on Django and flask web framework to develop scalable web applications.  ? Developed code using PEP8 coding standards.  ? Strong experience using REST Web Services for data communication between remote systems, designed, developed and testing of REST interfaces in python and Java.  ? Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Installation, configuring and working with OSX10 Sierra, Ubuntu 14/16, Fedora23 and Red Hat Enterprise Linux server 5.0/6.0 on VMware and stand-alone platforms.  ? Experience using GIT version control and testing deployments using Heroku.  ? Experience working in Pycharm and sublime text coding environment.  ? Deployed a lot of web application over the private cloud using AWS and managed the web applications using EC2 instances.  ? Well aware of SDLC, Waterfall, Test-driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum Methodologies. Work Experience Python Developer AT&T - El Segundo, CA August 2018 to Present Description:  FSTP is an application used by Field technicians to fulfill work orders.The application also includes generating analytics regarding the customer and subscription data which has to be segregated in sectors which is used by business team for decision making.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked with business teams to enhance the applications to suit their needs.  ? Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  ? Developed a MVC web applications and Restful web services and APIs using Python, SQL server and flask.  ? Created and integrated APIs on Restful web services.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, JSON to automate the process extracting the information from the android log files.  ? Used regular expression to identify the patterns in the log files.  ? Developed scripts using pandas to easily perform read/write operations to CSV files, manipulate and compare data by columns.  ? Part of the android team to maintain and develop the android app according to the business needs.  ? Built data pipe lines to load the information extracted from the log files for further analysis.  ? Developed ETL jobs in Python to extract, transform and load data into SQL database.  ? Used python modules like Restful, Matplotlib and Pandas library for statistical analysis and generating complex graphical data and Numpy for numerical analysis.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib.  ? Research on Data mining techniques using python and comparing data mining algorithms  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  ? Created database using MySQL and Postgres, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  ? Successfully migrated the database from SQLite to MySQL to SQL server with complete data integrity.  ? Used GIT for loading and pushing source code and used Jenkins for continuous Integration for the GIT repository.  ? Followed Waterfall development methodology to maintain the application.  ? Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  Environment: Python 3.X, Anaconda, Numpy, Scipy, Pandas, Java, Android, Eclipse, SQLite, REST, MVC, HTML, CSS. Python Developer Advance Auto Parts - Richmond, VA June 2017 to July 2018 Description:  Advance Auto parts is a pioneer is auto parts dealerships. The application is based on data mining on the customer's transaction data and pushing the deals to the customer's phone.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on backend of the application.  ? Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  ? Involved in deployment of project using AWS (EC2, RDS, S3).  ? Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  ? Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration testing and web application testing.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, MySQL, Linux, HTML, GIT, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django, Rest API's Software Engineer EHealth Solutions Inc - Dublin, CA November 2016 to May 2017 Description:  The application is to develop management solutions for the independent physicians to manage their appointments and EHR records. The application is also designed to give location services to patients. Worked with senior developers to develop API's.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed RESTful APIs for collection and retrieval of large amounts of patient data using Node.JS and express framework.  ? Integrated the application with Google maps API to mark the location of physicians along with the street view.  ? Designed and administered the client database which handles patients EHR records.  ? Mongoose ORM to insert or retrieve database objects.  ? Created automation and deployment scripts for NoSQL database.  ? Troubleshooting different modules/functions of the application using the debug log and scripting.  ? Coded test scripts to test various functionalities of the application.  ? Developed python scripts to access the server log files to search for build errors.  ? Leveraged different test frameworks to test the API endpoints.  ? Generated API endpoints to get the data in JSON format.  ? Managed Amazon Web Services (AWS) including configuration and continuous Integration and deployment of the software.  ? Leveraged AWS cloud services EC2 and VPC to build a scalable and secure system to handle unexpected loads.  ? Coordinated webpages with appropriate links and multimedia content in collaboration with design team.    Environment: NodeJS, Mongoose, Mongo DB, SQLAlchemy, JavaScript, HTML, CSS. Python Developer People Tech Group - Sunnyvale, CA June 2015 to May 2016 Description:  People Tech is an emerging leader in the Enterprise Applications and IT Services marketplace. People Tech draws its expertise from strategic partnerships with technology leaders like Microsoft, Oracle and SAP.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  ? Involved in the process of creating Use-case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase and developed the Coding module.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations, data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  ? Automation of unit testing using Python.  ? Used Linux OS based cloud for the deployment.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file using Python Library Beautiful Soup.  ? Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to MongoDB.  ? Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and AngularJS while integrating with infrastructure services.  ? Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  ? Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like trace route, SMTP mail server and web server.  ? Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, iter tools, pickle, jinja variables, lxml for development.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.    Environment: Python, Django, REST API, Agile, Heroku, Bootstrap, pickle, jinja, SMTP, Django ORM, Pandas api, MongoDB, Beautiful Soup. Entry Level Python Developer Value labs - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2013 to April 2014 Description:  Value labs are the leading global technology company specializing in Digital Enablement and Product Development.    Responsibilities:  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Python modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  ? Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering San Jose State University 2016 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating systems Windows, Unix, Linux  Language Python, Java, OOPs concepts, Shell Scripting  Database Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, SQLite  Tools MS Visual Studio, Linux command  Web Framework Django, Flask.  Web Services AWS, Amazon S3  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, MAC OSX, Ubuntu.  Integration and Bug Tracking Tools Jenkins, Git, Jira.  Deployment Tools Heroku, Vagrant.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SMTP