Node Package Manager Node Package Manager Node Package Manager - Early Warning California City, CA ? Over 5+ years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing various stand-alone and client-server Architectures based enterprise application software on different domains.  ? Expertise in developing web-based applications using Spark with Scala and python Bash, Perl, Python, PHP, XML, DHTML, XHTML, Ajax, JOOMLA, CSS, HTML, JSON, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  ? Expertise in various Python packages such as Celery, NumPy, SQLAlchemy, TypeScript, Beautiful soup, Pickle, PySide, PyMongo, SciPy, PyTables, PyUnit.  ? Efficient knowledge in using different version control systems like Git, Perforce and GitHub.  ? Proficient intranet portal for managing Amazon EC2 servers using Tornado and MongoDB.  ? Expertise in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Project management tool JIRA.  ? Extensive knowledge in Python, Core Java, MySQL, XSL, Oracle, UNIX, LINUX as well as in React.js framework to develop the SPA and working with React Flux and Redux architecture.  ? Expertise in Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  ? Expertise in reporting tools like Grafana, Kibana (ELK) for setting up charts and graphs for better visual representation of test results.  ? Expertise with AWS services like S3, ELB, EBS, Auto-Scaling, Route53, Storefront, IAM, Cloud Watch, RDS.  ? Expertise in Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  ? Expertise in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP. Expertise in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java.  ? libraries such as NumPy, SciPy and Pandas for data analysis and numerical computations.  ? Proficient in web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  ? Expertise infrastructure from inhouse servers to AWS cloud. Used Docker Container, EC2, IAM, RDS, Route 53, REST API gateway and Lambda of AWS.  ? Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark and No-SQL databases like HBase and MongoDB.  ? Expertise in Python Development and Scientific Programing and using Numpy and Pandas in Python for Data Manipulation.  ? Expertise in entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Expertise with most of the web scale services on Amazon Web Services (AWS). Expertise in AWS like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS.  ? Expertise with Querying RDBMS such as My SQL, SQL server and SAS.  ? Expertise in implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django and MYSQL.  ? Expertise on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, Spyder and IntelliJ.  ? Expertise in JavaScript frameworks to replace frontend of a Flask application and began implementing a React solution.  ? Expertise in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL database as well as on Dynamodb.  ? Expertise in design patterns such as MVC using Django, Flask and deploying application on Apache tomcat server, containerizing applications using Docker.  ? Expertise in using CI tools Hudson, Build Forge, and Jenkins for automated builds.  ? Expertise with agile development methods like agile/scrum, TDD, BDD, peer code reviews, continuous integration.  ? Expertise working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Expertise building mockups, GUI layouts by using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Expertise in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM process including Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Daily Standups and Code review.  ? Expertise in using NOSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  ? Expertise in UNIX shell scripts for business process and loading data from different interfaces to HDFS.  ? Expertise in using Scikit-Learn and Statsmodels in Python for Machine Learning and Data Mining. Work Experience Node Package Manager Early Warning - San Francisco, CA November 2018 to Present San Francisco, CA  NOVEMBER 2018 - PRESENT  ? Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, AngularJs, Reactjs, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django and HTML.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Designed and Developed various Angular Components (/ngModule), Services (observable/promises), Directives and Pipes via TypeScript.  ? Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT & MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  ? Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  ? Automated builds using Maven and scheduled automated nightly builds using Heroku and Jenkins. Built Jenkins pipeline to drive all microservices builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes.  ? Build an ETL pipeline using Pentaho Spoon, Spark, Hadoop, HDFS for customers with large data volume.  ? Worked on analyzing Hadoop stack and different big data analytic tools including Pig, Hive, HBase database and DynamoDB.  ? Performed job functions using Spark API's in Scala for real time analysis and for fast querying purposes.  ? Developed Front-end templates for management system using Angular2, HTML5, Typescript, and Bootstrap.  ? Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  ? Developed RDD's/Data Frames in Spark using Scala and Python and applied several transformation logics to load data from Hadoop Data Lake to Cassandra DB.  ? Used WebPack, Babel and gulp for transpilation(compilation) configuration for Typescript to be converted to JavaScript.  ? ETL process for continuously bulk importing catalog data from MySQL into Elastic search.  ? Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  ? Installed Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven and Maven Repository and Deployment of apps using custom modules through Puppet as a CI/CD Process.  ? Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with ANT and Maven to schedule the builds.  ? Performed joins, group by and other operations in MapReduce using Python.  ? Modified existing scala code to connect different system and database as well as proficient at using Spark API's to explore, cleanse, aggregate, transform and store machine sensor data.  ? Worked on Spark Scripts to find the most trending products (day-wise and week-wise) using Scala and deployed third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  ? Developed scripts for build, deployment, maintain and related task using Jenkins, Maven, Python, Bash.  ? Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark.  ? Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  ? Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  ? Expertise in JavaScript frameworks to replace frontend of a Flask application and began implementing a React solution.  ? Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  ? Involved in installing software using pip command for python libraries like Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, python-twitter, RabbitMQ, Celery, matplotlib, Pandas data-frame and used the PEP8 coding convention.  ? Implemented mapStateToProps, mapDispatchToProps for the interactions between Redux and React.  ? Proficient in developing Apache ANT and Maven scripts to build J2EE enterprise applications.  ? Created webservices using WTP tool plugin to the eclipse IDE which is deployed as a separate application using Maven scripts.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed Kafka producer and consumers, HBase clients, Spark, shark, Streams and Hadoop MapReduce jobs along with components on HDFS, Hive.  ? Installed, configured and managed the ELK (Elastic Search, Log Facilitated Scrum ceremonies like Sprint planning, retrospectives, Daily stand-ups, etc. Stash and Kibana) for Log management within EC2/ Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) for Elastic search.  ? Using JDK, maven and STS IDE used for development and building the application.  ? Developed Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets.  ? Designed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  ? Worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  ? Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala.  ? Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  ? Developed Test Cases and Test Scripts in selenium web driver with Java using Cucumber framework with build management tool Maven.  ? Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, AWS Glue Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  ? Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala.  ? Connected applications to SignalRHub using Angular/ Typescript to provide real time charts for CPU, Memory, Ethernet and Disk usage.  ? Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed. Python Developer Sprint - Overland Park, KS September 2017 to October 2018 Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery.  ? Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, AWS Glue Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Proficient in developing front-end with React-Redux, HTML, JSX, CSS, SCSS, Bootstrap, TypeScript, ES6 and Webpack.  ? Expertise in configuration management automation tools such as Chef, Puppet and Salt, Good coding experience with scripting languages like Perl, Ruby and Bash.  ? Proficient with structures, semi-structured and unstructured data, using a broad range of data science programming languages and big data tools including R, Python, Spark, SQL, Scikit Learn, Hadoop Map Reduce.  ? Proficient in Routine Linux application testing/upgrades; new product evaluation and system impact analysis. Supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL for Linux and Windows.  ? Designed recognition models for both handwritten and text-based characters capable of continuous learning using deep neural networks leveraging keras.  ? Proficient working with Bot Frameworks, IBM Watson, Google Cloud Platform/Tensor Flow, or Amazon Web Services / Sagemaker, and open source.  ? Designed RESTful Webservices using FLASK, with emphasis on improved Security for the service using FLASK-HTTPAuth with HTTPS.  ? Built Elastic search, Log stash and Kibana (ELK) to store logs and metrics into S3 bucket using Lambda function.  ? Implemented Single page Application using React Redux and Flux architectures.  ? Hosted GPU based Apache spark jobs using Scala for faster data processing and used spark SQL for querying.  ? Worked on analyzing Hadoop stack and different big data analytic tools including Pig, Hive, HBase database and DynamoDB.  ? Proficient in React.js framework to develop the SPA and working with React Flux and Redux architecture.  ? Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  ? Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala as well as used Scala to convert Hive/SQL queries into RDD transformations in Apache Spark.  ? Worked on migrating MapReduce programs into Spark transformations using Scala. Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop.  ? Developed SonarQube for code quality check and Nexus repository and integrated them into Jenkins to achieve Continuous Integration.  ? Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  ? Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like raceroute, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  ? Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  ? Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible  ? Recording of Scripts Web Services HTML using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods.  ? Used GO lang scripts for uploading a file to S3 and deploying them an d creating GO serverless application and deploying it to AWS lambda.  ? Worked with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/10i and MySQL databases to query and read data.  ? Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  ? Installed and configured configuration tool such as Chef Server/workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes. Node Package Manager Delta Airlines - Greater Atlanta Area (INDIA) August 2012 to March 2015 Deployed Python scripts with Cloud Formation templates to automate installation of Auto scaling, EC2, VPC, DynamoDB, cloud formation, Beautiful soup and other services.  ? Used Spark API over Hortonworks Hadoop YARN to perform analytics on data in Hive.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI testing using Pytest and web application testing using Selenium Python bindings.  ? Proficient in specialization areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation. Automated the cloud deployments using chef, Python (boot & fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates  ? Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  ? Built development environment with Kubernetes and Docker in AWS using JupyterHub.  ? Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  ? Helped maintain existing Python (Django and Flask) applications. Interfaced with infrastructure services like Amazon AWS (S3, SQS) and used tools like Sold, RabbitMQ.  Delta Airlines - Greater Atlanta Area (INDIA)  AUGUST 2012 - MARCH 2015  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations, data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration  ? Used Go Lang to create backend servers. Developed Micro services using Go language and developed corresponding test cases.  ? Developed and Deployed the Application on WebSphere using ANT build.xml script.  ? Build Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and React.JS, Redux.  ? Designed JQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations as well as used maven for building, creating JPA based entity objects and compiling GWT and GXT application.  ? Experience in designing and developing applications in Spark using Scala.  ? Expertise in developing API services in Python/Tornado, Node.JS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  ? Implemented SQLAlchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Application of various learning algorithms and statistical modeling like decision trees, text analytics, natural language processing (NLP), supervised and unsupervised, regression models, social network analysis, neural networks, deep learning, SVM, clustering to identify Volume using scikit-learn package in python, Mat-lab.  ? Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  ? Automated builds using Maven and scheduled automated nightly builds using Jenkins. Built Jenkins pipeline to drive all microservices builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes.  ? Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  ? Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Implemented Integration test cases and Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  ? Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data.  ? Proficient working with Redis, RabbitMQ for task queues and Celery to manage Asynchronous tasks.  ? Created RDDs, performed analysis and ran queries in Python and Apache Spark based on retrospective and groups.  ? Executed Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Anisole.  ? Managed worldwide data in Omniture for data collection and analysis and also worked on the library like pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Docker.  ? Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  ? Wrote with object-oriented Python, AWS,Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  ? Proficient in Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installing and configuring Kubernetes.  ? Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python pandas' libraries.  ? Uses Edward is a Python library for probabilistic modeling, inference, and criticism. It is a testbed for fast experimentation and research with probabilistic models.  ? Designed and implemented open source AI frameworks - Pytorch, TensorFlow, Scikit-learn, Apache Open Source (Kafka, Storm, Spark) for NLP and ML Algorithms.  ? Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  ? Utilized Python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib for generating graphical reports.  ? Worked on the development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and denormalization in MYSQL.  ? Developed the notification service by posting the request in AWS API Gateway, Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  ? Worked with redux saga along with redux thunk to handle asynchronous calls efficiently.  ? Configured Spark streaming to receive real time data from Kafka and store the stream data to HDFS for persistence and Hive for real time reporting  ? Implemented the application in LINUX environment and comfortable with all its commands.  ? Executed MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.