Python Web developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Web <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Jones Lang Lassale Chicago, IL •Over 6+ years of experience in software development with focus on Python web development and design.  • Participated in all phases of the System Development Life Cycle Analysis (SDLC).  •Experience in Python Web development as a Full Stack development  •Experience in Python frameworks like Django and FLASK framework.  •Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++, C  • Good experience of software development in Python libraries used Beautiful Soup, Pandas, Numpy and urllib2  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using XML, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Experience with multiple technologies like Python, Shell Scripting, Java, C/C++.  • Worked with JavaScript/Vanilla JavaScript, JSON, REST API'S and XML Parsing  • Experience of Python requests module and HTTP requests, response, methods.  • Experience in Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) design, programming, normalization and security administration with MySQL, SQL-Alchemy and Oracle  • Exposure to multiple database platforms like MySQL, MSSQL  • Having good knowledge on PYSPARK  •Experience in Testing by validations through cyber security and to protect the data through OWASP strategies.  • Experience in Pen testing and web testing browsers like safari, chrome, Firefox, IE and fixing UI issues.  • Hand-On experience in Implement, Build and Deployment of CI/CD pipelines, managing projects often includes tracking multiple deployments across multiple pipeline stages (Dev, Test/QA staging and production).  •Created branches and managed the source code for various applications in GIT.  •Configured GIT with Jenkins and schedule jobs  • Implemented CI/CD tools Upgrade, Backup, Restore, API call, DNS, LDAP and SSL setup.  •Very quick learner and keen to adopt new technologies.  • Excellent analytical skills accompanied by good written, interpersonal communication, documentation and testing skills. Work Experience Python Web developer Jones Lang Lassale - Chicago, IL September 2018 to Present Project Description: HRcomplan is an internal application for implementing their compensation planning tool for the employee bonus and merit pools and transfers for the end users    Responsibilities:  • Developing GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developing and tested many features for dashboard using Python 3.x, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Working in Agile software development- a framework that delivers customer collaboration and interaction with processes and tools.  • Designed and developed Python Django templates and UI components using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and JSON.  • Using Django Framework developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  • Developing consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Designing and developing middleware, using RESTful web services based on a centralized schema which is consumed by thousands of users.  • Utilized GIT for Source code control and JIRA for Bug tracking.  • Using Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  • Successfully migrated the database from MSSQL to SQL Alchemy with complete data integrity.  • Extensively used Python's multiple data science packages like Pandas, NumPy, matplotlib, SciPy and NLTK.  • Developed Python code to scrap information off the web and store the data SQL databases  • Created branches and managed the source code for various applications in GIT/TFS.  • Configured GIT with Jenkins and schedule jobs  • Installing and Configuring the Jenkins for the purpose of continues Integration and End to End automation for all build and deployments  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Python3.6, Django, HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, JSON, Apache, MSSQL, SQL Alchemy, REST APIS, AWS, Jenkins, Docker and GIT/TFS Python Web developer Westchester County - White Plains, NY May 2016 to August 2018 Project Description: Onestop is a web application for job portal where jobseekers connects to jobs through employers. It is developed in secure way using Flask, Javascript, REST API calls and JSON.    Responsibilities:  • Working in various stage of software development life cycle includes requirements, analysis, design, development, deployment and testing of an application for business outputs.  • Working in Agile software development- a framework that delivers customer collaboration and interaction with processes and tools.  • Working on web application development and deployment. - UI screens, security, logging, backend services.  • Writing backend programming/routes in FLASK  • Created RESTful services to interact with fronted and backend.  • Designed front-end screens with HTML5, CSS3 and Object oriented JavaScript  • Used Gulp to compile uglify/minify and compress js files.  • Involved in designing application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python using Flask REST framework.  • Working in LINUX environment in developing the application and familiar with all of its commands.  • Worked closely with Engineers and product managers to create user stories and scenarios used for intuitive websites and mobile designs.  •Working on Server Side validations using REGEX sent response by using Json, By following the OWASP Strategies.  • Used GCC for compiling the Python scripts  •To install the packages like gulp-bundle for js through NPM  • Working on developing web pages using AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JSON, XML.  • Used much Regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Used AJAX to modify small portions of the web pages by sending a request to the server avoiding the need of reloading the entire web page and also for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Exposure to multiple database platforms like Oracle, MySQL and Mongo DB.  •Used SQL Alchemy to filter the query by created models for the tables for the Database.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Working on IDE's like PyCharm, Visual Code.  • Installed numerous Python packages using pip and easy install.  • Very good understanding of Python requests module and HTTP requests, response, methods.  • Unit Tested the application using PYTEST.  • Security Tested the project in all sort of security attacks like SQL Injection, XSS, CSRF other attacks.    Environment: Flask, Python3.6, HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, GULPJS, AJAX, JSON, Ngnix, MYSQL, SQL Alchemy, REST APIS, AWS, Linux, Jenkins and GIT Software Developer CGI - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed frontend layout and intro for home page using Fireworks.  • Utilized the mail merge techniques in MS Word for the time reduction in sending certificates.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Used Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib libraries for n-dimensional representation of data and plotting graphs.  Creating HTML Markups using responsive web design approach with HTML, CSS and JavaScript  •Rendering the templates using JINJA2  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL  • Web Application developed using Web Technologies  • Interactive Planning for the product development.  • Used Flash Animations and Storyboard & User Flows for e-learning tutorials using human factor engineering design concepts.  • Performed unit testing.  Environment: Python, JINJA2, HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, XML, JSON and Linux Education Master's Skills database (2 years), Javascript. (4 years), Json. (4 years), Mysql (3 years), Python (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript  Web Services: REST API's, JSON  Languages: Python, C /C++  Database: SQLALCHEMY, MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle  Software methodologies: Agile, Waterfall  Build Tools and Continuous Integration: Jenkins, gulp Js  IDE: Sublime Text, Notepad++, Visual Studio code  Version control: GIT, TFS