IL - Lead Python Integration Developer IL - Lead <span class="hl">Python</span> Integration <span class="hl">Developer</span> IL - Lead Python Integration Developer - Solomo Inc Hoffman Estates, IL Work Experience IL - Lead Python Integration Developer Solomo Inc - Peoria, IL June 2018 to Present Develop & Maintain Python code on the AWS Platform to integrate systems like Aventri(previously eTouches), Quickbooks, RDBS systems with Salesforce using Restful APIs & Python, Django, Flask, Pandas & Numpy.  ? Set up and manage Servers on Amazon using EC2, with extensive experience in Cloud9 and S3.  ? Develops systems on Heroku to sync systems with Salesforce.  ? Designs responsive websites for clients using Django, HTML, CSS, and WordPress, JavaScript & Flask.  ? Designs, develops, tests and delivers software solutions; experienced with unit testing, writing test scripts.  ? Works with other team members, including other developers, Technical Architects, QA, Business Analysts & Project Managers. Website Developer & Administrator Modern Maternity, NY May 2016 to August 2016 Managed all aspects of the client's website, including publishing, updating, and managing content. Troubleshoot website functionality and escalate issues to the vendor.  ? Produced logos, website banners, buttons, flyers, posters, and marketing e-mails.  ? Provided support and acted as technical support liaison for staff. Maintained website database information, also store & retrieve client data.  ? Attend client and company meetings to identify website function needs. Build test scripts that complement each client's projects. Web Developer & Technical Data Assistant Intern Crukces Media Production - IN December 2014 to June 2015 Web Developer Lead for the Crukces Website, helping the client build a User Interface using JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  ? Back end database sync using PHP & Python.  ? Integration of multiple data sources and databases into one system  ? Technical Data Assistant Designed branding materials and managed the UI/UX part of the website.  ? Performed Data Manipulation in Excel to achieve analytical goals; utilized lookup and reference functions like VLOOKUP to sort and manipulate data with MS Excel.  ? Created weekly reports for prospect research and worked on several data entry cleanup projects.  ? Modified pivot tables, sorting items and group data and refreshing and formatted pivot tables.  ? Assessed daily call statistics to ensure client service level agreements were being achieved appropriate staffing needs were met. Web Developer & QA Tester Intern Eltrivate Media Networks - IN June 2014 to December 2014 Web Developer & QA Tester(Agile) Created projects applying creative, innovative and a great sense of UI/UX Design using HTML, CSS and Adobe Photoshop.  ? Defined project scope, goals, and deliverables to build & test websites. Joined client meetings to learn about the development of project scopes, including reviewing business priorities, analyzing options, and risks and costs.  ? Developed complete implementation/project plans to develop websites and associated communications documents.  ? Composed and created progress report documentations, propositions, requirements and presentations with Developers and Managers.  ? Conducted UAT Testing & Participated in Code reviews and Quality Assurance. Involved in preparation of Test Plan, Test Cases, Test Scripts, and Test Scenarios. Performed Web Test and Load Test using VSTS and used QTP 10. 0 for testing other Apps. Education Master's in Information Technology in Information Technology Bradley University December 2017 Bachelor's in Information Technology in Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University June 2014 Skills Api, C++, Django, Git, Html, Javascript, Reactjs, Php, Python, Flask, Css, Db2, Mysql, Postgresql, Dev ops, Ui, Version control, Ux, Java, Integration, HTML 5, Jquery Additional Information SKILLS  Python Django ReactJs Java C++ PHP HTML CSS JavaScript Flask |  MySQL RDBS PostgreSQL DB2 API Design & Development Version Control w/ Git Manual & Automation Testing Salesforce Administration Agile & Scrum Methodologies UI/UX Design Photoshop & Illustrator AWS Heroku Platforms Continuous Integration & Dev Ops |