Python developer intern <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> intern Austin, TX I am a master in mechanical engineering with a thesis degree project in heat recovering systems. I have experience in software development, projects development in engineering using CAD/CAE programs and interpretation of engineering  drawing. I have knowledge in full-stack web development, CNC machines, welding processes, material selection, manufacturing systems, and pumping processes. Work Experience Python developer intern Athena security - Austin, TX April 2019 to July 2019 Functions: Support the technical area of the company by developing code in Python and Bash languages. Make local network connections with IP cameras and computers. Connect cameras through rtsp protocol. Install operating systems to computers. Teacher Teinco - Bogotá, Cundinamarca September 2018 to April 2019 Functions: Teach physics, python, thermodynamics, dynamics and instrumentation courses. Do research in lineal and no-lineal control. Advise on the development of students' degree projects. Graduate assistant Andes university - Bogotá, Cundinamarca 2015 to 2017 Functions: Teach Autodesk Inventor and the correct interpretation of engineering drawing to first-year mechanical engineering students. Lecture the complementary class of the course of  Graphic Design in Engineering. Advise the development of students' projects. Create tutorial videos, tasks, slides and support material for the course and improve the way that the topics  were teaching in the course. Quality manager Instituto de soldadura Welderskill S.A.S 2014 to 2015 Functions: Lead the creation of the quality management system. Design and make the administrative and operational procedures required by American Welding Society (AWS) for  recognize the company as an Accredited Test Facility (ATF) and develop the technical  documentation for the welding and testing process. Education Master's in Mechanical engineering Andes University - Bogotá August 2015 to September 2018 Bachelor's in Mechanical engineering National University of Colombia - Bogota January 2011 to May 2015 Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PYTHON, JAVA, SOLIDWORKS, Git, Autodesk inventor (2 years), Arduino, Matlab (8 years), Nodejs, React