Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - JPMorgan Chase New York, NY ? Overall 4 Years of Experience as web/application developer software development and design using python, Django, Java, Webapp2, Angular.js, HTML/CSS, JavaScript and jQuery ? Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations ? Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  ? Experienced in a Pythonbased environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts ? Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  ? Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  ? Experience in Kubernets which provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  ? Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  ? Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  ? Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  ? Have Experience in List Comprehensions and Python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda. Work Experience Python Developer JPMorgan Chase - New York, NY February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:   ? Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  ? Developed Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  ? Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  ? Creating Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom Fortigate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once).  ? Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  ? Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  ? Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  ? Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  ? Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  ? Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  ? Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  ? Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  ? Used Flask framework for application development.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  ? Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  ? Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and AngularJs.  ? Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  ? Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands. D.C., USA - Software Developer Fannie - Mae, WA January 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities: ? Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products, and processes.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  ? Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Services) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  ? Supported/maintained client website within the DJANGO CMS system for various website needs.  ? Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  ? Performed dynamic UI designing with HTML5, CSS3, less, Bootstrap, JSON and AJAX.  ? Created Python and Bash scripts to monitor & increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations.  ? Developed a Django CMS based promotion management system offering the ability to created arbitrary forms through an admin interface ? Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack Monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has integrated Ansible with Run deck and Jenkins ? Used GCP to create storage resources and define resource attributes, such as disk type or redundancy type, at the service level.  ? Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  ? Created a Python/Django based web application for data processing using MySQL as database, and HTML/CSS/JavaScript for frontend development and D3 JavaScript for Data Visualization.  ? Implemented REST API's in Python using python based micro-framework called Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  ? Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration.  ? Designed and developed MySQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  ? Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence • Installed and configured configuration tool such as Chef Server/workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes.  ? Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  ? Created and maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged virtual environment using Docker Junior Python Developer Intel - Santa Clara, CA June 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities: ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Build all database mapping classes using FLASK models.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Created Test plans. Worked on SQL scripts to load data in the tables.  ? Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  ? Coding groovy, domain class to handle the business logic.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on FLASK Framework.  ? Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Jinja and Angular.js.  ? Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  ? Expert knowledge of mobile application development along with various patterns native, web and hybrid concept.  ? Involved in business logic discussions and use case design.  ? Reviewed product requirement documents, functional specifications, and involved in developing test strategy, test plan and test case documents.  ? Created Selenium web-driver automation scripts using Python to validate functionality on various browsers.  ? Very good understanding of Microsoft Azure cloud platform. Experience with managing cloud delivery platforms, Azure/Aws.  ? Established framework to setup Continuous Integration environment using Jenkins, Nexus.  ? Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  ? Involved in developing selenium automation framework using TestNG. Developed Maven targets to execute automation suites from command line.  ? Worked on AWS Cloud and Created instances in EC2.  ? Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated with the releases.  ? Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Subversion (SVN). Education B.Tech in Computer Science in Computer Science Rajasthan Technical University August 2011 to May 2015