Physicist/Deep Learning Developer Physicist/Deep Learning <span class="hl">Developer</span> Physicist/Deep Learning Developer - Texas A&M Cyclotron Institute Austin, TX My degree is in Physics, my passion is in Deep Learning. I taught myself how to  program at the age of 14 and was immediately hooked. By the time I graduated  high school, I had developed and released my own iPhone app.    I entered college as a computer science major, but ultimately changed to Physics  because of it's wider-ranging applicability. Near the end of college, I partnered  with renowned nuclear physicist Dr. Che-Ming Ko and his post-doctoral student  Dr. Kaijia Sun to develop a deep learning application for heavy-ion collisions.    Presently, my partners and I are working to publish our research for the benefit  of the Physics community. Over 95% of physicists do not yet use machine learning  in their workflows: We intend to change this. Work Experience Physicist/Deep Learning Developer Texas A&M Cyclotron Institute - College Station, TX January 2019 to Present Working with post-doctoral researcher Dr. Kaijia Sun to develop a Deep Neu- ral Network that can predict a multitude of parameters given experimental data from a heavy-ion collision. Our implementation works extremely well and we are  preparing to publish a paper on it. Python Developer Transamerica Employee Benefits - Boerne, TX April 2018 to May 2019 Developed software that is responsible for keeping Trans systems synchronized  with those of certain enrollment groups while maintaining 100% HIPAA compli- ance. Groups include: Boon Group, Hospital Housekeeping Systems, Rush Enter-  prises, and Nustar Energy. Software Consultant Berry Aviation Inc - San Marcos, TX June 2017 to August 2017 Proposed a new design for Berry's flight operations system. Recommended to man- agement a replacement of BAI's FoxPro-based flight ops system with a modern  cloud-native microservices deployment. Camie iPhone App - Boerne, TX June 2013 to September 2014 Published solely-developed iPhone app to the App Store in December 2013. It al- lowed users to scan documents and save them into a simple organization scheme. Education Bachelor of Science in Physics Texas A&M University - College Station, TX May 2019 Additional Information SKILLS Languages: Go, Swift, Python, Java, Ruby, LTEX, HTML, Javascript,  A    Technologies: Tensorflow, Docker, Kubernetes, React, Ruby on Rails,  Methodologies: Continuous Integration, Version Control (Git), TDD,    LINKS https://github.com/dillonlpeterson