Sr. Front End Python Developer Sr. Front End <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Python Developer - First United Bank TX ? Over 5+ years of experience as a User Interface/ Front End Developer in working with various web technologies such as HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript framework, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, SASS, LESS and object-oriented JavaScript Libraries like ES6, Angular.js, Node.js, React.js, Redux, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Responsive Design.  ? Experience in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions in MySQL, Oracle and PostgreSQL database.  ? Designed presentation layer for dynamic web forms using ASP.Net MVC 5.0 Framework, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Angular 2 and Visual Studio.  ? Experience in using NoSQL databases like MongoDB and Apache Cassandra.  ? Used WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL & Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Experience various object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  ? Good Knowledge in efficiently using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Visual Studio, sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, emacs.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Experience in developing UI applications using Angular JS, Backbone JS, Ext JS, Node JS, JavaScript, J Query, CSS3.  ? Developed Application to asses JSON and XML from Restful web service from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.js.  ? Extensive experience in Angular.js 1.x/ Angular 2 with creating custom directives, filters, controllers and decorators.  ? Expert in developing Cross Browser applications in IE 8 - 11 Edge, Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Safari.  ? Proficient in using AJAX for implementing dynamic Web Pages where the content was fetched via API calls and updated the DOM (JSON Parsing).  ? Experience in designing Database systems and writing SQL queries to perform CRUD operations on databases.  ? Worked on MEAN stack-based application and vast knowledge in creating Restful API using MongoDB and Express.  ? Extensively used services to access data required for the UI components. Defined security policies and enforced HTTP and SOAP securities.  ? Strong experience with Cross Browser Compatibility issues and Optimization for web, including CSS Sprites and best practices.  ? Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 3.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) compressor, jshint, eslint, JQuery, HTML, & CSS to develop valid code and table-free sties.  ? Strong Understanding and knowledge in developing professional AJAX driven elegant Enterprise Applications using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Experience on working with CSS properties like CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements, and CSS behaviors in CSS.  ? Developed various objects using java and HTML and DHTML to maintain well-structured GUI and to interact with Controllers to get data from Oracle database  ? Experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements analysis, applications design, development, Integration, maintenance, installation, and implementation and testing of various client/server and web applications.  ? Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication & have experience on Docker, Amazon Web services (AWS) technologies.  ? Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like IE, Mozilla Firefox, and Chrome.  ? Proficient in developing web pages quickly and efficiently using: HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, AngularJS and JQuery while making webpage responsive and cross browser compatibility Knowledge of version control systems Git, SVN. Experience in software configuration management using SVN.  ? Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 3.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) compressor, jshint, eslint, JQuery, HTML, & CSS to develop valid code and table-free sties.  ? Experience in using Version Control Systems like Git, SVN and CVS.  ? Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting.  ? Experience in using AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architecture.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Enthusiastically managed multiple deadlines with priorities through proactively planning and managing tasks and resources.  ? Strong knowledge in Multi-tiered Distributed Environment and Client/ Server Architecture.  ? Good Knowledge in continuous integration tools like JENKINS.  ? Performed unit testing, Performance testing, integration testing and system testing.  ? Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM) and Water Fall. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front End Python Developer First United Bank - Durant, OK February 2019 to Present Responsibilities-  ? Developed UI using HTML 5, Bootstrap, JQuery, and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  ? Used Ajax effectively to create pagination and with client side events like quick search. \  ? Used angular, JQuery and java to connect with database and develop API's  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  ? Using Google analytics reports, optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS.  ? Worked on enterprise applications using JS MVC frameworks (Angular), Creating Custom directives and dependency injection.  ? Developed Tabbed pages using AJAX with jQuery and JSON for quick view of related content, providing both functionality and ease of access to the user.  ? Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.JS and Ext.JS.  ? Worked with waterfall methodology environment. nvolved to implement various screens for the front end using Angular.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  ? Designed React UI Components by using various frameworks, for the construction of web application.  ? Developed UI and pagination using React.js and Node.js.  ? Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  ? Created Web back- end user interfaces to new and existing databases utilizing PHP and MySQL/Oracle databases  ? Used Java Servlets, JSPs, AJAX, XML, HTML, and CSS for developing the Web component of the application.  ? Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON.  ? Worked with Project Managers and other members of the Development Team to both develop detailed specification documents with clear project deliverables and timelines, and to ensure timely completion of deliverables  ? Worked closely with product managers, developers and internal stakeholders throughout the product design.  ? Designated UI architecture for the internal web application and worked with designers to constructs conceptual Wireframes and Mockups.  ? Extensively used JQuery in implementing various GUI components in application portal.  ? Developed web solution from templates with dynamic user controls, prototypes, table less layouts, and HTML document standards using ASP.NET and integrate with JQUERY, JavaScript, CSS.  ? Involved in providing pseudo application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Built a robust and secure CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM for few projects as per clients' needs and requirements where HTML, CSS, AJAX and JQUERY were extensively used  Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as jQuery, Angular JS 1.X and Bootstrap using Subversion for version control.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  ? Assisted in designing and management of PostgreSQL database schemas and tables.  ? Implemented a separate query processing using LINQ and created data entry web applications, with LINQ to SQL CRUD operations. Front End Python Developer Cellular One - Alto, TX January 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities-  ? Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front- end programming (HTML) for a web application that matches requirements.  ? Built Single Page Applications (SPA), Responsive Web Design (RWD) UI, Rich Restful Service Applications, and HTML Wireframes using HTML5 Grid Structures/Layouts, CSS3 Media Queries, Ajax, AngularJS and Bootstrap Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, Beautiful soup for web crawling.  ? Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-full server on a different domain.  ? Experience in Web applications like blog maintenance, Library Management, social networking and mobile apps using HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOM, AJAX.  ? Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) integrated with RWD (Responsive Web Design) to apply layout styles for varying screen sizes and pixels  ? Used webpack to bundle Typescript and JavaScript modules and used Scaffolding tools like Yeoman to create the skeleton of the web application. Utilize package mangers like Bower and NPM.  ? Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS. Extensively worked in defect maintenance of Front End issues  ? Developed GUI using Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Developed and Consumed RESTful APIs for web applications using Python and Django.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Developed Python/Django based web application, MySQL DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, Storage services.  ? Involved in coding for webpages in desktop mobile and tablet and also worked on Accessibility part to make webpages accessible for keyboard and mouse users.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Ba  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  ? Designed and developed transactions and persistence layers to save/retrieve/modify data for application functionalities using Django, XML, PostgreSQL, SQL, and Stored Procedures.  ? Used Python for dynamically generating property list for every application. Automated data movements using python scripts. Involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval. Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Analyzed performance test requirements and developed test plans and have done debugging to understand test objective requirements.  ? Basis used Jira for tracking the stories, Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website.  ? Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process. Python Developer Cardinal Health August 2016 to December 2017 Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  ? Implemented DAO database access objects.  ? Worked with application teams to install operating system, Hadoop updates, patches, version upgrades as required.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Creating the automated build and deployment process for application, re-engineering setup for better user experience, and leading up to building a continuous integration system for all our products.  ? Deployment of application on Web logic 8.1 for testing and development team.  ? Validate test content in Emulation for SoC Display Controller.  ? Associated with development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Experience working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS along with JavaScript task runners like Grunt.  ? Responsive web design(RWD) is developed using frameworks like Angular JS and MVC frameworks and Bootstrap.  ? Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY/AJAX.  ? Developed various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  ? React.js which allowed us to render pages on both the client and server using the same codebase.  ? Used React.js for adding client-side interface for JavaScript templating and function binding & Written and modified the technical documents. Software Engineer Capgemini - Dublin, OH May 2014 to July 2016 Used JavaScript, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web.  ? Used AJAX with jQuery to parse JSON object to dynamically overlay contents on web pages.  ? Worked on CSS to design the navigation, gradient background and used other style properties to enhance the look of the web page.  ? Worked in all areas of Jenkins setting up CI/CD for new branches, build automation, plugin management and securing Jenkins and setting up master/develop configurations.  ? Accomplished in database design and hands-on experience of large database systems: DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL, SQL Server, MySQL.  ? Actively involved in project development and bug fixing for the project. Worked closely with students, helped in the deeper understanding of concepts.  ? Involved in requirement analysis and client interaction, responsible for writing hibernate mapping XML Files, HQL.  ? Worked closely with business analysts, project managers and project leaders to analyze business requirements.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like Factory, Singleton. Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design and development.  ? Enthusiastic Java Developer eager to learn cutting edge technologies and produce quality software.  ? Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams using UML to decide upon the modules.  ? Developed ER diagrams for database design. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science The University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX 2018 Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills Angular, Front End, UI, Javascript, React, Angularjs, Front-End, Jquery, Java, HTML5, User Interface, Bootstrap, Node Additional Information Skills  ? Programming Languages: Python, Java/J2EE, JavaScript, PHP, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Frameworks: Django, MongoDB, AngularJS, Django Rest Framework, Flask, Hibernate, Spring MVC, ASP.NET MVC.  ? Web Technologies: Node.js, HTML5, JSP, XHTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JQuery, JQuery UI, Ajax, Web Services, REST API's.  ? Databases: MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Oracle (10G, 11G).  ? Industrial Tools: Selenium IntelliJ, Eclipse, MAMP, Git, Bitbucket, NetBeans , Spring Tool Suite, Visual Studio Jenkins, Jira, Agile, LiClipse.  ? Platforms: Linux, Unix, Windows.  ? SDLC: Waterfall, Agile, Scrum.  ? Web Servers: Web Sphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat.