Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Charter Communications • Over 4.1+ years of IT Experience in design, development, testing and implementation of various stand-alone and client-server-based enterprise applications.  • Hands on experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Django, Flask web application frameworks.  • Exposure in working for developing a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Extensive experience of object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced with all aspects of technology projects including Business Requirements, Technical Architecture, Design Specification, Development and Deployment.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python 2/3, Django 1.4/1.3, Vue JS, JAVA, CSS, Bootstrap, HTML, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Experienced in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Proficient in NoSQL, SQLite databases with Python and JavaScript.  • Understanding of Python Best Practices (PEP-8).  • Experienced in creating web applications with Python Flask.  • Created RESTful API's using Python. Experience in configuring EC2 Instances for app deployment in production  • Designed applications implementing MVC architecture Django frame work.  • Experienced with Core Python and Django.  • More than 4 years of Professional Web Apps development experience using Django inclusive of experience in UI using JavaScript, NodeJS,AWS,Cloud.  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create an easily accessible website interface for users.  • Experienced in writing the python scripts and tracking customer development.  • Familiarity with implementing Model view control architecture using Django for web-based applications.  • Creating repositories in GitHub for version controlling.  • Setting up databases in AWS using RDS and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Experience in setting up Elastic Load Balancers (ELB's) and Auto Scaling groups on Production EC2 Instances to build Fault-Tolerant and High Availability applications.  • Experienced in Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services such as EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, Elastic Load Balancer.  • Good knowledge on hosting Python applications using WSGI modules.  • Worked in AGILE methodologies and various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Good Experience in requirement gathering, use case development, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Very strong experience writing API's and Web Services in Python.  • Excellent communication skills, team player, quick learner, organized, and self-motivated.  • Worked in fast pace Agile environments and actively participated in Scrum and Sprint meetings  • Experienced in working with and administering different operating systems Windows, UNIX/LINUX and strong knowledge of Linux systems administration and operations. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Charter Communications - Denver, CO July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matches requirements of the company.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Excellent Coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Created the Automation scripts using Python for testing applications as well as the integration of these application (API's &UI's) based on REST calls using Python, phrasing the JSON responses  • Utilized PyTest, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB  • Deployment and Build of various environments including Linux and UNIX  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML and CSS.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mockups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  • Rewrite existing Python /Django module to deliver certain format of data.  • Improved user experience by creating and designing new web components and features.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users.  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Designing and deploying scalable, highly available, and fault tolerant systems on AWS and developed programs using Python, Shell, Java Scripts and Restful API's developed for Node.JS applications.  • Configuring IAM roles for EC2 instances in ELB and assign them policies granting specific level access to S3 buckets by customizing JSON template designed Stacks using Amazon Cloud Formation templates to launch Infrastructure, Used Code Commit to host secure, scalable private Git repositories.  • Launching Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Build application and database servers using AWS EC2.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors).  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Followed MVC Structure to develop Application.  • Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Chrome) on both Windows.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.    Environment: Python, Django, SQL, AJAX, REST, JavaScript, AWS, UNIX, HTML, Sublime Text. Python Developer Department of Health and Human Services, NC January 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Implemented front end for third party Web service using HTML, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework.  • Designed, added and maintained new database tables for new functions.  • Analyzes and improves application efficiency by optimizing queries and contents for Django/Flask.  • Used Django framework to design and develop the application.  • Used HTML5/CSS, Bootstrap, and JavaScript for UI development.  • Developed Python scripts using multithreading module.  • Used Restful API's with JSON, XML to extract Network traffic information.  • Created the Automation scripts using Python for testing applications as well as the integration of these application (API's &UI's) based on REST calls using Python, phrasing the JSON responses.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control.  • Developed UI using HTML, JavaScript, and JSP, and developed Business Logic and Interfacing components  • Using Business Objects, XML, and JDBC.  • Designed user-interface and checking validations using JavaScript.  • Managed connectivity using JDBC for querying/inserting & data management including triggers and stored procedures.  • Worked as a developer on Core Java, Collections and multithreading.    • Implemented Master Eligibility Verification model. Allowed systems perform all eligibility.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Implemented DAO database access objects.  • Associated with development of Web Services using RestAPI for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format.  • Designed and developed reporting modules for the application and implemented the pagination.  • Worked on operating systems like Linux, MAC, Windows.  • Associated with code review and code test.  • Responsible for new development and change request within the scope of the project.    Environment: Python, JavaScript, SQL, Ajax, HTML, CSS, Linux, Web services Python Developer Trinity Health Organization - Livonia, MI August 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Interceptors, validators, actions using Django1.7 framework.  • Extensively used Django Technologies, which includes forms, templates and ORM for  • communication with Database in different forms.  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life  • Cycle (SDLC).  • Used Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for Software Development.  • Developed the applications using Django 1.7 MTV Framework which is based on Model Template  • View design pattern.  • Developed Custom Tags to simplify the template code. Designed UI screens using templates, Ajax,  • HTML, and JSON. Used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Developed the database tier using Django ORM.  • Used RestAPI for sending and getting data from different applications using JSON such as task details  from Work distribution  • Used Django framework for creating the Web Services.  • Used JavaScript/Ajax and Bootstrap to develop Interactive Webpages and Single Page  • Applications.  • Used Pylint framework for unit testing of applications.  • Developed restful Web-services using Django Rest framework in Python.  • Used GIT for version control and used PyCharm for development.  • Participated in User Acceptance Test, Requirements Gathering etc.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, Django Rest framework, Rest, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, GIT, Pylint, MySQL, PyCharm, Windows Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, Django, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Ajax, Css, Web server, Mysql, Linux, Java, Mongodb, Version control Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems Windows, Linux  Languages JAVA, Python2.x/3.x, Shell Script  Framework Django Web framework  Databases MySQL, Sqlite3, MongoDB  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap  Code version control tool GIT  Web Server Node.js  Tools & Framework Visual Studio, PyCharm