Java Full Stack Developer Java Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer Fremont, CA • OVER 5 Years of experience in analysis, design, implementation and testing of ObjectOriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE and UI technology stacks.  • Experience working with various methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model,TDD,Iterations.  • Proficiency working with frontend frameworks such as jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, Node.js,ExpressJS, ReactJS, BackBoneJS, AngularJS, Angular2.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in developing entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL.  • Experience with Java EE design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, DAO, DTO.  • Strong experience inJSF, StrutsandSpring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP and Spring JDBC, Spring JTA, Spring IO, Spring Boot with Thymeleafand Spring Security Framework for User Access Management.  • Strong understanding of Microservice patterns - Hystrix, Aggregator, Proxy chaining.  • Developed applications using latest technologies like EJB3.0, Spring Boot, Hibernate3.2/4.x, and REST based Web services (axis2.0, JAX WS 2.0), Rule Engines (Drools4.1, ILOG), XML API and tools.  • Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes with database and using HQL, Named Queries, Transactions, Cache, Criteria, Projections.  • Experience in working with Service Oriented Architecture that includes (UDDI) lookups & (WSDL) using SOAP.  • Analyzed, developed and implemented various Design patterns (Session Façade, Value Object, DAO, DTO, Command, Singleton, Factory, Adapter, MVC, Service Locator etc.) using J2EE technologies.  • Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic and JBoss Servers.  • Experienced in writing complex SQL queries, procedures, Triggers and Stored Procedures in various databases such as Oracle, DB2MySQL and Sybase.Also, extensively worked onNoSQLDatabases like MongoDBandCassandra.  • Experienced in integration, deployment and building using tools likeANT, Maven, Jenkins, Kubernetes & Docker.  • Experience in debugging and logging using the log framework - log4j and analysis and reporting with Splunk.  • Experience in JUnit frame work with Mockito and Power Mock, SpringJunitRunner.  • Experienced in development using IDE's such as Eclipse,Rational Application Developer (RAD), NetBeans, IntelliJ.  • Proficient in using AWS. Extensive experience focusing on services like EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, RDS, ElastiCache, SNS, SQS, Dynamo DB, Lambda.  • Good Knowledge in Apache Active MQ Series withApacheCamel, JMS, Kafka messaging queues.  • Experience in using different version controlling/tracking systems Subversion, CVS, GIT, and Rational Clear Case. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO January 2018 to July 2019 Project Description:  Express Scripts provides integrated pharmacy benefit management services including network-pharmacy,  claims processing, home delivery pharmacy services, specialty pharmacy benefit management through its  subsidiary Accredit, benefit-design consultation, drug-utilization review, formulary management, medical  and drug data analysis services to manage drug plans for health plans, self-insured employers and government agencies (both as administrator of employee benefits and public assistance programs).    Responsibilities:  • FollowedAgile (SCRUM) methodologies and developed Technical design documents.  • Extensively worked on modern MEAN Stack- MongoDB, Express.JS, AngularJS, and Node.JS.  • Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing jQuery, Node.js.Modularized front-end CSS and JavaScript code with SASS. Built a real-time mouse/click user analytics web service with Node.js  • Developed various screens for the front end using Angular2 and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).UsedNode Cron package to schedule periodically executable jobs.  • Used various features in Angular2 like data binding, routing, custom filters, custom directives to meet various customized requirements.Used the http services in Angular2 to make RESTAPI calls and exchange data in JSON.  • Perform S3 buckets creation, policies and the IAM role based polices.  • Created monitors, alarms, and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.Developed Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Worked with Microservices related frameworks Spring Ribbon, Eureka for client-side load balancer and network discovery.Also,Integrated with Spring Cloud Netflix's components like Eureka (Service Discovery), Hystrix (Circuit Breaker), Ribbon (Client-Side Load Balancing) and Zuul Proxy.  • Spring BootMicroservices were developed with microservice architecture using REST and Apache Kafka.  • Created REST based web services by establishing links using HATEOAS from Spring based application.  • Implemented Hibernate Template to use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries, validations& interfaces like Expression, Query & Criteria. Implemented Hibernate/JPA for data persistence.  • Used ELK for reporting, monitoring logging, debugging and error tracing. Worked on purging logs on Elastic Search DB and KibanaUI. Also involved in trouble-shooting logs using Logstash and Kibana.  • Provided dev support for IBM's API ConnectandDataPower appliances in a multi-tiered environment.  • Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services.  • Used Mongo DB(NoSQL) for database services. Created/managed Mongo DB/NoSQL collections.  • Built Docker Images and have run them on Docker container.Deployed Docker contained Spring boot micro services in to AWS EC2 container service using AWSadminconsole and used lambda to run applications in AWS.  • Used Maven to configure, build and deploy the Modules. Also, integrated these scripts with Jenkins.  • Involved in evolution of test automation framework based on Selenium, TestNG and Cucumber.  • Used Selenium WebDriver for automating functional testing & to identify various critical points applications.  • Executed Selenium test scripts on different browsers and checked for compatibility.  • Worked on GITasVersionControlSystem to track various code conflicts of the project.    Environment: Java 8.0, Spring Boot, hibernate 4.2, Spring batch/security/JTA/Boot, JPA, JavaScript, NodeJS, Angular2, HTML5, CSS, WAS 8.5, Microservices, RAD 8.0, Oracle 11g, Maven, log4j, Junit, XML, Web Services, Kafka, Splunk, GIT. Python Developer Caterpillar - Mossville, IL November 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the project life cycle including design, development and implementation and verification and validation  • Developed the application front end using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Django framework.  • Extensively utilized Python frameworks like Django, Flask, Sanic, PyUnit and libraries like matplotlib.  • Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frame works.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts, matplotlib for data visualization of sales, tracking progress, identifying trends.  • Developed data-accessible web applications for employee accesses using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Django.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library(Tweepy), Used JSON to store the twitter data which was further represented using matplotlib visualization and generated graphical reports for business decision using matplotlib library.  • Participate in the design, build and deployment of NoSQL implementations like MongoDB.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Proficient using Python packages such as NumPy, SciPy, Requests, matPlotLib, Pickle, Pandas, PySide, wxPython, QT, PyGTK, PyTables and Scikit-learn, Fragment.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Integrated to Google Cloud platform for large scale computing workloads.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, also conducted meetings among Team.  • Developed server based web traffic using RESTful API's statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Wrote PL/SQL views, Stored Procedures, database triggers & Packages.  • Implemented table sorting feature on the webpages regardless of the type of data types with the use of JavaScript.  • Enhanced by adding Python XML SOAP request/response handlers to add accounts, modify trades and security updates.  • Recording of Scripts Web Services HTML using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods.  • Worked with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/10i and MySQL databases to query and read data.  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  • Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Implemented continuous integration using Jenkins and involved in the deployment of application with Ansible automation engine.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI testing using Pytest and web application testing using Selenium Python bindings.  • Designed many UML diagrams in Magic Draw for generating C++ code on the fly.  • Used Embedded Coder for translating models into model source code and executable in QNX Real Time Operating System(RTOS) single-tasking mode.  • Writing the assembly language program and debugging.  • Developed applications in QT creator.  • Conversion of the analog to a digital voltmeter with the help assembly language and plc programming.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Debugged and Tested Android app using Charles debugging session as man-in-middle proxy and monitored traffic flow through the devices.  • logged user stories and acceptance criteria in JIRA for features by evaluating output requirements and formats.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.    Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Hadoop, Django 1.7, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, PostgreSQL, T-SQL, MongoDB, SoapUI, Vugen, DockerOracle 11g/10i, Charles Web Debugging, Ansible, MySQL, Google Cloud, Amazon AWS S3, Bugzilla, JIRA. Python Developer Polaris Software Lab Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Documented the design documents using Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using IBM Rational rose.  • Used Python scripts language on LAMP Server to develop web-application with MySQL as the database.  • Used Python libraries like beautiful soup, matplotlib, PyTest, Tweepy, urllib2.  • Utilized CherryPy coupled with Nginx to serve Python WSGI based applications.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask-SQLAlchemy with Oracle database.  • Extensively used XML and RESTful Web Services to retrieve and send data from different applications.  • Used CVS as a version control software.  • Implemented the garbage collection in python with CPython for detecting reference cycles.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Involved in optimizing the python program by following best practices with different Data structures that best enhances the performance of application.  • Created Several XML Schemas and Developed Stored PL/SQL Procedures and Packages to automatically create and drop table indexes.  • Worked closely with release management team to coordinate pending defects.  • Created Reports using Tableau and Tested Test scripts manually for Web services.  • Experience in creating test cases using PyUnit framework and used fiddler as logging tool to get detailed report of traffic between clients.  • Involved in doing AGILE practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile meetings and SPRINT meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, CherryPy, HTML, CSS, XML, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, SQLAlchemy, IBM Rational Rose, Oracle 11g/10i, MySQL, Toad, Tableau, REST web services, Flask 0.7, LAMP. Education Doctoral of Philosophy in Information technology University of Cumberlands 2018 to Present Master's Degree in Computer secience University of Cumberlands 2015 to 2016 Bachelor Degree in Computer secience CMJ University 2010 to 2014 Skills AngularJS (1 year), Apache (1 year), API (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), CSS (3 years), database (3 years), GIT. (1 year), HTML (2 years), Java (1 year), JavaScript (3 years), jQuery (3 years), Junit (1 year), MongoDB (2 years), MySQL (2 years), Oracle (3 years), PL/SQL (2 years), SQL (2 years), testing (2 years), web services (3 years), XML (3 years), Node, Angular, React, Python Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages/API Java 5/6/7/8, Java/J2EE, C, C++, JDBC, DTD, UML, Design Patterns, Shell Scripts, HTML, PHP, JavaScript, SQL and PL/SQL  ORM Frameworks Hibernate, JSF.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DHTML, Servlets, JSPs, EJB, JNDI, JMS, XML, XSLT, XSD, JSF, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Node.js, ReactJs, BackBoneJs, Bootstrap.  Web/AppServers Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x/7.x/8.x, IBM WebSphere, BEA Web Logic12.x, J-Boss 6.x/7.x  IDE's Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD and Rational Rose, IntelliJ 14.x/15.x, Spring Tool suite 2.x/3.x  Database Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, PL, Sybase 12.5, DB2, Cassandra and MongoDB  Web Services AXIS, SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-B and Restful  Version Control Git,GitHub,SVN,CVS  Build Tool / plugin ANT, Log4j and Maven 3.x, Gradle, Jenkins 2.x  Testing Frameworks Junit, Jtest, Mockito and Power Mock