DevOps/AWS Engineer DevOps/AWS Engineer DevOps Engineer Hicksville, NY AWS Certified Developer Associate with 3 Years of Experience in DevOps, Build, Release Management, Configuration Management and Quality Assurance in Linux/Windows and VMware environment & AWS Services. Work Experience DevOps/AWS Engineer Broadridge, NYC - New York, NY May 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Administering AWS Cloud Infrastructure based on Linux/Windows OS.  • Depth knowledge on AWS Cloud services like - EC2, VPC, ELB, Auto-Scaling, Security groups, Route53, IAM, EBS, AMI, RDS, S3, SNS, SQS, CloudFront, CloudFormation and CloudWatch.  • Responsible for Service Delivery of the infrastructure of one or more applications, specifically as a part of the Wealth Delivery team.  • As an AWS Secret Manager responsible for setting Parameter store values which helps in creating QA environment through Terraform scripts.  • Assist in disaster recovery and business continuity planning and testing.  • Good working knowledge in AWS IAM Service: IAM Policies, Roles, Users, Groups, AWS Access Keys and Multi Factor Authentication.  • Configure AWS VPC with public and private subnets, configured Routing tables, Internet gateway, ACL's, Security groups.  • Working on AWS cloud to provision new instances, S3 Storage Services, AWS EC2, Cloud watch services and CI/CD pipeline management through Jenkins.  • Facilitate regular project meetings and follows up with team members as required to focus on both the technical and the operational issues or business issues. Document, assign and monitor all project issues or related incidents to ensure clearance with minimal impact to project progress.  Environment: Nexus, AWS VPC, S3, Jenkins, AWS Secret Manager, EC2, Terraform. DevOps Engineer BNYM, NYC - New York, NY November 2018 to May 2019 Responsibilities:  • We used Ansible to move 250+ applications to a newer kind of originated replaced servers. To automate delivery of this applications, we segregated everything by roles.  • Used Terraform to build servers and configured using ansible with dynamic inventory. Involved in Provisioning IAC for CI/CD pipeline with Terraform modules.  • Created playbooks for deploying of Linux and windows on vmware vsphere, vmware_guest modules in Ansible.  • Involved in writing various custom playbooks for deployment orchestration and developed Playbooks to simplify and automate day-to-day server administration tasks.  • Used Windows Chocolatey package manager to build own packages internally and integrated with infrastructure management tool like Ansible.  • Worked extensively on automation engine Ansible that automates cloud provisioning, configuration management, application deployment, intra-service orchestration.  • Used AWX to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deployed critical applications and proactively managed the changes and to run ansible playbooks which make calls to Nexus and artifactory repositories for necessary packages and binaries.  Environment: Windows Chocolatey, Terraform, Jenkins, Ansible, AWX, Gitlab, YAML, Jira, SonarQube. Cloud DevOps Engineer AWS - Cary, NC May 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Experienced Cloud and DevOps engineer in Automating, Configuring and deploying instances on AWS Cloud environment and Data centers.  • Performed deployment of Amazon EC2 instances and provisioned on AWS environment and implemented Security Groups, administered VPCs.  • Written Cloud Formation Templates (CFT) in JSON and YAML format to build the AWS services with the paradigm of Infrastructure as a Code.  • Used AWS Route53, to route the traffic between different availability zones. Deployed and supported AWS Elastic-Cache and then Configured Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) for routing traffic between zones.  • Recently migrated on premise virtual machines to Amazon Web Services by exporting the VM image on a VMDK format.  • Installed and Implemented Ansible configuration management system. Used Ansible to manage Web applications, Environments configuration Files, Users, Mount points and Packages.  • Maintained high availability clustered and standalone server environments and refined automation components with scripting and configuration management (Ansible) and experienced in writing Ansible scripts.  • Experience with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker-registries and Kubernetes.  • Kubernetes is being used to orchestrate the deployment, scaling and management of Docker Containers.  • Created and maintained continuous integration (CI) using tools Jenkins/Gradle over different environments to facilitate an agile development process which is automated and repeatable enabling teams to safely deploy code many times a day while ensuring operational best practices are supported.  • Used GIT for source code version control and integrated with Jenkins for CI/CD pipeline, code quality tracking and user management with build tools Maven and Ant.  • Automated the build and release management process including monitoring changes between releases.  • Implemented SonarQube to measure code coverage, code standard compliance, code duplication, and unit test results. Implemented backup process for Bitbucket, JIRA, and Confluence.  • Worked on JIRA Agile projects like creating scrum boards, configured columns, filters and reports for sprints.  Environment: AWS, S3, Cloud Formation, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer (ELB), Kubernetes, Ruby, Auto Scaling Groups, VPC, IAM, Cloud Watch, Glacier, Jenkins, Ansible, Maven, Subversion, Ant, Bash Scripts, GIT, Docker, Jira, SonarQube. Python DevOps Developer (Intern) World Wide Technology - Charlotte, NC January 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using python on Django web framework on SQL Server.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  • Experience in writing Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Involved in DevOps processes for build and deploy systems. Worked on CI tool Jenkins for continuous integration and for End-to-End automation for build and deployments.  • Installed and administered Jenkins CI server for continuous build of java projects.  • Administered and Engineered Jenkins for managing weekly Build, Test and Deploy chain, GIT with Dev/Test/Prod Branching Model for weekly releases.  • Designed and Scripting using Maven for (J2EE, Web Services, JARS, Web Client and Open Source) in creating Master Build.xml in CICD.  • Installed and configured an automated tool Puppet that included the installation and configuration of the Puppet master, agent nodes and an admin control workstation  • Wrote Puppet manifests for deploying, configuring, install shield and managing collected for metric collection and monitoring.  • Used bash/shell scripting to do administrative automation tasks including, installing, configuring, managing files, users, and repositories, applications, debugging, and troubleshooting.  • Resolving escalated issues and writing Shell (bash), python scripts for regular activities.  • Worked on creating multiple AWS instances, set the Security groups, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs, Auto scaling to design cost effective, fault tolerant and highly available systems.  • Developed AWS Lambda functions for application/servers monitoring, logging analysis and notifications, code deployments. Establishing connection between AWS lambda and DynamoDB for interaction between API and database.  • Experience in working on source controller tools like GitHub (GIT) . Deploying code changes and patches (security) to QA and production servers. Experience in systems performance monitoring tools like Nagios.  Environment: Python, Django, Puppet, Python Scripting, Shell Scripting, Jenkins, Maven, Vagrant, Linux, SVN, GIT, Tomcat, Ant, Nexus, Nagios. Linux Administrator Mphasis - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Creating and managing user and service accounts.  • Reviewing system log files for errors, monitoring system performance and setting up cron jobs for backups and monitoring processes.  • Experienced in task like managing User Accounts, Groups, isks management and File systems in Linux  platform.  • RPM and YUM package installations, patch and server management.  • Creating Templates for Linux VM's those are used for deploying for the environments.  • Experience in system audit report like number of logins, success & failures.  • Monitors system performance of Virtual Memory, managing swap space, disk utilization and CPU utilization.  • Collaborated with developers to load software onto Linux Enterprise servers and debugging Scripts.  • Experience with Virtualization technologies such as installing, configuring, and administering VMware  ESX/ESX 6 5.5, Red Hat environment.  • Configured networking interface like set up IP addresses and IPv6 address, working knowledge on DHCP, DNS, and routing.  • Developed, implemented and updated maintenance plans for deployed systems, including patching, monitoring and service.  • Creates user accounts and group accounts for developers.  • Maintained and monitored all of company's servers operating system and application patch level, disk space and memory usage, user activities on day-to-day basis.  • Performed routine LVM tasks like replacing failed drives, adding new volume groups, extending volume  groups/LVM/file system, exporting and importing volume group for hardware migration.  • Troubleshooting of day-to-day problems including the network issues, file storage, application issues, and memory.  • Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Subversion (SVN)  Environment: Ubuntu Trust 11.04, 11.10, CentOS 6, Linux, Apache, Tomcat, Django Servers,  SVN, MySQL/PostgreSQL. DevOps/AWS Engineer Broadridge ·        Administering AWS Cloud Infrastructure based on Linux/Windows OS.  ·        Depth knowledge on AWS Cloud services like - EC2, VPC, ELB, Auto-Scaling, Security groups, Route53, IAM, EBS, AMI, RDS, S3, SNS, SQS, CloudFront, CloudFormation and CloudWatch.  ·        Responsible for Service Delivery of the infrastructure of one or more applications, specifically as a part of the Wealth Delivery team.  ·        As an AWS Secret Manager responsible for setting Parameter store values which helps in creating QA environment through Terraform scripts.  ·        Assist in disaster recovery and business continuity planning and testing.  ·        Good working knowledge in AWS IAM Service: IAM Policies, Roles, Users, Groups, AWS Access Keys and Multi Factor Authentication.  ·        Configure AWS VPC with public and private subnets, configured Routing tables, Internet gateway, ACL's, Security groups.  ·        Working on AWS cloud to provision new instances, S3 Storage Services, AWS EC2, Cloud watch services and CI/CD pipeline management through Jenkins.  ·        Facilitate regular project meetings and follows up with team members as required to focus on both the technical and the operational issues or business issues. Document, assign and monitor all project issues or related incidents to ensure clearance with minimal impact to project progress.  Environment: Nexus, AWS VPC, S3, Jenkins, AWS Secret Manager, EC2, Terraform. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Arkansas State University - Jonesboro, AR Skills C, Pipeline, C++, CI/CD, Git Lab, Ubuntu, Puppet, Maven, Git Hub, ANT, Cloudwatch, Java/J2EE, Jenkins, Kubernetes, Vagrant, Jfrog, Chocolatey, DevOps, ElasticCache, SQL, Amazon Web Services, Terraform, SaaS, Centos, Docker, Redhat, PaaS, Ansible, Pyhton, AWS Services, Linux, Nagios, Windows, Iaas, EKS, Chef, Git, AWS Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems Windows, Red hat, Centos and Ubuntu.  Source control Tools GIT LAB, GIT Hub.  Build Tools ANT, MAVEN and Gradle.  CI Tools Jenkins.  Configuration Management Tools Ansible, Puppet, Chef and Docker.  Languages C, C++, Shell and Yaml scripting, Python, SQL.  Repositories Nexus Artifactory, Jfrog repository.  Cloud Environment Amazon Web Services  Virtualization Tools VMware, Virtual box and Vagrant