Social Media Management Assistant Social Media Management Assistant Social Media Management Assistant - FlashTech Creative Lake Forest, CA Self-motivated, friendly, highly ambitious professional. Work well under pressure and deliver quality results. Exceptional communication skills with a keen sense to develop productive relationships. Quick learner with the ability to think outside the box. Experienced in technology and development of customer centric solutions. Interested in joining a company where I can apply my business, social media, and technical skills in areas of artificial intelligence, internet of things, automation and robotics. Work Experience Social Media Management Assistant FlashTech Creative - Orange County, California, US July 2018 to Present Manage multiple social media channels for various clients using Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Google+, Instagram, YouTube, Snapchat  ? Create organic social media content and keep it relevant and up-to date  ? Provide administrative and customer support services  ? Consult on creative strategies for new clients Sales Associate Urban Outfitters - Irvine, CA August 2017 to February 2018 Provided personalized service and exceptional expertise to customers  ? Collaborated with management and peers, shared ideas with the team and actively participated in daily meetings, store projects and brand focus and awareness  ? Well-informed on in-store and online events and special offers Sales Associate Best Buy - Santa Ana, CA May 2017 to February 2018 Provided personalized service and exceptional expertise for customers  ? Handled all aspects of the sale including: customer contracts and warranties, customer payments, cash and credit card/check transactions  ? Maintained and communicated strong, up-to-date knowledge of wireless products Member Services Specialist Lifetime Fitness - Houston, TX November 2016 to April 2017 Houston, Texas 11/2016 - 04/2017    ? Provided a welcome admittance and validation to members in a professional manner  ? Input sales transactions, including program changes, services and product payments  ? Processed paperwork related to customer service needs and followed up on open tasks    Web Sciences LLC, A software and design technology firm servicing the needs of other technology companies. Web Designer/CRM Team Leader/ Python Software Developer Houston, TX September 2015 to August 2016 Assisted with the development of a lead generation system in python  ? Customized Salesforce.com per client specifications  ? Qualified incoming leads from various sources  ? Led initiative to design websites from wireframes to design phase and custom design for icons, logo, and graphics using Adobe Creative Cloud  ? Created email templates within the CRM and managed marketing campaigns Sales Associate Nike, Inc - Cypress, TX January 2013 to October 2013 Trained incoming sales associates for operating on the sales floor  ? Developed versatile customer service skills through solving complex customer product needs  ? Inventory management of footwear, apparel, and sports accessories  ? Top sales generator during the year Education Consumer Science University of Houston - Houston, TX August 2015 to Present Skills BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, SALES EXPERIENCE, WEB DESIGN, CRM, HTML, SALESFORCE.COM, CUSTOMER SERVICE, WORDPRESS, EXCELLENT COMMUNICATION SKILLS, MICROSOFT OFFICE, Facebook, Digital Marketing, Public Relation, Social Media