Jr. Python Developer Jr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Phoenix, AZ American Express - Digital Workplace Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Jr. Python Developer American Express September 2018 to Present • Designed the web application for team Logan as part of Pre-emptive Healing Initiative to resolve known system & network issues.   • Built web application in Angular 6 and NodeJS to enable remote access to technology concierge agents throughout the organization.•Implemented Sentiment Analysis using Python to classify the logs/errors to help in Preemptive healing program.   • Implemented Machine learning based predictive model for classification of High, Medium and Low Risk logs using NLTK tokenization.   • Connected applications to SignalRHub using Angular/Typescript to provide real time charts for CPU, Memory, Ethernet and Disk usage.   • Integrated APIs using Node.js and frameworks available such as Express, High Charts and ChartJs.   • Designed the app using Angular 6 to display the status of Device drivers, Processes, Certificates, Services and Registry entries.   • Designed the front-end web page to view and modify system performance indicators using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.   • Developed RESTAPI endpoints using NodeJS to ensure live data update to the server from the backend server. • Debugged code, participated in code reviews and created unit tests using Jasmine, Mocha, and Chai.   • Created user stories in Jira and followed Agile Methodologies throughout the implementation process. Data Scientist Method Data Science February 2019 to May 2019 • Analyzed and built custom dashboard to find look-alike audience using Plotly in Python.  • Report actionable, statistical, and analytical insights to executives for effective strategic positioning in marketplace.  • Shadow data scientists and assist in developing algorithms for predictive modeling.  • Used 10K+ sentiments to understand user sentiments over 2 months from Red Crown Consulting to understand customer reviews. • Implemented tokenization, used TF-IDF to down-weight the stop words and valuable input, in the training and test data. • Achieved 85%+ accuracy by training the model in algorithms such Logistic Regression, Random Forest, Support Vector Machine (SVM), K- Nearest Neighbor (KNN) and Naïve Bayes  • Scrutinize and track customer behaviour to identify trends and unmet needs. Senior Student worker Arizona State University October 2016 to May 2018 • Performed queries and retrieved data using SQL from HR database to obtain staff information.  • Wrote complex SQL queries using complex joins, grouping, and aggregation to increase efficiency and automate repeatable tasks.  • Created dashboards using VLOOKUP and Pivot table to view consolidated daily reports. Global Business Services, Application Consultant IBM July 2014 to June 2016 • Extracted data using complex SQL queries and created schemas required for the process team to estimate project completion dates.  • Identified, measured and recommended improvement strategies for KPIs across all business areas.  • Generate reports and recommendations based on the analysis to provide decision support functionalities.  • Assisted in offering support to other personnel who were required to access and analyze the SQL database. Education Master of Science in Industrial Engineering Arizona State University(ASU) - Tempe, AZ May 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Industrial Engineering Sri Jayachamarejendra College of Engineering June 2014 Skills Excel, SQL, access, testing, MS Office, Powerpoint, CSS, Git, Javascript, Python (2 years), Angular (1 year) Assessments Critical Thinking — Familiar June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ozi3erzsioev6itg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.