PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER - CITIBANK New York, NY • Extensive experience in Adobe Flex, Adobe Flash, ActionScript, and ColdFusion to build highly rich web application development sites for internal property information and gathering / entering property data.  • Real time reporting in internal SharePoint site using Adobe Flex API's along with Micro strategy API's. Involved in Adobe Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop - up dialogs, menus and skinning.  • Utilize ActionScript 3.0 to develop and maintain the Flash and live-streaming components of the company's websites. Utilize ActionScript 3.0 / Adobe AIR to develop and maintain several of the company's products, including its flagship product.  • Experience in application development using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, Git, Java\J2EE, JavaScript, Oracle, PostgreSQL and SQLite. Experience with ORM's such as Django and SQL, Alchamy, database design and normalization. Proficient skills of using PyUnit, PyTest for writing unit test cases.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP. Strong Experience in web-based UI design and interface development using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQUERY, AJAX and JSON.  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object oriented design and Programming concepts using Python and Django. Involved in web application development using ASP.Net, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Knockout, Bootstrap, PHP and Action script 3.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON. Developed dynamic webpages through HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX. Expertise in developing different web applications implementing the Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectures using Full stack frameworks such as Django, Zope and TurboGears.  • Experience in using Eclipse, PyCharm, Visual Studio, Pyscripter and Sublime Text while developing different application in python. Good knowledge on SOAP and JSON web services.  • Good experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) environment and good knowledge of AWS services like Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Elastic Load-balancers, Elastic Container Service (Docker Containers), S3, Elastic Beanstalk, Cloud Front, Elastic Filesystem, RDS, DMS, VPC, Route53, CloudWatch, CloudTrail, CloudFormation, IAM.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, JQuery, while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Knowledge on OpenStack software open source cloud computing software. Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and Angular JS.  • Designed and developed Cloud Service projects and deployed to Web Apps, PaaS, and IaaS and configured SQL Server Master Data Services (MDS) in Windows Azure IaaS.  • Expertise in CRUD operations with Mango DB using mongoose node module. Expertise using and deploying enterprise applications in JBoss AS and Tomcat. Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO. Worked on setting up the life cycle policies to back the data from AWS S3 to AWS Glacier, Worked with various AWS, EC2 and S3 CLI tools.  • Experience in NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB. Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER CITIBANK - New York, NY January 2018 to Present Responsibility:  • Designed and managed build and release methodologies using Witbe Tool. Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Design and develop CPD Test scripts for Droplet Generator steering system, with C, C++, Python, Linux Internal and driver interfaces.  • Developed Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based web services for different applications called User Service and other applications using Representational State Transfer (REST) based Web services.  • Developed the front end of the web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and AJAX. Decent experience in UNIX in developing the application and familiar with all of its commands.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record. Experience in writing SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Deployed Django web application in Apache web server and Carpathia's cloud operations. Written numerous Django views (class based) and templates for page rendering.  • Implemented the Backbone JS for DOM manipulation as this is the light web framework compared to Angular JS.  • Utilized Python Libraries like Boto3, NumPy for AWS. Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Developed efficient Angular.js for client web-based application.  • Implemented SOA based web services, designed and built SOAP web service interface. Created SOAP web services and SOAP handlers to store the SOAP messages. Performed Pytest and unit test on them. Extracted XML code from script for testing.  • Build JSON objects using the framework which will be used by JavaScript to control the flow of the page. Resolved performance related issues using efficient coding.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework. Performing Functional testing, regression testing, integration testing, and communication testing.  • Installed Witbe, Python, Jira, test Rail as part of server setups. Built AWS server for deployment and data processing. Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub, Nexus, Maven and AWS AMI's.  • Built various Flash mp3 players with ActionScript 3 reusable object code. Troubleshoot object classes for ActionScript/AMFPHP to optimize image compression.  • Worked on numerous Python modules. Built dB context, runcontext and other python objects that's reused by application. Optimized the code using smart pointers, profilers and C++ Standard template library.  • Build JSON objects using the framework which will be used by JavaScript to control the flow of the page. Resolved performance related issues using efficient coding.  • Converted Photoshop smart objects into animations using Actionscript 3.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Implemented AWS high-availability using AWS Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), which performed balance across instances.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers. Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON. Developed dynamic webpages through HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework. Worked on a resulting report of the application and Tableau reports. Deployed production site using Apache Servers with mod Python and AWS.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, HTML5, CSS, XML,, C++, Numpy, pandas, KML, SQL, AWS, JavaScript, Git Hub, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Selenium integration testing, Ant, PyUnit, Maven, Git, ActionScript 3.0, Angular.js, Flex, Jenkins, Linux, RESTful, MS SQL Server, Ubuntu server, Windows 12 Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Map Box, SQL, Mongo DB, GitHub, Bit Bucket, Linux, and Windows.  PYTHON DEVELOPER  BANK OF AMERICA - Irving, TX Responsibilities:    Jan2016 - Dec2017    • Used Django frameworks and Python to build dynamic webpages. Developed tools for monitoring and notification using Python. Enhanced the application by using HTML and Java script for design and development.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object-oriented class-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks. Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash and worked in tandem with the Flash developer to obtain the correct data through query string  • Involved in designing database Model, API's, Views using python to build an interactive web-based solution. Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Implemented Data tables to add, delete, update and display patient records and policy information using PyQt. Implemented a module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance using python.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django. Improved the Data Security and generated report efficiently by caching and reusing data. Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python-MySQL connector and retrieved information using MySQL dB.  • Recorded the online users' data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using Pytest. Developed the application using the Test-driven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. CSV, Robot parser, Iter tools, Pickle, Jinja2, Xml for development. Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Query and set up employee registration and login using Python PostgreSQL. We use a multiple row data storage strategy called MVCC to make effective PostgreSQL responsive in Querying and storing in database.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash. Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using Python-twitter library. Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes for Learning Management System and Used Python Flask framework to build modular & maintainable applications.  • Automated data movements using Python scripts. Involved in splitting, validating and processing of files. Created core Python API which will be using among multiple modules.  • Uploaded statistics to MySQL for analysis and logging. Developed complex SQL queries for testing the database functionality. Used UNIX server for application deployment and configuration.  Environment: Python, Django, Linux, HTML, CSS, Shell Scripting, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Python-Twitter Library, Flask, Web services, SVN, Pandas, FileZilla etc. PYTHON DEVELOPER ING, WINDSOR - New York, NY January 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Web application penetration testing process, web crawling process to detect and exploit SQL Injections Vulnerabilities.  • Wrote Test Automation Script for deployment of AWS and Company Web API, using python package, puppet configuration tool to update and check historical pumping data from AWS. Compare the existing data and historical data and create performance chart for client.  • Wrote automate Python Script for testing program to store machine detection alarm when Pump experience overloading to Amazon cloud.  • Wrote program to fetch data and from amazon cloud and send the client according their requirement.  • Passed query and wrote script to automate machine alarm data with timestamp to engineer.  • Used Python and Pandas library, built data analysis graph for documentation and record.  • Worked with Blender script, built add-on and customization of blender interface.  • Used SPSS tool for statistical programming and computational techniques for large data sets and quantitative analysis.  • Used SPSS tool for Visualization techniques for summarizing complex data analysis using Python.  • Independently developed and implemented analysis workflow and quality practices, including workflow optimization, process standardization, configuration management of analysis files and software, and verification and validation (V&V) of models.  • Using Numerical equation, built application and do 2D- finite Element analysis using python language  • Used Django database API's to access database objects.  • Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and Matplotlib.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Extracted the actual data of HTML format and predicted raw data; interpreted and stored predicted one in well-organized JSON files.  • Wrote programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Maintained data with different levels of access privileges.  Environment: Python2.7, Amazon Cloud, Blender, C#, Macros OracleDB, Debian, Apache Server, pandas Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, GIT, CSS, JavaScript. Education Bachelor's RGPV UNIVERSITY 2014 Skills Amazon elastic block storage (Less than 1 year), Apache cassandra (1 year), Asteradata (1 year), Aws (2 years), Bootstrap (1 year), C (1 year), Cassandra (1 year), Ebs (Less than 1 year), Hadoop (Less than 1 year), Html5 (1 year), Java (1 year), Linux (2 years), Mysql (2 years), Oracle (Less than 1 year), Php (1 year), Xml (1 year), Xsl (Less than 1 year), Jquery, CSS, Git, Javascript Additional Information SKILLS  • XML, X query & XSL, PHP, Mongo DB, Cassandra, Hadoop Environment, GitHub, Bootstrap, Test Driven Development, HTML5, Angular.js 1.5,2.0, 4.0, React.js, Framework, C++, JAVA script, CSS3, MySQL, Linux, ORACLE  TOOLS  • AWS (Cloud Watch, EBS system), Hadoop Environment, PHP, C++, JAVA Script, ORACLE, Bootstrap, Angular.js, React.js