Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Frugal Innovation Hub Santa Clara, CA • 5+ years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) ) including Java/J2EE, Python, Django, Flask and Restful API's.    • Highly experienced in using Design Patterns such as Singleton and MVC frameworks like Django and Angular JS.  • Designed and developed front end using HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, Ajax, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience working in Agile development and Test Driven Developments.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Well experienced in J2SE which includes multithreading, concurrency, memory management, asynchronous programming, Exception handling, collections, data structures and design patterns  • Used Python for data analytics, data wrangling and extracting data using Pandas, Pyexcel, NumPy and SciPy.  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test (PyUnit) library.  • Good experience in handling Errors/Exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications  • Experience in developing web page effectively using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSP, JQuery, AJAX,Angular JS, React.JS, Backbone.JS, D3.JS, Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap  • Used Git and Github for Version Control.  • Remarkable knowledge of design, Normalization and Database Management Concepts.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Extensive experience in SQL, PL/SQL programming, stored procedures, triggers and Query optimization, also written queries for insert, update and modification operations. Performed database normalization and optimization using database tools.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap & XML/JSON REST web services.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, Sublime, Pystudio, Pyscripter and NetBeans.  • Extensive analytical, logical and programming skills and ability to grasp new technologies and to correctly apply new tools to build applications.  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments, fast learner and organized self-starter.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  • Experience in developing web-based applications in Telecommunication, e-Commerce, Retail, Banking, HealthCare and Insurance using IBM Web Sphere/WebLogic/JBOSS/Tomcatservers  • Experienced in developing Object Relation Mappings using Hibernate, JDBC, Spring JDBC and Spring Data with RDMS (Oracle, DB2, MySQL) and NoSQL (MongoDB, Cassandra) databases  • Good understanding of the processes in Software Development Life Cycle.  • Good debugging, root cause analysis and problem solving skills. Work Experience Python Developer Frugal Innovation Hub - Santa Clara, CA May 2017 to Present Frugal Innovation Hub is a part of the Santa Clara University, which takes on different kinds of projects with various profit and non-profit organizations. They educate engineers empowered with the ability and drive to address the greatest challenges of the 21st century. Guided by the Jesuit, Catholic values, they are committed to the highest in academic and ethical achievement. Their mission is to fuel engineering students' intellectual curiosity in support of building a more just, humane, and sustainable world. In the classroom and beyond, they offer courses, interdisciplinary projects, competitions, and a myriad of opportunities for students to tackle real problems at home and around the world. They put into action their technical expertise as well as business and social skills, empathy, and the ethical discernment that can lead to a sustainable future for all.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django frameworks.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users.  • Designed web pages using HTML.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API Framework using Django.  • Rewritten existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Created database tables using MySQL to store user data including login credentials and contact information.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Interlinked different web pages and database tables using Python and Flask micro framework.  • Used PyCharm for programming using Python.  • Used Git/GitHub for tracking changes in various files and coordinating work on those files among multiple people in the project team.    Environment: Python, Flask, HTML, Django, MS SQL Server, MySQL, PyCharm, Kafka Git, GitHub Python Developer BNSF Railway - Fort Worth, TX July 2016 to April 2017 The BNSF Railway Company is one of the largest freight railroad networks in North America, second to the Union Pacific Railroad (UP) (its primary competitor for Western U.S. freight), and is one of seven North American Class I railroads. It has 44,000 employees, 32,500 miles (52,300 km) of track in 28 states, and over 8,000 locomotives. It has three transcontinental routes that provide rail links between the western and eastern United States.  Responsibilities:    • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework  • Used Python and Django for XML, JSON processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Created UI using JavaScript, Perl and HTML5. Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  • Worked on Libraries like Pandas for data manipulation and analysis.  • Programmatically controlled the COMSOL Multiphysics® model in the MATLAB® graphical user interface to perform case studies and customize plots and data processing.  • Developed most of the application part in Linux environment and very much familiar with all its commands.  • Used TKinter to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.    Environment: Linux, Python, Django, Ansible, HTML, XML, JavaScript, AngularJs, JQuery, MS SQL Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Hadoop Beautiful soup, Perl, Pandas, Matlab, Eclipse, Kafka Git, GitHub, JIRA Python Developer Equifax - Atlanta, GA August 2015 to May 2016 Equifax Inc. is a consumer credit reporting agency. Equifax collects and aggregates information on over 800 million individual consumers and more than 88 million businesses worldwide. Founded in 1899 and based in Atlanta, Georgia, it is the oldest of the three largest American credit agencies along with Experian and TransUnion (known as the "Big Three"). Equifax has US$ 3.1 billion in annual revenue and 9,000+ employees in 14 countries. It is listed on the NYSE as EFX.  Responsibilities:    • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Pandas, Twisted and matPlotLib.  • Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Skilled in collections and used for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Pandas library was used for flexible reshaping and pivoting of data sets.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Installed, configured, and managed the AWS server.  • AWS data pipeline for Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading from the homogeneous or heterogeneous data sources.  • Accessed database objects using Django Database APIs.  • Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools.  • Strong experience working with real time streaming application and batch style large scale distributed computing applications using tools like Spark Streaming.  • Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Manage the configurations of multiple servers using Ansible.  • Deployed mircoservices2, including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible Playbooks.  • Provisioned load balancer, auto-scaling group and launch configuration for mircoservice using Ansible.  • Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  • Experience in writing playbooks for Ansible and deploying applications using Ansible.  • Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack Monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has integrated Ansible with Run deck and Jenkins.  • Provisioned and patched servers regularly using Ansible.  • Implemented Ansible to manage all existing servers and automate the build/configuration of new servers.  • Developed an Ansible role for Zabbix-agent which will be integrated into the to the CICD pipeline.  • Used Ansible to document all infrastructures into version control.  • Used Ansible to document application dependencies into version control.  • Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy there code using GitHubJenkins, Nexus and Ansible  • Migrated out core repository from SUBVERSION to GIT.  • Managed GitHub Projects and migrated from SVN to GitHub with history.  • Used Cloud Trail, TESSA, Cloud Passage, Check Marx, Qualys Scan tools for AWS security and scanning.  • Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch.  • Performed web testing automation using selenium API.  • Performed parameterization of the automated test scripts in Selenium to check how the application performs against multiple sets of data Contributed in developing Automation Framework that uses Java, Selenium WebDriver and Testing.  • Wrote automation test cases and fixing automation script bugs.  • Experience with migration to Amazon web Services AWS.    Environment: Python, Django, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, GIT.va, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, AWS, Pandas, Cassandra, Hadoop, Eclipse, Perl, Matlab, Shell Scripting Java Developer Future Focus Infotech Pvt Ltd - New Delhi, Delhi June 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Prototyped simple RESTful web services of the online portal and was approved to develop the full-fledged application  • Involved in Agile/SCRUM software methodology to manage the project  • Developed complete user interface look-and-feel using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS  • Implemented Spring framework to manage dependency injection  • Designed and Developed RESTful web services using Java for transfer of messages between UI and backend systems  • Worked on developing Web Services using - SOAP, WSDL and developing DTDs, XSD schemas for XML (parsing, processing, and design).  • Implemented the REST architecture using Apache CXF framework using JSON as a message format  • Developed Event logging and error reporting/alerts for the whole application  • Implemented Object-Relation mapping in persistence layer using Hibernate  • Worked on configuring Hibernate configuration files and mapping files to interact with DB  • Unit tested and integration tested the application using Junit  • Worked with Mocking while running the Junit test cases for batch processing  • Implemented logging mechanism to capture exceptions and errors using Log4j tool  • Used Tortoise SVN as a version-control client for Subversion    Environment:Java/J2EE, RESTful Web services, Apache CXF, Hibernate, Struts, Oracle, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Tomcat, Tortoise SVN Java / SQL Developer RSS INFOTECH PVT LTD - Delhi, Delhi January 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Responsible for entire data migration from Sybase ASE server to Oracle.  • Migration of API code written for Sybase to Oracle.  • Overlook the migration activity of PL/SQL programs.  • Migration of the PL/SQL code from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's.  • Automation of testing using Python.    Environment: Python, Java, JDBC, XML, PL/SQL, SQL, web services. Education M.S. in Electrical Engineering Santa Clara University Skills HTML (3 years), Java (2 years), JavaScript (3 years), Python (3 years), SQL (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python2x, 3x/2.7, Java  Python Framework Django, Flask  Databases MySQL, SQL Server  Web Technologies JavaScript, Perl, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, Ajax, JQuery, HTML, Web services  Networking Socket Programming, TCP/IP  IDE's/Development Tools PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, Sublime Text.  SDLC Methodologies Agile  Web Servers Apache, IIS  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows, MAC OSX  Testing Tools Selenium and Jira.