Python Developer Intern <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Electrical & Computer Engineer Houston, TX • Degreed Electrical and Computer Engineer with Machine Learning, Digital VLSI, Computer Architecture, Control Systems, Embedded Networks and Power Electronics.  • Certified intermediate level Python developer.  • Focused Control and Design professional with strong theoretical and experimental methodology experience.  • 2 years of experience with logical programming skills using Verilog and VHDL.  • Experience with Matlab in multiple projects.  • Experience in Control theory and knowledge of analysis software LabView.  • Worked on Cadence tools for power and timing analysis for different models.  • Knowledge of digital design, feedback loops, system reliability, computer networks and statistics.  • Highly motivated team member with good analytical skills and excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Python Developer Intern INfodat International - Houston, TX May 2019 to July 2019 Working on Machine Learning models and developing algorithms using Python and SQL. Graduate Research Assistant Analog and Mixed Signals Laboratory, Oklahoma State University - Stillwater, OK January 2018 to May 2019 Designing a custom interface for EEPROM and CPU communication. Academic Peer Tutor LASSO tutoring Center - Stillwater, OK August 2017 to January 2018 • Worked as an academic tutor for subjects of Mathematics, Physics, Engineering Sciences, Electrical Engineering,  Probability Theory.  • Experience with formulating exceptional study plans and strategies. Control Engineer Intern Electronics Corporation of India Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2016 to July 2016 • Worked on project of Water level detection sensor and alarm used on railway bridges during floods on a small- scale model.  • Programming skills using raspberry pi.  • Design modifications and optimizations using control theory and feedback loops.  Tools Used: Raspberry Pi, GSM sim-kit, IR Sensor. Education MASTER OF SCIENCE in ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING Oklahoma State University - Stillwater, OK December 2017 to May 2019 BACHELOR OF TECHNOLOGY in ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to May 2017 Skills Python (4 years), C (4 years), Verilog (6 years), VHDL (6 years), Matlab (4 years), Microsoft Office (6 years), SQL (2 years), MYSQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/vishal-reddy-banala-0848a2149 Certifications/Licenses Python 3 - Udemy March 2019 to Present Additional Information SKILL SET  ? Programming Languages: Python, SQL, Matlab, C.  ? Firmware: VHDL, Verilog, System Verilog.  ? Analysis Software: Multisim, LabView, PSpice.  ? Operating Systems: Linux, Mac, Windows.  ? Microsoft Technologies: Office 365, Visual Studio, Visio.