Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Lead Vision ? Looking for a challenging role in Python, Django and IOT (Internet of things) Technology, where I can employ my skills for the mutual pride and development of both organization and my career.  ? A result oriented professional with 2.2 years of experience in Python, Django and IOT (Internet of things).  ? Good team player with innovative thinking and working dedicatedly on all kind of tasks.  ? Excellent analytical and logical programming skills with a good understanding at the conceptual level.  ? With Collaborative Spirit, Expert thinking and good leadership qualities maintained excellent delivery and quality  ? Open to learning and using new systems involved in Python Programming  ? Highly-qualified in Python programming for many different industries  ? Used Python programming and language to develop a working and efficient network within the company  ? Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django Redis and other applications  ? Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency  ? Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management  ? Increased speed and memory efficiency by implementing code migration to convert python code to C/C++ using Cython  ? As a self - motivated individual, able to set effective priorities and implement decisions to meet operational deadlines.  ? Worked extensively on financial applications which are business critical and have strict SLA's  ? Adapt easily to new concepts and responsibilities. Work Experience Python Developer Lead Vision June 2017 to Present Project: Lead Vision IOT Services.  Languages Used: Python, Django, HTML, Java Script and CSS  Role: Python Developer.    Description:  Novartis is pharmaceutical company and the head office located in US, the project is to provide IOT services to Lead vision. Here we used python, Django, HTML and CSS to develop and design the project related features.  Responsibilities:  In this Project I am assigned as Infrastructure support and implementation.  My Job responsibilities are as follows,  ? Implemented discretization and binning, data wrangling: cleaning, transforming, merging and reshaping data frames  ? Determined optimal business logic implementations, applying best design patterns  ? Managed a small team of programmers using a modified version of the agile development  ? Designed and developed corporate website using the Django framework  ? Created a work flow using technologies such as GIT/SSH to develop multi -programmer  ? Managed windows servers which included Active Directory maintenance and support  ? Managed companies virtual servers at Amazon EC2, S3  ? Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.  ? Designed a web based system to improve business intelligence, logistics, manage inventory and sales, and forecast demand. The system will be used by over one hundred employees in Brazil.  ? Programmed, tested, and implemented a user login, product registration, order placing & tracking, and statistics reporting system in eight months.  ? The system communicates critical information and changed how purchasing decisions are made.  ? Creates new and modifies existing software, integrates software applications and modules based on specifications created in partnership with others  ? Designs and runs unit and integration tests to ensure that software meets requirements  ? Contributes and leads in the design process for less complex components  ? Provides technical support to operations and/or to other development teams  ? Creates, reviews, and maintains technical documentation related to assigned software  ? Reviews work of both peers and more junior developers  ? Helps identify and implement short - and long-term solution options including risk assessments  ? Participates in devising and implementing solutions for problem remediation  ? Participates in project planning sessions with team members  ? Provides work breakdown and estimates for small software development tasks  ? Provides timely status updates for areas of individual responsibilities in projects  ? Develops software using disciplined software development processes, adhering to team/company standards and software best practice guidelines, and corporate policies  ? Works independently with limited technical and management guidance, taking ownership of problems within own area of knowledge  ? Makes decisions within ambiguous guidelines with limited review by appropriate people  ? Is accountable for the quality of work  ? Delivers results within agreed procedures and timeframes  ? Development experience with object-oriented languages  ? Demonstrated ability to work in a team environment  ? Good unit testing practices  ? Good communication and documentation skills  ? Willingness to interact and work with different teams across organizations in different time zones  ? Willingness to work overtime and weekends if required  ? Strong in object-oriented concepts and Python language  ? Proficient with concepts of virtual environments and familiarity with Fabric tool  ? Knowledgeable about MVC pattern  ? Knowledgeable about PostgresSQL concepts Python Developer CIT June 2016 to May 2017 Project: CIT BAU Services.  Languages Used: Python, Django, HTML, Java Script and CSS  Role: Python Developer.  Description:  CIT Bank is organized into two principal business units, Corporate Services and Personal Financial Services. These units provide trust/custody, securities processing, fund accounting, transfer agency, administrative and investment services. CIT is a supporting business unit, responsible for investment management services supporting both the corporate and personal clients who use CIT trust and custody services  Responsibilities:  In this Project I am assigned as Infrastructure support and implementation. My Job responsibilities are as follows,  • Plan and schedule project timelines and milestones using MS Project.  • Utilize expert - level knowledge of analytics and Python programming to create scripts capable of data access, manipulation, modelling, prediction, visualization, and reporting.  • Integrate Python with data source and delivery systems.  • Employ coding standards and advance guidelines for efficient and effective Python programming.  • Extensive experience developing data processing and data movement software  • Experience using popular scripting languages ( Python, Perl) for data processing & job control  • Willingness to learn new scripting languages  • Solid understanding of the (SDLC) software development lifecycle  • Experience working with version control systems i.e. Subversion (svn), git  • Comfortable working with a Linux/UNIX operating systems  • Develop confidential maps, convert 4010 maps to 5010 maps using Gentran.  • Work with Claim Department Director or Manager to resolve confidential claim issues.  • Work with Encounter Department Manager to resolve confidential encounter issues.  • Work with Enrolment Department Manager to resolve confidential membership issues.  • Work on multiple projects at the same time to meet the deadline under pressure.  • Understand ICD-9 and ICD-10.  • Understand confidential regulations, transactions, and code sets.  • Good at confidential compliance checking and validation.  • Experience with Confidential tools, Confidential Implementation Guides, and analytical tools.  • Experience with Healthcare Confidential X12 transaction sets.  • Experience with Confidential SpecBuilder, Analyzer, Editor, and Transaction Manager, XEngine and Ramp Manager.  • Perform Gap Analysis including the creation of Companion Guides.  • Experience with Oracle 10g, coordinate with Oracle DBA and Application Development Manager for Confidential Data Deployment and Confidential Data In/Out process.  • Manage a team of confidential professionals to develop and maintain automated, scalable, confidential solutions that comply with federal and state regulations including Confidential.  • Work within the confidential team which includes confidential developers and Programmers.  • Attend required health plan meetings, including Confidential Plan Partner Steering Committee meeting held in LA Care (plan partners include LA Care, Kaiser Permanente, UHP Healthcare, Community Health Plan, Blue Cross, Care1st), and on-going Tuesday Plan Partner Confidential Test Status and Plan Conference Calls on site.  • Confidential Project main contact person with LA Care.  • Confidential Translator: EC Map 2.7.1, EC Gateway Unix version 2.7, Gentran Server 5.2  • Confidential mapping Expertise: 270, 271, 276, 277, 834, 835, 837P/I.  • With deep technology/architecture/solution development in • Working knowledge on IoT Strategy, standards, protocols  • Worked or consultancy on any IoT Platform  • Participate in the definition of development of IoT roadmaps and supports the technical decisions  • Steer development and industrialization of IoT Solutions  • Embedded or real-time operating systems, and/or driver/kernel development  • High level of comfort communicating effectively across internal and external organizations  • Help develop an overall IoT and Mobile ecosystem engagement strategy  • Responsible for the acquisition and management of IoT services at the launch of new solutions  • Assist in the evaluation of new solutions for integration into the IoT Roadmap/Strategy. Additional Information Key Technical Skills    ? Operating System: Windows Server 2012/2008, Windows 7, Windows 10.  ? Languages: Python, Django, HTML, Java Script and CSS.  ? Software: IOT (Internet of Things), MS Office.  ? Virtualization: AWS.