Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Research Department • I aspire to work in the areas of Software Product Development /Data Science /Machine Learning and be a part of teams developing innovative solutions to tackle real world problems. Work Experience Software Developer Research Department November 2017 to Present implementing Investment Strategies giving best returns. Finding new insights using regression, data Analysis and Back testing on Historical data of Equity Markets and Mutual Funds.  Project Details  Duration: 6th November 2017 - Till Present  Role: Deputy Manager Research Software Developer ( Python)  OS Platform: Ubuntu, Linux, Windows  Team Size: 10    ? Conversation Agent(ChatBot) Developer  Worked as a ChatBot Developer using Python programming language exploring the field  Of Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing. Hands-on experience of different approaches for Text Processing, Semantic similarity and Sentiment analysis on the text.  Well versed with the workings of AIML(Artificial Intelligence Markup Language).  Project Details System Analyst ( Python) Python March 2017 to November 2017 OS Platform: Windows, Linux  Team Size: 10 Oracle JD Edwards Configurable Network Computing Consultant and Configuration Manager Michelin JDE-ERP BB September 2014 to March 2017 to support 9 countries around the globe with 4 standalone sites. Following standard process through Maximo change management and incident management as defined by client. On need basis performing Code deployments for Oracle Applications using ACMP migration tool.  Project Details  Duration: 26th September 2014 - 24th March 2017  Role: JDE E9.0 CNC, Configuration Manager.  OS Platform: Windows, AIX.  Team Size: 150    ? Banking Solutions Prototype  Leading a team of eight members to Create an Information Management System for a Bank, we created tables and inter calling methods with necessary constraints and Relationships to hold all possible transactions which can happen in a bank. (Example Depositing Cash, Withdrawing Cash, Opening Account, Closing Account, Interest Calculation for FD, RD, etc. Transactions like Deposit/Withdrawal can happen through instruments like Cheque, Demand Draft, Pay Order, ATM, etc)    • Final Year Academic Project  ? Touch Based Interface For Visually Impaired People  The project provides an easy touch based interface for interaction between visually impaired and a computing device. Device can take input by drawing alphabets on the touchpad with the help of fingers. Using serial communication the input given to the touchpad is passed on to the computer. This is interpreted by using a machine learning algorithm on the software side.    • Third Year Academic Project  ? Load Monitoring System  The System Provides easy means to monitor the power consumption on the consumer side.  It can be used to regulate electricity usage during loadsheding.    Achievements    • Awarded Certificate Of Appreciation for Excellent and Outstanding Support by Capgemini Pvt. Ltd(November-2016).  • Recognized for Consistently performing Oracle JD Edwards CNC Activities and Excellent Turnaround by Capgemini Pvt. Ltd(December-2015).  • Awarded First Prize At 'SPEAKIT'(Technical Paper Presentation Competition).  • Placed Second amongst five hundred students in SSC examination at 'Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Vividhlakshi Vidhyalaya'. Education High School Certificate Sardar Patel Institute of Technology - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN June 2014 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering University of Mumbai - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN Additional Information Computer Skills    • Programming Languages    ? Algorithms & Data Structures, Python, AIML, JAVA, SQL/PL-SQL(Oracle certified), Basics of C, Basics of C++, Assembly Languages for Microprocessors.    • Softwares    ? Microsoft Excel, Basics Of Power Point, SQL Developer, Oracle JD Edwards, MATLAB