Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - TDS TELECOM Madison, WI • Experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Good experience of software development in Python language and devOps (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity) and IDEs -sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, PyTesting, Eclipse, emacs.  • Good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN and CVS. Good experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Extensively worked on Hudson/Jenkins, Build Forge for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Experience with configuration management tools like Chef, Puppet, and Ansible.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experience in maintaining all the tools like Bamboo, Bit Bucket, Confluence, JIRA, and GIT.  • Good devOps experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Experience in administering and supporting the CM tools including Subversion and CVS on UNIX environments.  • Good idea using debugging tools like Bugzilla, and JIRA.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer TDS TELECOM - Madison, WI December 2017 to Present Description: TDS Telecom is an American telecommunications company with headquarters in Madison, Wisconsin. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Telephone and Data Systems Inc, and is the seventh-largest local exchange carrier in the U.S.TDS Telecom offers telephone, broadband Internet and television services to customers in more than a hundred rural and suburban communities, though it also serves some urban metropolitan communities  Responsibilities:    • Complete development and expertise in Rest framework in Django.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Dealing with client regarding the requirements of the projects and taking care of production issues and bugs.  • Experience in various modules like rest framework, mock, freezgun, Numpy etc.;  • Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  • Developed unit and functional tests in Python and Ruby.  • Using ANT, Puppet/ Chef Scripts with Ivy to build the application and deploy.  • PowerShell scripting management for mass deployments/changes  • Application deployment via powershell/One Click  • PowerShell scripting and automation  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  • Experienced in hand-coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Developed the entire project using PostgreSQL. Migrating from other databases to PostgreSQL.  • Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Front-end web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using SQL.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence.  • Created Branches, Labels and performed Merges in Stash and GIT.  • Administering Code Repositories in SVN and Bit bucket.  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.    Environment: Python 2.7/3.5, PyQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2.0, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, Celery, Flash, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, SQLAlchemy, AWS etc. Python Developer Ericsson - Piscataway, NJ January 2016 to November 2017 Description: Ericsson is one of the leading providers of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) to service providers, with about 40% of the world's mobile traffic carried through our networks. To lead transformation through mobility. We envision a Networked Society where every person and every industry are empowered to reach their full potential.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  • Experienced in hand-coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Experience with JavaScript Frameworks Ext JS, AngularJS, jQuery  • Experienced in web applications development using Flask and Django in Python.  • Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Parsed the unstructured data into semi-structured format by writing complex algorithms in pyspark  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Experience in report writing using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and in creating various types of reports like table, matrix, and chart report, web reporting by customizing URL Access.  • Provide high-level technical support and administration for GIS-based routing software.  • Ensure data integrity, performing extensive quality control checks of GIS data and non-spatial databases  • Front-end web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using Golang and SQL.  • Designing and tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of FlashVars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Supported development team with deployment workflow and continuous integration using Gitlab, GitLab CI, Rundeck, Docker and SaltStack provisioning.  • Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence.  • Reviewed and implemented instrument pricing and modelling methodologies in collaboration with technical engineers. Analyzed and documented how instrument prices move as underlying market data sources change.  • Actively participated in requirement gathering sessions and capability planning for multi data center Cassandra cluster.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Full Stack Developer for custom Drupal 7 build. Responsibilities included site maintenance, new feature development and user support.    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy, Android OS Android 1.5 to Android 6.0 etc. Education computer science SRM University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2015 Skills Git (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), PYTHON (3 years), SQL (2 years), JIRA (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C, C++, Python, JavaScript, XML, JAVA, SQL  SCM Tools Subversion, Jenkins/Hudson, Jira, TFS, Confluence, Clear Case, GIT, GitHub.  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Make  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows, DOS, VMware  Database Postgre SQL, MS Access, SQL Server, MYSQL and Sybase, Oracle, DB2  Application Servers Web logic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, Apache tomcat5.5, IIS  Issue Tracking Tools ATLASSIAN JIRA, BUGZILLA, Mantis  Delivery Tools Saltstack, Chef & Puppet