Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Quark.ai Davis, CA Work Experience Python Developer Quark.ai - Davis, CA November 2018 to Present Building RESTful Python API's and creating Scrapy Middlewares and Spiders to scrape  technical sites filled with manuals, blog posts, etc.  ? Ingesting data from 3rd party providers via web scraping and transferring them through SFTP  via bash scripts.  ? Creating SQL scripts to cleanse, deduplicate, and transform the scraped data into a production PostgreSQL database. Python Developer/ NodeJS Pufferfish Partners - Davis, CA April 2016 to February 2017 Built a Python flask RESTful service for tracking wine products to their SKU  numbers. The front-end was built with flask-admin, wrote nose tests, andhad a  95%+ coverage(according to coverage.py)  ? Worked with another contractor to improve their Scrapy spiders, by replacing  them from Selenium based to Scrapy HTTP requests. Scraping speed was increased by over 400% and code lines were reduced by over 50%. Created a total of 25  Scrapy spiders to scrape competitors sites for their wine prices.  ? Wrote Ansible playbooks to deploy their backend flask and Scrapy spiders system  on DigitalOcean. Developer Github Account - Woodland, CA February 2015 to February 2016 Took a year off to work on some of my personal Github projects.  ? Created a mass account uploader for various adult hosting sites.  ? Worked on a mass instagram account liker/follower/creator that used their mobile  API. Did some reverse engineer to get their signing key. Software Engineer Xteros Inc - Rockville, MD June 2014 to February 2015 Developed and automated scraping scripts that scraped data from several health  sites that contained drugs information, insurance plans, and important  information about the Obamacare and pushed it to a PostgreSQL database.  ? Was in charged of creating an ETL process that analyzed, cleaned up, and loaded  the scraped data from a PostgreSQL database and sent it to an ElasticSearch  instance  ? Helped for a short time on the front-end creating Angular 1 controllers to help  out the Senior Developer with some backlogged work. First time experience  working with Javascript. Freelance Python Developer Frelance - Davis, CA June 2013 to May 2014 Scraped several health websites for drugs information using Python, Selenium,  and PhantomJS.  ? Designed the first set of PostgreSQL tables that were later used for the first  prototype backend of Xteros. Education Computer Science Sacramento Community College September 2010 to June 2013 Skills Python, Flask, Django, Javascript Links http://Coverage.py