Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Pyhton Developer Phoenix, AZ • Over 5+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on various domains.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Strong experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs – sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Expert in Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python and Django.  • Handy experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django and Flask frameworks.   • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, MVC3, Bootstrap, HTML and Angular.js.  • Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.   • Experience in Amazon AWS Cloud platform and its features.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with Python programming language. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH January 2018 to Present ·        Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.   ·        Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ·        Generated  Python Django Forms to Record data of users.   ·        Utilize PyUnit, the  Python unit test framework, for all  Python applications.   ·        Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ·        Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ·        Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in  Python. Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ·        Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.   ·        Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ·        Generated  Python Django Forms to Record data of users.   ·        Utilize PyUnit, the  Python unit test framework, for all  Python applications.   ·        Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ·        Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ·        Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in  Python. Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users. Python Developer Grand Bank of Texas, - Austin, TX January 2016 to December 2017 ·        Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ·        Performed testing using Django’s Test Module.  ·        Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  ·        Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.   ·        Worked on Python Open stack API's.  ·        Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.   ·        Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.   ·        Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  ·        Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web based solution.   ·        Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ·        Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ·        Worked with JSON based REST Web services. Education Master's