Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - ConvaTec Inc Califonia • Over 4+ years of IT experience in developing and deploying projects with Python, Java and frameworks such as Django/Flask using one or more of MySQL, HTML, JavaScript, MVC-AJAX, Linux (Unix).  • Extensive knowledge in Python, Django, PHP, MYSQL, UNIX and Linux.  • Good Knowledge Objected Oriented Concepts, Standard Template Library, Smart Pointers, Data Structures and Design patterns.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, Python STL, Django, UI and web development  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Designed the frontend of the application using python 2.7, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records  • Developed/supported application on LAMP stack (using PHP, MYSQL and Apache).  • Experience in Agile development techniques.  • Keen on learning and adaptable to any platform.  • Experience in using Photoshop, Illustrator, Adobe Flash, SVN Eclipse, MS Visio, SharePoint and Microsoft Front Page.  • Proficient in Software Design and Development with a solid background in Developing and Experience developing applications in Linux Environment.  • Strong perseverance and diligence towards attaining challenging goals and possess good communication skills and quick learning ability.  • Used python library Beautiful Soup for web Scraping.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS for better appearance.    I have created a custom security algorithm module for securing the transactions by generating code through E-Mail or Phone. I have created the modules for securing ATM processing, ecommerce, Mobile transaction and card production and location based services etc.  Roles and Responsibilities in the project:  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation n  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django Frameworks.  • Analyzed various data sources such as websites and developed Python code to extract structured and unstructured data.  • Design and Develop addition and modifications to Oracle web commerce components such as commerce pipeline components, DAF Pipeline servlets, repository templates, form handlers, droplets.  • Write Automation/test python scripts to test.  • Used Python packages such as sk-learn, ntlk, statsmodels, NumPy, Pandas, and scipy boosting, first and second order optimization algorithm, predictive modeling.    • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Worked in a collaborative environment with other developers.  • Implemented the OOP features of Python to full extent to build the web applications  • Built Django web applications for its medical and health clients that include few to several Views as part of Rapid Application Development (RAD).  • Worked on Python Scientific packages like NumPy and Pandas to handle data sets effectively  • To conclude, In and out worked as a full stack developer based on the needs of the team  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Wrote migration scripts to move data from the managed environment to private server instance  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery and Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.    Environment: Python, MySQL, CSS, Django, Linux, AJAX, XML, HTML, GIT, Angular.js, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer ConvaTec Inc February 2016 to Present Synopsis: Working as a Software developer in building various application in SharePoint technology based on custom build Django for the Manufacturing Operations of ConvaTec. Designed and developed systems using various technologies including Web based technologies, Client-Server programming, Object Oriented Analysis and Design, database development, Network programming, Performance monitoring and system tuning.    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:  ? Responsible for training ETL developers to utilize existing python framework  ? Developed RESTful web-services, for upstream and downstream web-applications using Django Rest framework.  ? Developed Job dashboard monitor UI using Django/Flask.  ? Developed Table Management System replacement, dine time written in Django Flask and deployed to production  Supported Table Management System web apps written in Django/Flask.  ? Involved in working with large teams to support existing ETL framework written in python.  ? Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  ? Worked on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  ? Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS for better appearance.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  ? Worked with Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Implement security features for the APIs and Used AJAX to reduce page reloads.  ? Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  ? Using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, various Python libraries such as Scrapy, Pandas, Beautiful Soup to collect and extract data.  ? Generated graphical reports using python package PYcharts.  ? Experienced in web applications development using Django, jQuery and Angular.js while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, GIT, CSS, Angular.js, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, AJAX, XML. Python Developer CMS Info System July 2013 to August 2015 Education Master's degree in Computer Science Activity Sacred Heart University Bachelors in Engineering Gujarat University - Gujarat, IN Skills CSS (3 years), database (3 years), Django (3 years), HTML (3 years), JavaScript (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Framework Django and Flask    Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Mac OS  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5/CSS, PHP, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap  Languages Python, Java, SQL  Python Libraries Panda, NumPy, Unit Test  Control Tools GitHub, SVN, VSS  Python Packages JSON, CSV, XML  Project Methodology Agile, Waterfall  Automation Tools Docker, Puppet, Chef  Database MySQL, Mongo DB, SQL Server, Oracle and PostgreSQL  CI/CD Jenkins, Hudson  Tools Eclipse, Dreamweaver, JIRA, Source Tree, MATLAB, R, selenium