Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Cisco Systems Cary, NC • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and support.  • Designed the Web application Using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible and flexible. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Cisco Systems - Durham, NC August 2017 to Present • Analyzed the system requirement specifications and in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Used Test driven approach, mock requests and responses for developing the application and Implement the unit tests  using Python on Unit test framework.  • Developed and maintained parsing modules, which read CSV, XML and JSON data from files and other REST services,  Processed the data. Python Developer Meridian Software Technology - IN January 2014 to July 2015 • Worked with product management to translate requirements into software design, implementation, and test.  • Created Forms, views, models using Django. Scripted the entire code in Python language. Also connected python  model classes to the MySQL databases like MongoDB.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling. Education Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering California State University - Los Angeles, CA May 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Gujarat Technological University May 2014 Skills DJANGO (2 years), JSON (1 year), PYTHON (2 years), MYSQL (1 year), MONGODB (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  Languages Python, Django, C, C++  Web HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, REST  Database MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Software Tools Visual studio, GitHub, PyCharm, Vagrant, Service Now, Xilinx, MATLAB  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall, Hybrid (Agile-Waterfall).  Other Skills Data Structures and Algorithms, Design Patterns (MVC, DJANGO MVT), OOP implementation, Git.