Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Western Digital Corporation San Francisco, CA • 3+ years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and Angular JS.  • Experience on Django, Python web frameworks, Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts using python, Django.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Created a python, Django web-based application using python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  • Aware of test-driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum methodologies.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  • Experience in Developing Web services with Python Programming Language.  • Experience in Establishing of applications in web services with protocols SOAP, REST, AWS.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Design and Coding.  • Experience in MVC/MVT frameworks like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • We used Python, Perl, jQuery, JavaScript and Json at the Front End.  • Experience in using various version systems like GitHub enterprise.  • Experience in programming frame works such as Turtle graphics and CMD.  • Expertise with automated testing tool such as Selenium Testing.  • Experience in preparing deliverables such as business process models, workflow diagrams, status reports, functional requirement Documents (FRD) and business requirement documents (BRD). Work Experience Python Developer Western Digital Corporation - Fremont, CA March 2016 to Present • Designed the Web application Using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible and flexible.  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications  • Building reusable code and libraries for future use.  • Developed scalable applications using Django framework.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models with the help of ORM like SQLAlchemy.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Maintained and improved the security level of data.  • Responsible for security standard implementation and data protection.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Generated various report using Python Report lab and sent to Business users to improve their decision making.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for testing the functionality of the application.  • Involved in front-end designing using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Operated all the user side validation using JavaScript and AJAX.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multithreading functionality.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project Python Developer BinaryBros - Rajkot, Gujarat March 2014 to July 2015 • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed user interface using CSS, PHP, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery, CI CD, Data Center.  • Used Ansible to configure and manage the infrastructure.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and developed Use-Cases, Classes and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Involved in develop the REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  • Good Experience in error and exceptional handling  • Built an Interface between Django and Salesforce and Django with RESTAPI.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page Education Master's Skills Flask, Python, Django, Javascript