Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Accela Inc San Ramon, CA ? 5+ years of experience IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE Projects.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM. Have good knowledge on Project management tools JIRA, Redmine and Bugzilla.  ? Experienced with Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana (ELK)  ? Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases, various version control systems like Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS.  ? Sound knowledge in Spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  ? Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  ? Experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB (2.6, 2.4) by installing and configuring various packages in python (Teradata, MySQL dB, Pyodbc, MySQL connector, Pymongo and SQLAlchemy)  ? Good knowledge in working with Web/application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Tornado, Cherrypy, Chaussette, Rocket  ? Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  ? Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora)  ? Experience in writing reusable and in test driven development using Unit Testing and Selenium.  ? Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, Node.JS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  ? Experienced in working on Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer Accela Inc - San Ramon, CA March 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Estimation and testing of the assigned tasks in Openstack.  ? Implemented Rally openstack benchmarking tool on the entire cloud environment.  ? Experience in reviewing Python code for running the troubleshooting test-cases and bug issues.  ? Configuring and managing Openstack components such as keystone, nova, neutron, glance, swift, Heat.  ? Written Nova, Glance, Neutron, Cinder, Keystone, Hashborad, Swift, python client API to integrate with existing Application.  ? Create a strategic architectural design of the platform with networking (vlans, firewalls, load balancers), hypervisors (kvm and VMware), workflow and orchestration (OpenStack APIs, Smart Cloud Orchestrator), security (keystone, LDAP), Inventory and monitoring, licensing, backup/restore.  ? Understanding python files in openstack environment and make necessary changes if needed.  ? Using Cinder to enable persistent storage for applications like databases deployed in Openstack  ? Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  ? Involved in Automated Openstack and AWS deployment using Cloud Formation, heat and Puppet.  ? Working on several python packages like NumPy, Beautiful Soup, SQLAlchemy, PyTables etc.  ? Involve in the developmentof the application using Python 3.3, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  ? Maintained and managed Puppet modules responsible for deploying Openstack and other cloud tools.  ? Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM)  ? Creating Cloud watch alerts for instances and using them in auto scaling launch configurations  ? Develope Cloud infrastructure like compute, storage, and platform Restful services to implement OpenStack API  ? Create a custom dashboard using JSF replacing an existing Horizon dashboard using the RESTful API provided by Openstack  ? Use python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  ? Design front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  ? Design and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  ? Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  ? Build Back-end support for Application from ground up using Python, Shell scripts & Perl.  ? Use the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Use Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Implemented Integration test cases and Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs. Python Developer Commtouch Software Ltd - Santa Clara, CA November 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Designed the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using AngularJS.  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL package.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls  ? Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  ? Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  ? Experienced in RSpec, Object-oriented programming, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery and, Amazon Web Services, Knockout.  ? Used python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis  ? Involved in design, implementation and modifying the Python code and MySQL database schema on-the back end.  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Had regular interactions with customers and gathered requirements in Big Data collation, summation, filtering and normalizing the data.  ? Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  ? Python/Django based web application, Postgre sql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  ? Worked on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring frame work using Django Education Bachelor degree in computer science in computer science DEVRY UNIVERSITY - Downers Grove, IL