Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Richmond, VA • Around 4 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical  programming using Python, Django, C++.  • Experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy,  scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database  connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS 5,  HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in using Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, SVN for Version Controlling.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and  Javascript, CSS 5, Bootstrap.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in  a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Hands on working with Python 2.7.10, SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Axosoft,  Amazon EC2/S3.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL  and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP,  Angular JS, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Expertize in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL,  multithreading, data structures, and design patterns.  • Well versed in writing unit test cases and selenium test cases.  • Understanding of Python best Practices (PEP-8)  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views,  triggers.  • Extensively used UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL  database.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery,  JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux,  RedHat Linux, Fedora)  • Worked on Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ.  • Experience with Jsp Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat. Work Experience Python Developer Capital One Bank - Richmond, VA September 2014 to Present Roles and Responsibilities  Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python  2.7, Java, Bash script, Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.JS.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Worked with Open stack Command-line client  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface. Python Developer Motorola Mobility - Sunnyvale, CA March 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery)  • Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading.  • Built application logic using Python2.7.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML  documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various  modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Persona  management, error/exception management etc.)  • Used python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E- commerce)  • Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling. Python Developer Cloud Sherpas - Atlanta, GA September 2011 to February 2013 Roles and Responsibilities  Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI development.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python, MSQL.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Worked extensively on Multithreading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Deployment and testing of the applications.  • Used HTML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Worked wResponsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have  them running ith the design team for project structure.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi threading functionality.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Programming Languages Python, Java, SQL, pl/sql  • Web Technologies JavaScript, Angular.JS, Node.JS JQuery, Ajax,  Swing, XML, and REST API's.  • Web Design HTML5, XML, CSS3, JSP, Servlets, Bootstrap.  • Databases Sqlite3, MongoDB, Cassandra, Oracle11g  Source version Control: GITHUB, SVN,  • Test Frameworks Django  • Operating Systems Windows, Windows Server, Linux & Unix.  • Version Control Tools Git, Github, SVN, VSS  • Bug Tracking Tools: Jira, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  • Python Libraries: Pandas, Numpy, UnitTest, JSON, CSV, XML, XLS