Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Mastronix Reston, VA • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Worked through all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes gathering and analyzing business requirements, functional/technical specifications, designing, developing, testing, deploying the applications and providing production support.  • Built Web application using Python, Angular, Flask, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML and template languages.  • 3 years of experience of data analysis in collection, cleaning, analyzing, and visualization of data for driving business solutions.  • Conducting Requirement Analysis, Feasibility Studies, Risk Analysis, and Adaptability Studies, Base lining Acceptance Criteria and Deliverables.  • Diversified experience in Data Analysis and Business Analysis.  • Experience working with MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server, and DB2 RDBMS systems.  • Experience in SQL, PL/SQL, functions, and packages.  • Good business understanding and effective at working across multiple teams within an organization.  • Experienced in tuning SQL statements and procedures for enhancing the load performance in various schemas across databases.  • Strong understanding of Normalization. Good understanding of Data warehousing concepts like star and snowflake schema and well as fact and dimension tables.  • Strong understanding of DWH concepts like data mining, data quality, data profiling, data cleaning, data scrubbing and data validation.  • Load and transform large sets of structured, semi structured and unstructured data  • Exceptionally well organized, having strong work ethics and willingness to work hard to achieve employer objectives. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Mastronix - Ashburn, VA October 2018 to Present Description: Mastronix is a SaaS based HR enterprise platform which provides enterprise needs for various small businesses. Mastronix helps small businesses to have a place where they could capture certain information about their employees in a simple and effective manner. Some of the core features offered by the platform include on-boarding employees and contractors, automation of employee immigration details, integrate seamlessly with external entities such as eVerify, DOLETA, retrieve documents on the fly for state and federal audits, provide recruitment and sales engine and the associated dashboard reporting.    Responsibilities:  • Created Technical Design Document based on the user requirements and business walk through.  • Worked on AGILE Methodology to meet timelines such as sprint planning, sprint participation & retro sessions  • Created all the domain classes and entities required by the business  • Implemented Singleton, Abstract Factory, Factory, Facade Design patterns  • Implemented data repositories using unit of work pattern and SqlAlchemy  • Implemented business logic package using data repositories and domain classes  • Implemented Restful API using Flask for the end clients consumption  • Implemented routing in Flask API  • Implemented token bases authentication using JWT  • Interacted with EVerify (www.uscis.gov ) WCFservices to verify an employee  • Created and configured several back end services such as push notification service, email service , employee entry and exit service using python and deployed in Jenkins  • Designed and developed views using HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Created several angular services and factories using Angular 2  • Created several angular html and css components and consumed angular services to fetch and post the data  • Created Angular services to consume FLASK API for calling API methods like GET, PUT, POST, and DELETE  • Used Git as version control system  • Used Git Bash as a client to perform operations such as stage, add, commit, merge, cherry pick on the repositories  • Strictly issued code reviews to the team members.  • Strictly followed CICD pipeline for continuous integration and deployment using Jenkins  • Involved in bi-weekly meeting sessions with DEVOPS Agile team  • Involved in creating the database and identifying the relationships for SAAS (Software as a Service) kind of data model  • Worked on stored procedures, views, triggers, explicit transactions, temp tables  • Developed parameterized SQL queries and stored procedures to query database tables in T-SQL.  • Created Views by applying complex queries on multiple tables to create the virtual tables and implemented Joins in Stored Procedures to get the desired data by joining multiple tables.  • Created UML (Use Case Diagrams, Sequence Diagram, Class Diagram), Process flow Diagram, Data Flow Diagram  • Created Unit tests using PyTest and responsible for writing test scripts and scenarios.  • Responsible for testing, fixing the bugs and troubleshooting the technical problems.  • Deployed the application as well as API into Tomcat web server.  • Modified applications according to the user's requirements    Environment:  Stack: Python 3.6, FLASK, Angular 2, JavaScript, Html, Css & Bootstrap  Version Control: Git  Build Server: Jenkins  Unit Testing: PyTest  Database: SQL Server Python Developer NatyaBharati.Org - Potomac, MD June 2016 to June 2017 Description: This project is mainly for auditorium booking for different shows and these shows are created dynamically in the admin panel and it consists of a heavy content management system to manage their website content accordingly. The mission of the project is to bring the vast richness and diversity of Indian theater to theater-lovers of the Washington D.C metropolitan area, including the second generation Indians and the community at large. To foster the local talent and provide a platform for theater enthusiasts in the community to develop their interest in all aspects of a theater production and management    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of the project.  • Worked on Angular components, services and factories.  • Written FLASK API to expose business functions.  • Implemented payment gateway for the ticket bookings  • Implemented custom algorithms in python for early bird discounts, member discounts and seasonal discounts.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL alchemy  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML5 and CSS3.  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Angular, FLASK and MySql  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, Beautiful soup for web crawling.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git and Azure Pipelines.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Used Py Unit framework for performing unit testing.  • Performed testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Implemented a custom web application for Puff testing in order to test the web requests as well as python code  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.    Environment:  Stack: Python 3.6, FLASK, Angular 2, JavaScript, Html, Css & Bootstrap  Version Control: Git  Devops: Azure Piplines  Database: MySQL Python Developer FCC Inc August 2014 to March 2016 Description: The Family Cloud Connect Scheduler EASILY allows your family to share special moments, care of a loved one, and connect through conferencing and messaging. There are three modules involved in this application:  • Share: Family Cloud Connect lets you share photos and home movies. Your family memories are special and will be accessed only by approved members in their secure family site.  • Care: Family Cloud Connect helps family members to manage the care of a Loved One who may be living alone and needs assistance.  • Connect: Family Cloud Connect improves family communication with messaging and conferencing    Responsibilities:  • Involved in writing System Requirements based on the User requirements and business walk through.  • Involved in developing the design document.  • Involved in End to End implementation of the project.  • Involved in creating the project architecture diagram.  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD.  • Used Rational Rose Enterprise to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration & Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams, and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Worked with Google Push Notifications Server and Apple Push Notification Servers.  • Created web application using JQuery, Html, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  • Implemented REST API for web client, mobile client , desktop clients.  • Implemented Video Conference system using OpenTok js library.  • Created multi-threaded background service for task management  • Implemented custom scheduler for scheduling the task with family members  • Created Data layer in MYSQL.  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  • Implemented DAO database access objects.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Creating the automated build and deployment process for application, re-engineering setup for better user experience, and leading up to building a continuous integration system for all our products.  • Deployment of application on Web logic 8.1 for testing and development team.  • Validate test content in IOS , Android and windows emulators  • Consumed Web Services using SOAP for getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Involved in preparing technical design document.  • Used Connect SOAP rule to fetch the Web Services.  • Used SOAP UI to test the external service.  • Used JIRA for project tacking.  • Involved in testing the application.  • Making changes in accordance with client requirement and client interaction.    Environment:  Stack: Python, Open Tok, Custom Scheduler Js JQuery, JavaScript, Html, Css & Bootstrap  Version Control: Git  Database: MySQL Education Bachelor's Degree JNTU Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana