Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Havi Global • 5+ years of experience in Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python scripting, Django, Angular JS, JavaScript and Node.js.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as SVN (Centralized Version Control System) and GIT (Distributed Version Control System).  • Hands-on experience in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Expertise in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS Cloud watch, AWS Config, Auto-scaling, IAM user management and AWS S3.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django and Flask web application frameworks.  • Good knowledge in GUI frameworks - Jython, Pyjamas.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies and active participation in full development life cycle (includes requirements, design, architecture, development, Implementation, and testing).  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQL Lite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Experience in Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS, created Multiple & Nested Views, Routing, Controllers, Services and Custom Directives  • Excellent working knowledge of using tools including Log4j, Maven, Ant and JUnit.  • Experience in working with application servers like Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, and WebLogic.  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop and Kafka.  • Experience working with Puppet, Chef, and Ansible for automation, testing and deployment.  • Hands-on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins and Maven.  • Good knowledge of using IDE Tools like IDLE, Eclipse, NetBeans, PyCharm, and Sublime Text.  • Experienced in using Python libraries like BeautifulSoup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Python-twitter, urllib2, and MySQL for database connectivity.  • Experience in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Experience with Unit Testing/ Test Driven Development (TDD), Load Testing and Integration Testing.Good experience in performing operations such as CRUD operations and writing complex queries with Oracle, MS SQL Server, and MongoDB.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database9i, 10g, and 11g architecture.  • Good experience on MongoDB scaling across data centers and/or in-depth understanding of MongoDB HA strategies, including replica sets.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Comfortable working with MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular, NodeJS) stack.  • Gained Knowledge on Electrode Platform which is a NodeJS/Web platform built on top of the ReactJS and HapiJS frameworks.  • Familiar with tools including Bugzilla, Jira, and Confluence.  • Implemented machine learning algorithms in Spark and Python, for segmentation of data. Created a Git, Jenkins repository and added the project to GitHub  • Expert in creating prediction models for pmml execution engine compatible with Visual Studio frameworks.  • Experience in implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, XML, Backbone JSON.  • Proficiency in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python-based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling, and Excel data extracts. Work Experience Python Developer Havi Global - Wilmington, DE January 2019 to Present • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Extensively used bulk collection in PL/SQL objects for improving the performing.  • Developed the ETL mappings in PL/SQL via packages, procedures, functions, views and triggers.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, Data Feeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Launching AWS EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Images (Linux/Ubuntu) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, and S3 buckets and Virtual Private Clouds (VPC)  • Experience in Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installing and configuring Kubernetes.  • Handled Java multi-threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  D• Extensively used Core Java collections, Generics, Exception handling, Design patterns for functionality, such as portfolio summary and user information  • Generated the Hibernate XML and Java Mappings for the schemas  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Deployed and monitored Microservices using pivotal cloud foundry, also managed domains and routes with the cloud foundry.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Created database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web based application. Python Developer Transunion - Chicago, IL October 2018 to December 2018 • Involved in development of entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Setup and administered network file system (NFS) to share data with Linux and across widow environment.  • Involved Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks and used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds and supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  • Used Django/ Python web-framework to develop application, Used MVC framework to build modular & maintainable applications.  • Developed ETL procedures to ensure conformity, compliance with standards and lack of redundancy, translates business rules and functionality requirements into ETL procedures using Informatica -Power Mart.Used AWS Athena to query the data on top s3 bucket(files in inbound) which helps the business people for data analysis  • Designed and developed Informatica's mappings and sessions based on business user requirements and business rules to load data from source flat files and oracle tables to target tables.  • Worked on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ.  • Data Translations (Verizon/Nortel/Siemens) on MSCs / BSCs for routes &Trunk modifications based on Traffic.  • Worked Java multi-threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  • Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents.  • Design/develop DCMd (Configuration Management framework) with Yang/XML models.    Python Developer  Five9 - San Ramon, CA  December 2014 to June 2017    • Developed front-end and back-end of the application using python on Django web framework.  • Automating data movements using python scripts, involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  • Used several python libraries like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas.  • Performed Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, WebStorm, IntelliJ and Visual Studio.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Called the RESTFUL webservices to get the JSON object (response) and manipulated the JSON object to display the response in the webpage.  • Worked in MySQL database on queries and writing stored procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Performed backupand recovery of MySQL databases.  • Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on webpages using the data from MongoDB.  • Creating scripts to migrate data between different databases like Oracle to Postgres and vice versa using enterprise migration tool kit and UNIX scripts.  • Used PowerShell for DevOps in Windows based systems  • Managed Linux and windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 using open-source chef server.  • Migrated the applications from internal data centre to AWS.  • Skilled in using collections in python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Delivering deliverables on time by working on agile and waterfall methodologies.  • Used Django for framework for accessing various consumer data from various sources.  Environment: Python-2.7, MySQL, Python Scripts, Oracle, JavaScrip (Model, View, Controller), Angular.js framework Barclays - Pune, Maharashtra June 2011 to September 2014 Pune  June 2011 to September 2014    • Analyzed the system requirement specifications and in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Working on DevOps platform and have gained experience in specialized areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation  • Involved in Devops tools such as Jenkins, Nexus, Chef and Ansible for build and deploy applications  • Used Ajax and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed frontend of application using Bootstrap (Model, View, Controller), Angular.js framework.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, pickle for development.  • Working knowledge of Java Web Services with real time knowledge using SOAP and REST.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing.  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used python library Beautiful Soup for Web scraping to extract data for building graphs  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on webpages using the data from MongoDB.  • For the large data management used TFS and delivered reliable end-product.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Java Script, jQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Linux, Sub Version, BeautifulSoup, NumPy, AJAX.  • Experience in using React.js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Redux, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Used React framework to built the website. Added Redux to simplified components data and state.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Used AngularJS UI-route to manage URL route.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Built application logic using Python 3.1.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling. Skills Api (Less than 1 year), Java (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Json (3 years), Junit. (Less than 1 year), Mongo db (3 years), Python (3 years)