PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER New York, NY • Over 4+ years of experience as an Application developer, software development and design  using Python, Django, XML, HTML, DHTML, Oracle PL/SQL.  • Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, strong experience in data engineering,  Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's  such as PyCharm.  • Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) and experience in  Agile Software Methodology.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC)  Architecture using server-side application Django.  • Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache,  MySQL, and PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in Web Application Development, hands on experience of Python/Django, Flask,  SQL Alchemy, SQLite, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and JSON/AJAX.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy,  wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of  histograms, etc.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python.  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm,  Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Efficient in using Python Spark API and efficient in using apache Spark.  • Experience in working on various python packages such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Pyside,  SciPy, and PyTables.  • Good knowledge in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages  MySQL- Python.  • Worked with Apache Spark and python for transforming the data and loading to HDFS.  • Good experience in performing operations such as CRUD operations and writing complex  queries with Oracle, MS SQL Server, and MongoDB.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services  with python programming language.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors,  Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java.  • Hands on experience with installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat server.  • Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Hands on experience with Build Automation tool like Maven, and version control tools such  as Git, and GitHub. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER JOHNSON & JOHNSON - San Francisco, CA November 2017 to November 2017 - PRESENT    • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development,  testing, and deployment.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development  and maintenance of the website using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Implemented a presentation layer using a CSS framework, Wire-Framing, and HTML5.  • Worked on server-side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like Open Stack.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Implemented machine learning schemes using python libraries like sci-kit-learn  and SciPy.  • Wrote scripts in Python for automation of testing Framework jobs.  • Worked on SOAP UI, Postman as part of Soap/Rest API calls testing.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as Chef and Puppet.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Validated the data of reports by writing SQL queries in PL/SQL Developer against ODS.  • Good Understanding of the Database Schema, Data Dictionary, Data Models for testing the data in an ETL process.  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open Stack.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Worked on AWS Cloud Formation and Terraform API to create infrastructure on AWS as a code.  • Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate  repetitive work.  • Worked in container-based technologies like Docker, Kubernetes and Open shift.  • Used Jenkins pipelines to drive all micro-services builds out to the Docker registry  and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes.  • Managing the Open shift cluster that includes scaling up and down the AWS app  nodes.  • Created Python script to monitor server load performance in a production  environment and horizontally scale the servers by deploying new instances.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web  Framework.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.    2 PYTHON DEVELOPER BANK OF AMERICA - New York, NY April 2016 to October 2017 Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development,  testing and deployment.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience  in Python.  • Developed user interface using CSS, PHP, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source  database.  • Designed and developed Use-Cases, Classes and Object Diagrams using UML  Rational Rose for Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Developed Apache Spark applications by using spark for data processing from various streaming sources.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web  apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Written Programs in Spark using Scala and Python for Data quality check  • Involved in develop the REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web  application.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Collaborated with internal teams and external teams to solve the issues and giving  feedbacks.  • Documented the problems and progress of project most accurately.  • Worked together with team during testing of data warehouses PYTHON DEVELOPER MICHAEL SMALL INSURANCE December 2014 to February 2016 Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases  of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with  various business users.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's, used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries scikit-learn and scipy.  • Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web-based application in OOP  concepts.  • Worked on several python packages like Matpoltlib, Pillow, Numpy, SQL Alchemy,  and sockets.  • Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions  of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product.    3  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp  data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data  manipulation.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Angular JS, Bootstrap for development  of Web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage  and deletion of content.  • Using Git version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS  and JavaScript, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python- MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data  from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile). Education MASTER OF TECHNOLOGY in COMPUTER SCIENCE STANFORD UNIVERSITY June 2013 to April 2014 BACHELOR OF TECHNOLOGY in COMPUTER SCIENCE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY DELHI June 2009 to May 2013