JavaScript & Python Developer JavaScript &amp; <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> JavaScript & Python Developer - Lenovo - Greater Chicago Area • 5+ years of strong Data engineering experience in IT industry involving Project analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance and documentation of different applications in various domains.  • I understand and experienced with the following; Pyramid, Django, Angular Js, Key Value Stores, Linux.  • Hands on experience with version control tools such as SVN, GitHub, and GitLab.  • Experience in Database modeling with SQL, MySQL and Oracle.  • Experience in testing frameworks like Behave.  • Experience in Web Application Development, hands on experience of Python/Django, Flask, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and JSON/AJAX.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, Oracle RDBMS, SQL Server, Unix and Linux.  • Experienced in Application Development using Python, RDBMS and Linux shell scripting and performance tuning.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN and CVS. Good experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python  • Architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid Python web application frameworks. Work Experience JavaScript & Python Developer Lenovo - Greater Chicago Area - Chicago, IL January 2017 to Present Greater Chicago Area    IT Automation application development for our freshly built Data Center.    Experience with the following:  • UX Design • HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (React) • Linux Command-line • Python 3.7 • Django/Flask • Data Engineering • Graph Databases • GIT, Docker, Ansible APIs, and Jenkins Python Developer Minneapolis, MN December 2015 to January 2017 Description:  Optum helps modernize the health system's infrastructure, advance care and empower individuals as they take control of their own health.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application. Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Developing GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developing and tested many features for dashboard using Python 3.x, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Developed scripts using pandas to easily perform read/write operations to CSV files, manipulate and compare data by columns.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  • Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all the AWS services Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  • Automated Regular AWS tasks like snapshots creation using Python scripts.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Working on Loading and transforming large sets of structured, semi structured and unstructured data using Hadoop/Bigdata concepts.  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it and Developed, Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking and Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug,    Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, Flask, REST API, AWS, HTML, CSS, NoSQL, PostgreSQL. JavaScript, jQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Firebug, Web Python Developer CoMakeIT - California City, CA August 2014 to December 2015 Description: CoMakeIT provides product engineering, application modernization, and digital transformation services to ISVs and enterprises across The Netherlands, UK, US.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the user interface of the project with HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Entire Front end and back end modules of the project are developed using Python with Django Framework.  • Designed and developed the data management systems using MySQL databases.  • Written Python Scripts to parse the XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized the existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in required formats.  • Client-side validations and manipulations are done using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  • Responsible for Debugging and troubleshooting the application.  • Utilized Subversion control tool to coordinate team work.  • Used Selenium Libraries to write fully functioning test automation process.    Environment: Python 2.6, Django, UNIX, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL and Bugzilla Education Bachelors in Computer Science University of Illinois Skills JAVASCRIPT (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), HTML (2 years), jQuery (2 years), HTML5 (2 years) Additional Information Skills    Web Technologies  HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XHTML, PHP, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 2+, AngularJS (1.x), Node.js, React JS, Ember.JS, Redux, Vue.Js, AJAX, JSON, DOM, XML, Bootstrap, SASS/LESS, and Restful API.    Languages  C, C++, Python, Ruby on Rails, C#, .Net and Java,