Chef and Ansible Chef and Ansible Chef and Ansible - Cardinal Health Python Developer    ? Overall 4 Years of Experience as web/application developer in software development and design using python, Django, Flask, java, Angular.js, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript.  ? Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations  ? Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5)  ? Experienced in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts  ? Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  ? Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  ? Experience in Kubernets which provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  ? Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  ? Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  ? Have Experience in List Comprehensions and Python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda. Work Experience Chef and Ansible Cardinal Health - Valencia, CA October 2018 to Present valencia, CA October 2018 to Present  Responsibilities:  ? Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  ? Developed Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  ? Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  ? Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  ? Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  ? Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  ? Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  ? Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  ? Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  ? Used Flask framework for application development.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  ? Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  ? Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and AngularJs.  ? Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  ? Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands. Python Developer Fannie - Mae, Texas October 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products, and processes.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  ? Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Services) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  ? Supported/maintained client website within the DJANGO CMS system for various website needs.  ? Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  ? Performed dynamic UI designing with HTML5, CSS3, less, Bootstrap, JSON and AJAX.  ? Created Python and Bash scripts to monitor & increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations.  ? Developed a Django CMS based promotion management system offering the ability to created arbitrary forms through an admin interface  ? Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack Monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has integrated Ansible with Run deck and Jenkins  ? Used GCP to create storage resources and define resource attributes, such as disk type or redundancy type, at the service level.  ? Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  ? Created a Python/Django based web application for data processing using MySQL as database, and HTML/CSS/JavaScript for frontend development and D3 JavaScript for Data Visualization.  ? Implemented REST API's in Python using python based micro-framework called Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  ? Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration.  ? Designed and developed MySQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  ? Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence  ? Installed and configured configuration tool such as Chef Server/workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes.  ? Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  ? Created and maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged virtual environment using Docker. Junior Python Developer July 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Build all database mapping classes using FLASK models.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Created Test plans. Worked on SQL scripts to load data in the tables.  ? Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on FLASK Framework.  ? Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Jinja and Angular.js.  ? Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  ? Reviewed product requirement documents, functional specifications, and involved in developing test strategy, test plan and test case documents.  ? Created Selenium web-driver automation scripts using Python to validate functionality on various browsers.  ? Very good understanding of Microsoft Azure cloud platform. Experience with managing cloud delivery platforms, Azure/Aws.  ? Established framework to setup Continuous Integration environment using Jenkins, Nexus.  ? Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  ? Involved in developing selenium automation framework using TestNG. Developed Maven targets to execute automation suites from command line.  ? Worked on AWS Cloud and Created instances in EC2.  ? Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated with the releases.  ? Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Subversion (SVN) Skills AWS (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), HTML5 (3 years), SQL (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: Python, C, C++, Shell Script, Java, PHP, PL/SQL, Ruby  Version Controls: GIT, GitHub, SVN, CVS  Web Technologies: JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, AngularJS, Node JS, React JS.  Frameworks: Django, Flask, Pyramid  Web Services: Soap, Apache Axis, Restful  Bigdata Technologies: Hadoop, Hive, Pig, Spark  Cloud: AWS  Databases: PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MS Access, SQL Server, Sybase, SQL Lite, SQL Alchemy  NoSQL Databases: Mongo DB, Redis, Cassandra    Operating Systems: Linux, Windows, IOS, MAC OSX.  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SMTP