Python / Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> / Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python / Django Developer - Dealer Track • 4+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  • Experience working in Java, JavaScript, and Python software development environments. Extensive experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Flask, Pyramid, and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Good experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev, NetBeans and Sublime Text.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Node.JS, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Experience in Python packages such as NumPy, matPlotlib, Pandas, SciPy, Pickling, JSON  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLACHEMY  • Pervasive experience on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap.  • Good Knowledge in setting up Python REST API Framework using Django  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla.  • Infrastructure deployment experience, Automation Test deployment.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Proven ability to analyze and understand complex systems, take them apart, and put them back together again, only better, and with fewer lines of code.  • Extensively used UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Have good knowledge on No-SQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC, STLC and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies.  • Involved in the issue resolution and Root Cause Analysis.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows, UNIX, and Linux.  • Exceptional problem solving and sound decision making capabilities, recognized by associates for quality of data, alternative solutions, and confident, accurate, decision making.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels. Work Experience Python / Django Developer Dealer Track - Lake Success, NY October 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, Node.JS.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used JQuery for all client side JavaScript manipulation.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Experience in Working with Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python Developer Medtronic - Eatontown, NJ December 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development, and implementation and testing.  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • For database access Django API's have been used.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Developed withPython 2.7 and Django 1.6.2 web frame work.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties  • Used Apache2 web services for these Caesar application.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Used Redis cache for storing commonly used info and propagate the changes using RabbitMQ.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems RESTful Web-Services were implemented.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats  • Provided technical and business knowledge to clients.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Manage MySQL content database, security and role management, apply updates, and maintain schema and documentation.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, JSON, CSS, JQuery UI, MySQL Python Developer Rio Grand - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN May 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for getting the teams up and running with game record features.  • Worked on requirement gathering and High level design.  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MSQL.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Created data access SQL and PL/SQL stored procedure  • Performed Unit/System test  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Developed GUI, HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib and Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Integrated with Redis Cache and Rabbit MQ to store and propagate common information like account and engine diagnostics information.  • Used Thales theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB and PostgreSQL.  • Applies EMV card algorithms to system via python programs.  • Contributed patches back to Django.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Visual Basic, Java Script, XML, JASPER, MySQL, PostgreSQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Bugzilla. Skills Django (4 years), HTML (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), MySQL. (4 years), Python (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Python, Core Java, C/C++, SQL, PL/SQL  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, Node.JS, AngularJS, DOM and SAX.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, Sqlite3  Python Libraries Memcache, UnitTest, JSON, CSV, XML, XLS  Frameworks Webpy, Bottlepy, Django, Zope  Testing Tools Bugzilla, JIRA  Version Control Tools SVN, Git, Github, CVS  IDE's NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio  Operating Systems Windows, Ubuntu, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x.  Programming Languages Python, Core Java, C/C++, SQL, PL/SQL