Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> United States Jersey City, NJ ? Around 3+ years of IT experience as Python developer with expertise in areas of Software Integration,  Configuration, Building microservices, automation tasks, benchmarking the APIs and scaling on cloud for  several markets driven international organizations.  ? Extensive experience designing, developing the backend microservice REST APIs    Scripting Languages Shell, Python 2.7, Python 3    Framework Flask 0.10.1, 0.12.2, Robot Framework    Tool Github, SVN, IBM Urban Code Deployment,    Cloud Technologies AWS EC2, ECS, S3, IAM, RDS, ELB, Elastic BeanStalk, Lambda, EBS, SNS, SQS,  CloudWatch, Cloud Formation, DynamoDB, VPC, Route53, AWS Boto3    Databases MySQL 5.7, MS SQL Server 2012 Work Experience Python Developer RBC Capital Markets April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed TDM tool to generate test data based on Syntax, Validity, Quality, Interseries,  Intraseries for edit checks.  ? Built desktop application to publish tableau workbooks to tableau site with automated data sources.  ? Migrating application from Python 2 to Python 3 with compatible modules, libraries.  ? Involved in deploying application to various environments using CI/CD tools, exporting large data various  data sources. Monitoring applications health and logs and fix in various environments.  ? Execute and monitor the core and monthly processes required to build and maintain a large data  warehouse.  ? Create test plans, test scenarios, test cases as a part of Unit/Integration Testing and use FRD's and BRD's to prepare test cases and test plans for allocated module.  ? Evaluate correlations among statistical data, identify trends and summarize findings across client and senior management.  ? Support day to day production support and provide timely resolutions for any production issues.  ? Send weekly status report to project stakeholders including testing and development metrics.  ? Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  ? Developed the Python script for the text analysis to extract the major keywords for the text document and store into database.  ? Involved in creation of AMIs, performed troubleshooting and monitoring of the Linux server on AWS.  ? Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python using modules.  ? Design and develop the test cases for REST API, Involved REST API test framework development. Python Developer February 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Working as a Python developer with making involved in hands-on development of highly scalable  self-service performance automation framework supporting any cloud provider heavily focused in AWS  that integrates with any deployment technologies like docker.  ? Best experience on developing the Microservices REST API using Python Flask.  ? Developing and integrating Microservices with third party application to eliminate the routine task team do everyday.  ? Developed Python microservices using python package psutil and deployed on AWS EC2 instance for system monitoring.  ? Used Flask with MySQL, Mongodb to perform the CRUD operations  ? Expertise in making REST APIs Serverless with AWS lambda with API Gateway and zappa.  ? Developed and integrated Slack with AWS boto3 to automate the task with aws resources like starting,  stopping, view running instances, R53, uploading files to S3.  ? Integrated Slack with Github API to the clone repo, view branches and tags for the repository.  ? Experience on unit testing the application using the python packages pytest and used the RESTPLUS to effort less swagger API documentation.  ? Worked on Swagger API and auto-generated documentation for all REST calls.  ? Hands on experience with dockerizing the application and deploying on the AWS EC2, ECS  ? Implementing Continuous Integration - Continuous build-test deployment process using Jenkins (CI/CD).  ? Managed Web applications, configuration files, users, file systems and packages using Ansible.  ? Automated the AWS alerts with python celery to schedule the jobs and manage the alerts. Python Developer QPair Inc January 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developed application for generating reports based on customer data and created dashboards using python  modules.  ? Develop easy to use documentation for the frameworks and tools developed for adoption by other systems.  ? Works with other team members, including DBA's, DevOps, PMO team.  ? Investigated new technologies, tools and processes and make recommendations for adoption.  ? Contribute to design and development of application features. Education Masters of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Rivier University Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Technology - Hyderabad, Telangana