Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - HCL America • Around 3 years of experience as a Python Developer and Software Engineer using Python, Django, Java script, HTML and SQL.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and Java.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Proficient in SQL databases MSSQL Server, MySQL, Oracle DB and Postgres.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and Postgres database.  • Strong Experience with Version Control tools like GIT and SVN for Source Code version management.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, Bit bucket and SVN in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experience with Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery by using tools like Jenkins.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT), User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Functional Testing.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test-driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Followed Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Experienced in Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse and Sublime.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Work Experience Python Developer HCL America - Cary, NC September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used the Model View Controller architecture in creating web application using Python Django framework.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Angular.js and Twitter Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Stored the data in the form of JSON structure-based documents, stored in a collection using MongoDB.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Worked on design and implemented a MongoDB based database and related web services for storing unstructured data.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.    Environment: Django, Bootstrap, XML, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, Rest, Git Hub, MySQL, Python, SQL Server, Java, XML, jQuery, DOM, MongoDB, CSS, AJAX, Windows and LINUX. Python Developer Alliant Credit Union - Chicago, IL January 2017 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python Scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used APIs to access the database.  • Worked on server-side applications with Django using python programming.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using python Shell scripting and XML.  • Developed the required JSON Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using python on Django Web  Framework.  • Experienced in using advanced PostgreSQL/MYSQL features like table partitioning and diverse types of oracle indexing. Backup and Restore experience with PostgreSQL/MYSQL database backups and point in time recovery.  • Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience in writing python scripts to migrate data from one database to the other  UIS system design ( python, Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation  Utilities, error/exception management etc.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Issues pertaining to real time data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Experience in Performing the Design and Code reviews.  • Writing Unit tests for every developed code.  Environment: Python, Django, REST API, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Linux, GitHub. Python Developer ADP - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the user interface of the project with HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Entire Front end and back end modules of the project are developed using Python with Django Framework.  • Designed and developed the data management systems using MySQL databases.  • Written Python Scripts to parse the XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized the existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in required formats.  • Client-side validations and manipulations are done using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  • Responsible for Debugging and troubleshooting the application.  • Utilized Subversion control tool to coordinate team work.  • Used Selenium Libraries to write fully functioning test automation process.    Environment: Python 2.6, Django, UNIX, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL and Bugzilla. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Ubuntu, Solaris, Windows and MacOS  Programming Languages Python, Algorithms, PL/SQL, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, C, C++, AngularJS, JAVA  Databases Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server and PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Tools Django and Flask, PL/SQL Developer, and TOAD, Spyder, Visual Studio.  Integration Tools Jenkins, IBM integration and Web Builder  Web Server Apache Webserver, IIS  Defect Tracking JIRA, Bugzilla, and VersionOne  Cloud services AWS.  Version Control SVN, GIT