Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer • Over 5 years of experience as an Application Developer using Python, Django and Mongodb  • Hands on experience in developing backend applications and APIs using Python/Django, Mongodb and Mysql  • Extensive experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django Python web application frameworks.  • Experience with Version Control tools like SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3and XML/JSON JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, based SOAP and REST web services.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experienced with Object Oriented Programming, Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding and testing of enterprise applications.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing.  • Good Experience in error and exceptional handling.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST and knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Good knowledge in various phases of SDLC Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects. Work Experience Python Developer T-Mobile - Sunnyvale, CA April 2018 to March 2019 Responsibilities:  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Experience in developing views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Migrated platform from physical server to virtual environment. Took it from development into production by wiring up a Nginx stack.  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and AngularJs.  • Developed Python Script for moving files from dropbox to Amazon server.  • Created API Keys and Usage plans in AWS API Gateways and used the keys across the regions for using the API Gateway  • Written Python Scripts for loading data from CSV files into the database tables.  • Documented tasks in Confluence and related them to the JIRA tickets.  • Extensive experience in using Python /Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline  • Experience working with version control systems such as Git and Apache SVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  • Excellent experience in designing and maintaining complex SQL queries and developing PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Followed the best practice of Python such as PEP-8.  • Developed Python scripts to execute Stored Procedures and load data from various forms of csv files into staging tables in SQL Server database.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask    Environment: Python, Django, Flask, MVC, HTML, CSS Python Developer USAA - Houston, TX December 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Handled potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors) through error handling and communication of failure.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Worked on Restful API's to access the third-party data for the internal analysis and statistical representation of data.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Involved in User Acceptance Testing and prepared UAT Test Scripts.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python and portlet.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, MVC, Linux, HTML, CSS and Javascript Python Developer Iton Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to July 2015 Project: iScrum    Description: Worked on development of backend services using Python, Mongodb and Linux. Created many API's for Iscrum project which involves creating and maintaining projects in an organization. I am also involved in ITON video calling application using python websockets and developed UI using HTML/CSS and Javascript.    Responsibilities:  • Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL  • Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.  • Developed web-based applications using Python 3.4/3.3, XML, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Responsible for the design and development of Python services for a project management software called iscrum.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Experience in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views, Templates using CSS for whole site following Django MVC architecture.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Worked on requirement gathering and High-level design.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Used Restful API's to gather network traffic data from Servers.  • Developed entire frontend and back end modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT. Used HTML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for frontend applications.  • Involved in developing a video calling application using python web-sockets.  • Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Created script in Python for calling REST APIs.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Eclipse, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, Testing, Implementation and Operations support    Environment: Python, MongoDB, MVC, Linux, HTML, CSS and JavaScript Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communications Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills CSS (4 years), DJANGO (4 years), Git (4 years), HTML (4 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 2.5-2.7/3.4-3.6, Shell Script, Java, SQL, Asp.net, C#  Python Framework Django 1.3/1.4, Web2py, Python Servlet engine  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, MongoDB  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Json, Java Script,  Versioning Tools MVC, SVN, CVS, Git  IDE PyCharm, PyDev, Sublime Text, Eclipse  SDLC Methodologies Software Development Lifecycle Agile Methodology, Scrum framework  Web servers Apache, IIS  Operating systems Windows 8, 10, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x  Testing Tools PyTest