Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Forward Lane Pompano Beach, FL • Around 4.5 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications in Python  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and C++.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, C++, XML, CSS3, and HTML5.  • Experience with Web Development, Python and the Django framework.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN.  • Experience in developing web applications implementing MVC architecture using Django framework and SQLAlchemy.  • Hands on experience in working with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, Reportlab, Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Hands on experience in working with Python ORM libraries including Django ORM, SQL Alchemy.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Experienced in Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle and MySQL.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments. Work Experience Python Developer Forward Lane - Fort Lauderdale, FL September 2018 to Present • Experienced working with server-side production code for application that are robust and high volume.  • Researched and solve various technical problems, including information extraction from unstructured text,  Categorization and de-duplication.  • Developed applications using mix of technologies ( Python, Django, Flask, Pandas, REST, and SOLR).  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and Flask.  • Experienced in ticketing assigning tool like Jira, Bugzilla.  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and PyLint.    • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.Displayed and proved capability to learn any new technology and work on it.    • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process. Python Developer Integra Technologies llc - Wilmington, DE June 2017 to September 2018 Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented  Programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language for the Web application.  • Implemented Microservices architecture in developing the web application with the help of Flask framework.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM and have good knowledge on Project management tools. Used Apache to deploy production site.    • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, Bitbucket. GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment.  • Strong experience using Web Services and API's in python    • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, PostgreSQL    • Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.    • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, Pycharm, Atom, Eclipse, PyDev and Sublime Text.    • Experience with Requests, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.    • Experience in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views, Templates using CSS for whole site following Django MVC architecture.Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security. Jr. Python Developer Hitachi Electronics - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2012 to July 2015 IN    • Designed the Web application Using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible and Flexible.  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications  • Building reusable code and libraries for future use.  • Developed scalable applications using Django framework.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making .Maintained and improved the security level of data.  • Responsible for security standard implementation and data protection.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns  and fixing them.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for testing the functionality of the application.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multithreading functionality.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Northwestern Polytechnic University - Fremont, CA May 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Gujarat Technological University - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2014 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Python, Embedded SQL, C, C++  Frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask  Scripting Languages HTML, CSS  Databases MS SQL Server MS-Access, MY SQL, Oracle, MongoDB, SQLite, PL/SQL, NoSQL  User Interfaces HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, XML, DOM, XAML, , Restful, WSDL, Web Services,  Libraries NumPY, Panda, Beautiful Soup  Operating Systems Linux, Windows, Windows Server 2003, Version Control Team Foundation Server (TFS), Subversion, Clear Case  Tools & IDE PowerShell, Eclipse PyDev, Wing 3.1, Django South, Fabric deployment tool, Pytest, PyCharm, Sublime, Eclipse, NetBeans  SDLC Waterfall, RAD, Agile, Scrum  Packages Dockers, Kubernetes, MS Office (Word, Excel and PowerPoint), MS outlook, Lotus Notes  Others  GIT, PIP, PEP8, RESTful Web Services, OpenCV, Django-Debug-Toolbar, DataStage, CA workload automation, Service now, MicroStrategy, Quality Center, Slack