Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer San Francisco, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Medidata - San Francisco, CA July 2017 to Present Description: Medidata Solutions is an American technology company that develops and markets software as a service solution for clinical trials  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Technical experience with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  • Used HTML5/CSS, Bootstrap, and JavaScript for UI development.  • Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  • Used Restful API's with JSON, XML to extract Network traffic information.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Deployed the application on cloud using AWS.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project  history.  • Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  • Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization/debug at the deployment site  • Worked with offshore teams and internal clients to Design and analyze the requirements of in-house applications.  • Create a data ingestion pipeline using Apache Airflow to load data from different sources like MySQL, Oracle and Hive.    Environment: Python 3 Django 1.11, MySQL, Amazon S3, Jenkins, Git, Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON, Restful Web Services, JavaScript, Linux. Python Developer AT&T - San Francisco, CA August 2016 to May 2017 Description: Responsible for developing web-application for At&T, which aimed to complete product Introduction in market. Purpose of Self-Service Order-ability was to allow user to run bunch of validation before making product available in market and making assure that existing product are working fine on commerce perspective.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings and follows agile methodology.  • Using OPPS concept using Python programming language.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed rich user interface using Django framework.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Used Ajax and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from JSON and XML files.  • Designed, added and maintained new database tables for new functions  in MySQL database.  • Involved in development of rich user interface components using JSON, Ajax, jQuery and HTML5.  • Used Angular JS and Ajax for access the data from server and response to client.  • Tested and debugged the product in controlled and real situations.  • Used Git and Jira for code submissions and issue tracking.    Environment: Python 3.6, Django 1.8, Cloud Computing, MySQL, Auto test framework, Test scripts, bash scripts Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux.    Bitwise Solution Python developer February 2014 to March 2015 Description:    Aspire Software is an information technology company in India. The company provides Software application development and maintenance in various business sectors. I worked on Inventory management system, which provides Manage product list, sales details per day, week and monthly. This application will manage employee details, Product details and reports.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, GitHub, Jira, Restful, MySQL, XML Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Northwestern P University 2017 Bachelor of computer in Application in computer Metas Adventist College 2014 Skills DJANGO (3 years), HTML (2 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), PYTHON (4 years), XML (2 years) Additional Information Technical Proficiency:    • Languages: Python 3/2.4, C++, C, Java, Shell Script  • Framework: Django, Flask, Apache Airflow  • Storage: MySQL, SQL Server 2008, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  • Cloud: Amazon Cloud EC2, Amazon S3  • Web Technologies: JavaScript, HTML, JSON, XML, and Load Balancers  • Protocols: HTTP, ACL, IPv4/v6, TCP/IP  • Versioning Tools: Git  • Operating systems: Linux/Unix, MAC OS, Windows  • Tools: Hadoop, Hive, Spark