Python/Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python/Django Developer • Having 4 years of experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django and client-server technologies based applications.  • Experienced in HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Expert in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts using Python and Java.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, NetBeans, and Spyder  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Developed web applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Familiar with XML/JSON based SOAP and REST web services.  • Good experience in handling errors and exceptions.  • Experienced in debugging the issues using debuggers like gdb, pdb.  • Hands on experience with various application servers and web servers including Apache http servers, Web logic and WebSphere.  • Expertise in working with different databases using Oracle, MySQL.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with the DDL and DML queries.  • Knowledgeable with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java API, Swing, HTML3/4/5, Flex, JavaScript, CSS2/3, JQuery, JDBC, JSF, JMS, XML  • Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Python, Corn and Shell scripting.  • Experience on LAMP & WAMP. (Windows, Apache, MySQL and PHP) architecture.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing with unit test and integration testing with pyvows.  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experienced in developing applications using agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum and also using Waterfall methodology.  • Worked on various operating systems Windows XP/7/8/10, UNIX and Linux.  • Data manipulation.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python/Django Developer Guardant Health Inc - Redwood City, CA February 2018 to January 2019 Python Developer Python - Dayton, OH February 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Taken part in software development life cycle (SDLC) of the tracking systems Requirements, Gathering, Analysis, Detail Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  • Created UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, and JQuery.  • Implemented business logic using Python Web frame work Django.  • Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frame works.  • Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python.  • Worked on CSS Bootstrap to develop web applications.  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Implemented Model View Control architecture in developing web applications using Django frame work.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • ETL process for continuously bulk importing catalog data into Elastic search.  • Worked with millions of database records daily, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web-scraping.  • Developed applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML/CSS, CSS Bootstrap, Pyramid, Zope, MySQL, T-SQL, Jasper Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting.  Care Source, Dayton, OH  Feb 2017 - Jan 2018  Python Developer Python Developer Python - Pune, Maharashtra January 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on server-side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib.  • Used Pandas for a data alignment and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.  Environment: Python 2.7,2.5, Java 1.7, Django 1.7, 1.5, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet MS SQL Server, Nginix server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Elastic search, T-SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, and MAC OSX.  Teradata India pvt ltd, Pune, MH  Python Developer  Jan 2014 - Dec2015 Skills AJAX (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), CSS (2 years), database (2 years), Django (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: C, C++, Python, JavaScript, PHP, XML, JAVA, SQL    Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows, DOS, VMware, Mac OS, Debian  Web Technologies: HTML/ HTML5, CSS/ CSS3, XML, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and CSS Bootstrap  Frameworks: DJango, Flask, Pyramid, Pyjamas, Jython  Protocols: OSI Reference Model, IPv4 and IPv6 addressing and subnetting, Ethernet LAN, TCP/IP, DNS, HTTP, NFS, SSL, SSH, UDP, switches, routing concepts, virtual network concepts including vSwitches, VLANs, dvSwitch, TCP/IP stack for virtualization, IPVP4, IPV6, FTP, Intranet  Database: Postgre SQL, MS Access, SQL Server, MYSQL