Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - BANK OF AMERICA Charlotte, NC ? Technology and business visionary with 4 years of Software Engineering Experience in Analysis, Designing, Developing, Testing, Automation, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement and Implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise applications.  ? Experience working in Financial Domain for Capital Management, Risk Management, Fixed Income, Equities, Derivatives, Risk Weight.  ? Experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using various design patterns.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.5/2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3/1.9, Flask, and Quartz.  ? Proficient in implementing PEP8 coding standards for all the projects.  ? Expertise in HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, d3.js, JQuery, AngularJS, Node.js, JSON and XML using XML Schema Definition (XSD).  ? Experience in working with different python packages like Pandas, BeautifulSoup,  Numpy, Matplotlib, PyMC, SciPy, PySpark and web scraping.  ? Experience working on with Integrated Development Environments (IDE's) like PyCharm, and Sublime text, Qzdev.  ? Experience working on with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Amazon EC2 instances, Load Balancing, Amazon Dynamo DB.  ? Experience on developing personal project using NLP (Natural language processing).  ? Experience working on Data Analysis, Data Mining, Data Munging, Data processing using Spark, Pandas.  ? Experience working on Machine learning.  ? Experience working on R programming language, Matlab and Jupyter Visualization.  ? Experience working on ETL, Data Transforming, Data Load from Upstream data.  ? Working experience on message queuing systems mainly on message delivery technologies, such as RabbitMQ and JMS  ? Working experience on Tensorflow, Spark, Hive in a HDFS(Hadoop Distributed File System)  ? Good experience working on SOA platform.  ? Experience working with Go language.  ? Exposure to lab environments for testing instruments.  ? Experience in working with Data Analytics software Tableau.  ? Good knowledge on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap, SASS.  ? Good exposure over Core Java and Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  ? Expertise in developing Bar-plots, Google charts, Boxplots, histograms, Grouped plots, Scattered plots.  ? Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB and relational databases like SQLite, MySQL databases, PostgreSQL(RDBMS), IBM Netezza, PostgreSQL, T-SQL(TSQL)  ? Skilled in writing services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application.  ? Worked on RHEL for file modification, navigation, search and ownership modifications.  ? Worked on Version Control Systems like GitHub, SVN.  ? Experience working with Big Data and exposure to distributed computing platforms like Hadoop.  ? Experience working with Restful Web Services.  ? Experience working on detmaterialize zone(DMZ) on security operations to provide additional security from external attacks.  ? Experience working with SSH client on the Linux Operating System.  ? Working experience in using real-time search engines like Elastic search and fluency in using ELK (Elastic Search, Logstash and Kibana) stack.  ? Experience working on Apache Kafka.  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Behavior Driven Development, Load Testing.  ? Working experience on Docker for system level virtualization.  ? Experience working on Airflow for workflow management.  ? Experience working on SCPI commands with instruments as part of Instrument software driver creation.  ? Good knowledge on Machine learning with TensorFlow. Keras and Theano.  ? Expertise on working with Cloud Business Intelligence(Cloud BI) creating dashboards, KPI's and other business analytics.  ? Worked on writing unit testing code and integrated the test code with the build process.  ? Proficient in working on with REST and SOAP Web Services handling XML and JSON data.  ? Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9i (9.2.0.8), 10g (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4, 10.2.0.5), and 11g (11.2.0.3, 11.2.0.4).  ? Expertise on working with the Networking protocols like TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS.  ? Experience working with Issue tracking tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  ? Experience in Agile Development (Iterations and standup meetings etc).  ? Used the best practices of test-driven development, SCRUM, Continuous Integration, refactoring and code standards.  ? Working experience in working with Amazon Web Services like EC2, Virtual private clouds(VPCs),Storage models(EBS,S3, instance storage) ,Elastic Load Balancers(ELBs.)  ? Experience working on Amazon Lambda.  ? Experience writing custom queries through database connectors.  ? Experience on working with excel sheets and csv files creating, updating with python packages.  ? Experience on working with Web Servers like Apache, Nginx.  ? Experience in Test Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior Driven Development (BDD). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer BANK OF AMERICA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Working on BSCMT (Balance Sheet Capital Management Technology), Data Analysis, Risk Management, Fixed Income, Derivatives in Bank of America to develop web application and internal calculators.  ? Worked on writing numerous python decorators.  ? Worked on writing unit-test modules with various test cases for every main module.  ? Worked on automating the data updates using python regular expressions using ( python re library)  ? Worked on Jenkins build for the project. Involves configuring Git repository with Jenking build, Setting up post build process like code coverages, generating build failure templates.  ? Worked on d3.js to build dynamic interactive visualizations in web browsers.  ? Written shell scripts for daily, monthly and event based trigger process.  ? Worked on Test Automation using NOSE.  ? Worked on creating tables, views, indexes on Netezza database.  ? Worked on Matplotlib, Pandas Data frame, urllib2 for data analysis.  ? Extensively worked on ETL transforming the data, Creating workflows, Creating Views, Triggers.  ? Test Driven Approach with unit test code coverage at minimal of 80%, Load Testing.  ? Peer to Peer review process on the developed code.  ? Worked on fixing the Build issues during the deployment procedures to all lower lanes and higher environments.  ? Worked on cloud BI(Business Intelligence)  ? Experience working on yaml serialization.  ? Worked on application development using Go.  ? Worked on developing Bar-plots, Google charts, Boxplots,  ? Worked on front end UI development with cross dependent Risk Management teams using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Worked on Teradata for huge Data Anlaysis.  ? Worked closely with Business Analysts to convert the BASEL standard's book of work to technical requirements.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  ? Worked on SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, Tables, Views and Triggers.  ? Performed Industry best standards by doing Smoke tests on the code deployed on higher environments.  ? Experience working on Jenkins.  ? Worked on Back-end development with Django framework, Created Models, Migrations.  ? Created MySQL connector to establish database connection and MySQL cursor () to access and fetch the data, load the data.  ? Written various queries using Aggregation frame work on MongoDB NoSQL Database  ? Worked on MySQL client as database connector for MySQL.  ? Responsible for group's primary function to ensure adequate controls and processes exist to validate the firm's Securities activity for the purposes.  ? Responsible for Execution of tactical and strategic solutions and address the data gaps.  ? Overseen a number of Sub-Ledger reconciliations across different ASSET/LIABILITY classes and be able to handle all day-to-day inquiries from numerous downstream stakeholders  ? Responsible for working on various Audit issues and provided Audit Request Packages.    Environment: Python (2.7/3.5), Quartz (Bank of America framework), Django (1.9), JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Shell Scripting, VersionOne, SVN, Netezza, MySQL, MongoDB Linux, ETL Python Developer PAYPAL - SANJOSE, CA, US July 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:    ? Developing Web Applications with W3C, XHTML, HTML5, PHP, CSS3 standards and using Python, Django.  ? Worked on Payment Processing which involves monitoring payments and provide required solutions.  ? Involved in the complete software life cycle (SDLC) to develop the web application.  ? Coding application using Python, Django in End-to-End Web application development using MVC architecture while front-end is built on CSS3 and HTML5.  ? Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PyUnit.  ? Designed Database Model for the entire application Creating tables, Views and Stored procedures.  ? Configured DMZ for additional security from external attacks which prevents email spoofing.  ? Worked o Sigle firewall and Dual firewall to create network architecture  ? Worked on PyVISA to control instruments with python. Worked on different protocols working with measurement instruments.  ? Working experience on Red Hat Enterprise Linux(RHEL), Creating Red Hat Virtual Machine, Dual boot Red Hat and Windows.  ? Doing file folder ownership modifications on RHEL, File system navigation.  ? Performed Scalable Computing and data analytics of big data.  ? Used Ruby scripts for migrating the existing database to Amazon Web Services.  ? Created Database Schema for MySQL Database and involved in designing ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  ? Worked on Test Automation using PYTEST(py.test). Done parametrization to automate tons of number of tests to minimal.  ? Worked on Restful API's to access the third party data for the internal analysis and statistical representation of that data.  ? Worked on Pandas to import the data, Sort and plot the statistical data using histograms.  ? Worked on Python Scripts to create Excel and CSV files for documenting the Statistical Reports.  ? Used Pandas for Statistical Analysis in the application and Numpy for the advance math functionalities.  ? Experience with Python Libraries such as HTTPLib2, Urllib2.  ? Used GitHub for Version Control System and deployed the project code into Heroku.  ? Worked on XML documents based on XML Schema definition (XSD) with python scripts to load the data to database.  ? Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens and the user entry validations.    Environment: Python 3.5/2.7, Django 1.7, HTML5, CSS3, Ruby, JIRA, TDD, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, AWS, MySQL, Angular JS, Linux, Apache, XML, Git. Python Developer NOKIA July 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:    ? Developed Enterprise Application in an AGILE environment using Python, Django, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  ? Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements specifications and involved in Client interaction during requirement specifications.  ? Developed Enterprise Application using BDD (Behavior-Driven Development) software development process.  ? Worked on responsive design of Analytic Charts and Vector Maps.  ? Used PyQtto Python Package to create Data tables and perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on SQL database.  ? Very Large Datasets are managed through Panda Data Frames and MongoDB.  ? Used Pandas to save the data as time series and also to manipulate and retrieve the data form tabular format with time series.  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and used SQLAlchmey to fetch the data.  ? Worked on Regex (Regular Expressions) for pattern matching algorithms.  ? Tested Various Regular expressions using URL Dispatchers in Django.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.5, HTML5, CSS3, Node.js, JQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap, SQL, MongoDB, AWS, Linux, XML, JSON, SQL, SOAP, RESTful API's, MongoDB, Nginx, AWS S3, Git. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University 2014 to 2015 Skills Django (4 years), Git (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), JQuery. (4 years), Linux (4 years) Additional Information SKILLS:    Programming Languages Python, Java, Perl, C, C++, PHP, Ruby,R  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2, Jenkins, Ansible, Puppet, Chef  Databases Netezza, MySQL, Sqlite3, MongoDB, SQL, Oracle(10g, 11g), PostgreSQL, Teradata  Frameworks Django, Flask, Quartz, Angular JS, Node JS  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5,CSS/CSS3,Javascript, XML, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and Bootstrap.  Operating Systems Windows, MacOS, UNIX and Linux.  IDE SublimeText, Pycharm, QZdev  Version Control Tools and other tools Git, SVN  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS  Testing Frameworks Unittest, JUNIT, Mock  Analytic Tools Google Analytics, Fiddler  Webserver Apache, Nginix, Tomcat, Weblogic  Cloud Computing AWS EC2, S3.