Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Change Health Care Nashville, TN • 5 years of experience in IT industry involving Project analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance and documentation.  • Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) and experience in Agile Software Methodology.  • Extensive knowledge in Python, Core Java, MySQL, XSL, Oracle, UNIX and Linux.  • I understand and experienced with the following; Pyramid, Django, Angular Js, Key Value Stores, Linux.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and Core Java.  • Experience in Database modelling with SQL, MySQL and Oracle.  • Expertise in usage of Django Framework for developing web applications.  • Good knowledge in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages MySQL- Python.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  • Good experience in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance  Testing (UAT).  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results.  • Experience in testing frameworks like Behave.  • Experience in Web Application Development, hands on experience of Python/Django, Flask, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and JSON/AJAX.  • Designed the UI using HTML5, Angular JS, jQuery and CSS. At client end, I use ANGULAR JS framework, HTML5 and CSS3 with third party libraries.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Work Experience Python Developer Change Health Care May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of users.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of users.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, AWS, API Gateway, Java, J2EE, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, CloudWatch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. Python Developer AVERTRA, VA November 2016 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day-to-day tasks.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Tested and debugged the product in controlled and real situations.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux Python Developer Delta Technologies - IN May 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Experience of analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software.  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Experienced with controllers, views and models in Django & working as an application developer.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed Python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  • Developed a dashboard to display tickets status and workflow using React and REST API.  • Developed the Stateless Session bean for processing the business logic.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, MYSQL, Cassandra, JIRA. Education Masters of Science Computer Engineering in University of Houston Clearlake in Houston - Houston, TX Bachelors Gandhi Institute of Technology and Management in India