Python Developer [Graduate Research Assistant] <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> [Graduate Research Assistant] Python Developer [Graduate Research Assistant] Fairborn, OH • Recent Graduate with 2 + years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server applications using Python , Django , Flask and AWS.  • Actively participated in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Experienced in developing applications using Agile Methodologies, Waterfall Methodology and Scrum stories.  • Experienced in developing User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX and XML.  • Worked with Object Oriented concepts like Creating Classes, Inheritance, Constructors, Polymorphism, Encapsulation, Overloading and Overriding.  • Good Experience with Python web frameworks such as Django and Flask  • Cognitive about designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Good Knowledge and Experience in python testing modules like Pytest, Unitest and Doctest.  • Knowledge in Model View Controller (MVC) frameworks like Django and Angular JS.  • Have knowledge in handling REST and SOAP Web Services and have Knowledge of Servers like Apache Tomcat and Web Logic.  • Have knowledge of relational databases like Oracle SQL and MySQL.  • Experience in writing SQL, Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like Linux, UNIX and WINDOWS.  • Good knowledge of Bash Scripting and Linux/Unix File System.  • Experience in using various version control systems like Git, GitHub and SVN.  • Have work experience with various Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Geany, Eclipse, Spyder and NetBeans.  • Well experienced in Core Java - asynchronous programming, multithreading, collections and a few design patterns.  • Have knowledge and experience of Core Java libraries like Java.util, Java.io, Java.net, Java.sql, Java.swing and Servelets.  • Good knowledge and experience on Java build tools like ANT and MAVEN.  • Knowledge of advanced level programming in C/C++ including thread synchronization multithreading, multi-processing, concurrency and TCP/IP Socket Programming.  • Have knowledge of Python packages like NumPy, Pandas, Scikit-learn, Tensorflow, Seaborn, Matploblib, Nltk, openpyxl and Pickle.  • Have knowledge in Unit Test Plans (UTP), Integrated Test Plans (ITP) Extensive experience in User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Good knowledge on Hadoop , Hive, Mapreduce, Hbase , Pig and Spark.  • Good knowledge on NoSQL databases like MongoDB.  • Good communication and problem solving skills. Always keen to learn new technologies and algorithms.  • Willing to go an extra mile to solve the problem and achieve the results. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer [Graduate Research Assistant] Data Analytics and Optimization Laboratory January 2016 to December 2017 Description: The DAOL focuses on Engineering Service Systems, with specific focus on supply chain and healthcare systems engineering. It has been awarded over $1.7 million in grants and contracts from agencies such as the NSF, the VA, the State of Ohio, local industries, and Wright State University. This has helped DAOL to develop cutting-edge solutions to real-world challenges using advanced data analytics, predictive modeling, simulation, and optimization approaches.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 3.4, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3.0, AJAX, JSON and jQuery Designed a Web Application based on Multi-Tier Architecture using the current most popular web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and RESTful Web Services.  • Design, implement and maintain Java application phases. To take part in software and architectural development activities. Conduct software analysis, programming, testing and debugging  • Transforming requirements into stipulations. Develop, test, implement and maintain application software. Recommend changes to improve established Java application processes. Develop technical designs for application development. Develop application code for Java programs  • Worked on Python Scientific packages like NumPy and Pandas to handle data sets effectively.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL and Involved in the development ORM Queries.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Python as backend languages.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed, and Lock mechanisms were implemented, and the functionality of multi-threading has been used.  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL. Involved in the development ORM Queries.  • Interactive images from customer data are created using Highcharts and D3 JavaScript libraries.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Python, Java, Django, MySQL, AWS, EC2, jQuery, and Angular JS. Python Developer [Student Intern] National Atmospheric Research Laboratory April 2014 to September 2014 Description: NARL is an autonomous research laboratory fully funded by the Department of Space, Government of India and involved in carrying out fundamental and applied research in Atmospheric and Space Sciences. It had its humble beginning in 1992 as the National Mesosphere-Stratosphere-Troposphere(MST) Radar Facility. NARL has now become one of the prime centers for atmospheric research in the country and operates a state-of-the-art MST radar, Rayleigh/ Mie Lidar, Boundary Layer Lidar, Sodium Lidar, Lower Atmospheric Wind Profiler, Sodar, Disdrometer, Optical Rain Gauge, Dual frequency GPS receiver, Automatic Weather Station apart from regular launching of the GPS balloon sonde.  Responsibilities:  • Partnered with researchers at NARL to plan, develop and implement Acoustic Receiver.    • Created a new application using Python and PyQT to find the optimal position of the receiver which effects the efficiency of the receiver.    • This resulted in a 5% increase in the accuracy of predicting the weather.    • Worked on a lightweight Web framework emphasizing flexibility and rapid development with the help of pylons.  • Written Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data into the database.  • To share the information across the applications used pickle/unpickle in python.  • Utilized Python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib for generating graphical reports.  • Worked on the development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Experience in UNIX environment in developing the application and familiar with all its commands.  • Worked in developing the screens for delete, Edit, Enable, Disable and Impersonate Users in a web application.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Executed MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Implemented and consumed Task Schedulers for scheduling job priority while distributing data and map/reduce functions over Grid.  • Created time sensitive scripts to parse to large sets of serialized, unstructured data objects (30 Million), filtering and reducing data into functional reports.  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Involved in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application.  • Implemented the application in UNIX environment and comfortable with all its commands.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  • Responsible debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Ensured the best possible performance, quality, and responsiveness of the applications.    Environment: Python, SciPy, Pandas, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, MySQL, jQuery, Bootstrap, MS SQL Server, Git, GitHub and Shell Scripting,    HACKATHONS  • SpartahackIV: Designed a disease predicting web application using HTML, JavaScript, Python, Django Machine Learning and NLP for disease symptom data from Kaggle.  • Derbyhacks: Designed a Image recognition application which monitors users habits using Python, Tensorflow and OpenCV  • Hack-CWRU: Designed an application using Python which will parse devpost.com and produces statistics and graphs.. Scikit-learn and Matplotlib are used to generate statistics and live graphs. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Wright State University - Dayton, OH 2016 to 2017 Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge and Technologies 2011 to 2015 Skills AJAX (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), Django (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), MySQL (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages C, C++, Python, Java, C# and Scheme  Frameworks Django, Flask, Angular JS, Bootstrap  Scripting Languages JavaScript, CSS and Bash  Mark-up Languages HTML,DHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, DOJO and XML  Python Libraries  Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2, Nltk, Tensorflow, Theano, OpenCV, Tkinter, PyQt and Seaborn    Databases Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL and SQLServer  Operating Systems Linux, Windows, Mac and Linux  IDE Tools Pycharm, Spyder, Eclipse, Visual Studio and Netbeans  Web Services SOAP, REST, WSDL  Version Control Systems SVN, Git and Github  Testing Tools Pytest, Unittest, Junit, Nose, Coverage, Mock and Selenium  Cloud Technologies AWS, S3,ECE,Athena