Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Palo Alto, CA About 6 years of Professional Python development experience using Python, Django inclusive of 2 years’ worth of experience in UI.  Proficient skills of generating Python Django forms to record data of online users as well as using PyTest for writing test cases.  Experience designing Data management system using MySQL.    Understanding of Waterfall and Agile Software methodology used for modeling systems and business processes.   Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.     Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.   Know-hows of API’s like Cb APIs as well as BigFix APIs.  Designing & developing UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and Javascript.  Extensive knowledge in Django, Python, PostgreSQL, and REDIS.    Conscientious with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.    Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.     Hands-on experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQLite3, MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  Hands-on experience with several IDE’s like Sublime, PyCharm, Notepad++, Vim, Atom.  Team work, coordination of personnel involved in several projects at time, and usage of developing methodologies (SCRUM). Currently certified as Scrum Master. Fast learning and adaptation to existent environments of work, goals, tasks, and milestones  Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer VMware - Palo Alto, CA July 2016 to Present Description:  VMware, Inc. is a subsidiary of Dell Technologies, provides cloud and virtualization software and services and claims to be the first to successfully virtualize x86architecture commercially.  The Project is about introducing new functionality in an existing internal application that triggers a device maintaining the performance of several Hosts and Virtual machines in a graphical representation.    Responsibilities:  • Writing reusable, testable, and efficient code.  • Design and implementation of low-latency, high-availability, and performant applications Implementation of security and data protection.  • Creating a database schema with Django ORM using MySQL and Oracle databases.  • Using Django framework for web development.  • Access the development virtual machines using shell scripting in UNIX and deploy the source code.  • Work well with distributed teams with onsite / offshore model.  • Work proactively to predict and minimize potential issues before they arise and resolve those that do in a timely manner.  • Environment: Python, Django, UNIX, Linux, Gitlab, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime(IDE), MySQL, Oracle, HTML/CSS. Python Developer National Oilwell Varco(NOV) - Houston, TX December 2014 to June 2016 Description:  National Oilwell Varco(NOV) is a leading worldwide provider of equipment and components used in oil and gas drilling and production operations, oilfield services, and supply chain integration services to the upstream oil and gas industry. The project is to create and maintain the application for the asset management team that manages all assets under single repository as well as measuring asset performance and track failure metrics.    Responsibilities:  • Integration of user-facing elements developed by front-end developers with server side logic.  • Building reusable code and libraries for future use    • social networking website around online HD streaming video.    • Developed scalable applications using Django framework.  • Performed documentation and user training.  • Built key modules including Photo gallery, News & Events, Investors, Profiles & Segments.    • email    • Wrote multi-thread scripts to obtain optimal performance.  • Used AJAX to reduce page reloads.  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Wrote complex SQL queries.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python's XML parser architectures (SAX) and DOM API for tracking small amounts of data without requiring the DB.  • Developed widgets for GUI using Tkinter, Gtk modules of Python.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multithreading functionality.    • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and implementation and support.  • Optimized the code using smart pointers, profilers and C++ Standard template library.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks  • Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, MongoDB. Python Developer Ericsson - Plano, TX September 2012 to November 2014 Description:  Ericsson is the company that offers services, software and infrastructure in information and communications technology (ICT) for telecommunications operators, traditional telecommunications and Internet Protocol (IP) networking equipment. The project was to maintain the software that automates the life cycle of hundreds of thousands of servers and network devices for Ericsson and its customers.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the Business Requirement Documents and created the technical specification documents.    • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system.    • Developed dynamic web pages to view the reports generated using Django Framework.    • Developed entire backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.    • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.    • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services.    • Used Jenkins to deploy your Django application and run unit tests. Links https://github.com/dhrushah Additional Information SKILLS & EXPERTISE    Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows and Mac.  Web technologies: JSON, XML, HTML, CSS  Web Frameworks & Technologies: Django, REST  Languages: Python, J2EE, SQL, Shell Scripting, UML, JSP.    Database: SQLite3, MYSQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, MongoDB, Jenkins.  Application Servers: Apache Tomcat servers, Coherence server.  Modeling Tools: MVC, Flask, Struts  Software Tools: Microsoft Visual Studio, MS Visio, IBM Big Fix, Perforce, Code Collaborator, Matlab.  GitHub: https://github.com/dhrushah