PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER Atlanta, GA • Around 6+ Years of Experience as web/application developer software development and design using Python, Django, Java, Webapp2, Angular.js, HTML/CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  • Created a Python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Experienced in Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work. Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture. Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes. Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Working experience in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  Creating Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom FortiGate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once)  Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  Experience in Kubernets, which provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2. Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Have Experience in List Comprehensions and Python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  Experience in using CI tools Hudson, Build Forge, and Jenkins for automated builds. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER SHERWIN-WILLIAMS - Cleveland, OH August 2017 to August 2017 SEPT 2019 ? Responsibilities: - • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django. Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Developed web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask. Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra. Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application. Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations. Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Used Flask framework for application development. Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server. Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Angular. Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis. Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs. Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects and created and maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged virtual environment using Docker. PYTHON DEVELOPER T-MOBILE - Bothell, WA December 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities: - • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework. Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications. Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies. With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking. Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress. Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems. Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day-to-day tasks.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts. Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format. Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap. Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading. Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Tested and debugged the product in controlled and real situations. Deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django. Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology. Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db. Package.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the Application. Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery. Implemented admin sites to manage database information with Flask Admin, MySQL and SQLite.  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions. Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup. PYTHON DEVELOPER APPLIED MICRO - Sunnyvale, CA December 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities: - • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python. Used MYDQL for database access.  • Used Python to extract information from XML files. Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on installing and setting up the channels by using Django. Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage. Involved in gathering and analyzing system requirements.  • Performed joins, group by and other operations in MapReduce using Python.  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project. Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time. Additional Information Languages: - Python 3.5/2.7, Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets    Frameworks: - Django, Pyramid, Flask, Struts, Hibernate, Spring    Databases: - MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, SQL, MongoDB, PL/SQL.    Web Technologies: -AJAX, Django, Angular JS, Node.js, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, HTML, XML, CSS, XSLT, Bootstrap.    Web Services: - SOAP, RESTful    Application/Web servers: - Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere    IDES/Tools: - PyCharm, Sublime Text, Spyder, Emacs, NetBeans, Eclipse, Visual Studio, X-code    Cloud Platforms: - Azure, Amazon web services    Operating Systems: - Linux, Unix, Windows 10, 08, 07, XP, Vista    Python Libraries: - Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, network, urllib2    Version Control Systems: - CVS, SVN, Git, GitHub    SDLC: - Agile methodologies, scrum framework