Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Cardinal Health Fremont, CA • 5+ years of IT experience as a python developer web/application developer in Django.  • Experienced with full software development life - cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Using django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, MongoDB, Jinja, WSGI, Fabric, PostgreSQL, and Redis.  • Experience in full SDLC starting from collecting Business specifications, Analysis, Design and Development, Testing and documenting the entire life cycle using various methodologies. Involved in projects using agile and Extreme Programming methodologies.  • Applied HTML, HTML5, XML, DHTML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, and AJAX to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Testing a program by running it across test cases to ensure Experience in creating unit test cases and mock objects to ensure validity and effectiveness of code.  • Experience in writing/editing web content, technical and user documentation, business process analysis, process flowcharting and documentation.  • Expertise using and deploying enterprise applications in Tomcat.  • Thorough understanding of Database Application Designs and Implementation using Oracle, MySQL and SQL Server. Good understanding of PL/SQL Normalizing and De-Normalizing Databases for performance.  • Experience using no SQL database MongoDB.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, AWS, Jinja, WSGI, PostgreSQL, Redis, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, and XML.  • Experience in AWS like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS.  • Well versed in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Familiar with JSON based REST, SOAP, and Amazon Web Services.  • Experience in Agile scrum development techniques, sprint releases and TDD.  • Experience in Python OpenSatck API'S Work Experience Python developer Cardinal Health January 2018 to Present • Design and develop modular tool and micro-services which trigger different workflow which mine data from database.  • The application will interact numbers of server to get workflow and star mining job.  • The application also look for data mining workflow and services health check and integrate HQL and SQL queries in it.  • If anything has been change in any workflow or any database queries it will detect and start a new job and make a log for it.  • This tool dumps all mine data in in Oracle from various databases like Hadoop, SAP BW, and it will integrated with Oozie workflow.  • For version control I have use Gitlab.  • Maintain all job report and heath of the job. Time by time generate email to all upper management team and associated project developer regarding job status.  • Design and develop modular tool and micro-services which trigger different workflow which mine data from database.  • The application will interact numbers of server to get workflow and star mining job.  • The application also look for data mining workflow and services health check and integrate HQL and SQL queries in it.  • If anything has been change in any workflow or any database queries it will detects and start a new job and make a log for it.  Python Developer at McKesson  - OH  Jun 2016 - Dec 2017  • Part of the development team which is assigned to develop payment transaction and maintain financial reports for the department.  • Write models in django RESTful API environment to interact with RDBMS and no-SQL DB.  • Write ORMs query for search database from different DB and for generate different reports.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal finance team.  • Using the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Write unit test cases with individually and in suits using py unit.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Host all codes in Github repositories.  • This tool dump all mine data in in Oracle from various databases like Hadoop, SAP BW, and it will integrated with Oozie workflow.  • For version control I have use Gitlab.  • Maintain all job report and heath of the job. Time by time generate email to all upper management team and associated project developer regarding job status.  • Working on cloud service, design, develop cluster on AWS service like EC2, elasticache, etc.  • Build manage and test this framework that deals with automated provisioning and configuring instances in AWS(Amazon Web Services) Python developer at India Money Guru April 2014 to December 2016 • Developed an application for HR department in Django environment.  • Involved development of application's views, models.  • Developed various kinds of reports with using ORMs to import data from DB.  • Created tool to generate excel file from reports.  • Involved in test driven development and load testing.  • Checked and validate finished application for testing team.  • Troubleshoot developed projects identify errors and develops solutions.  • Maintained ongoing projects.  • Worked on AWS using EC2 instances, setting security groups (ports, source) handling events between python scripts and Linux server.  • Designed templates and forms using html, css.  • Maintained version control using git.  • Created bean docker gem for easy creation of additional docker containers on Elastic Beanstalk instances for testing and diagnostics.  • Experience with AWS SDK gem, including utilities that initialize local application environments mirroring Beanstalk environments.  • Created Automated Test Scripts in Python for Reports and Data extraction jobs.  • Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization/debug at the deployment site  • Rewrite existing Python/C++/ Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  .NET Developer at DALAL Stocks  - India  Jan 2013 - May 2014  • Assigned to develop interactive websites with using C#.  • Responsible for backend development in environment of Visual studio 2005/2008, designed and developed database in MS SQL 2005/2008.  • Worked in a team, Involved in developing the backend with C#, design database and create database schema for web application that matches requirements of the company.  • Excellent Coordination in project activities and ensured that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Integrated different web-services like SMS in admin website to create bulk messages for website users.  • Wrote application views which triggered by URLs and open respected templates  • Developed different REST APIs in Jinja and flask framework with using python scripting.  • Developed Python ORMs fetched data from DB.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Followed MVC Structure to develop Application.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Chrome) on both Windows.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django framework for application development. Education MBA Concordia University Skills VISUAL STUDIO (2 years), DJANGO (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), SQL (3 years), EC2 (3 years) Links http://vamsikrisnak@gmail.com Additional Information Key Skills  Languages Python 3.0/2.7/2.4, C++, C and PHP  Python Framework Django 1.8.x/1.7.x  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle  Web Technologies AWS (Amazon Web Services) EC2, S3 (Simple Storage Service), AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JSON  Versioning Tools Git, Mercurial, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Applications/Webservers Apache, IIS  Operating systems Linux/Unix, MAC OS, FreeBSD, Ubuntu, Windows  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins  Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  Reporting Tools SSRS, Tableau, MS-Word, and MS-PowerPoint  Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS  Python Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pyside, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, pdb    Application Tools Net Beans, Eclipse (SE, EE, Android), Visual Studio, MySQL