Sr Python Developer Sr <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Python Developer - Bank Of America Experienced python web application developer with over 4+ years of experience. Extensive knowledge in designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining web applications. Results driven to achieve increased efficiency, reduced costs, and improved client relations and excellent self-starter skills with strong personal ownership of developing based activities and attention to details.    • Over 4+ years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python 2.7, Python 3.6, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework. Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web Services.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Well aware of SDLC, Waterfall, Test-driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum Methodologies.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, and Oracle.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modelling Language (UML).  • Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Java Script and JQuery.  • Used Python, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in MVC framework Django  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large database using Oracle Relational data Architecture.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum), involved in daily stand-up meetings.  • Good idea on bug testing tools like JIRA and ALM  • Experience with Atom Editor and Komodo IDE.  • Hands on experience deploying projects in production and staging environment.  • Good knowledge on Jenkins, a Continuous Integration tool.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually. Work Experience Sr Python Developer Bank Of America - Edison, NJ August 2016 to Present Bank of America is one of the world's largest financial institutions, serving individuals, small- and middle-market businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. The company serves approximately 56 million U.S. consumer and small business relationships. It is among the world's leading wealth management companies and is a global leader in corporate and investment banking and trading.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with offshore teams and internal clients to Design and analyze the requirements of in-house applications.  • Technical experience with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Django.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Gathered all requirements for developing and analyzing requirement of projects.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Performed defect analysis and Interaction with Business Users during UAT/SIT.  • Experience in designing Use Cases, Class diagrams, Sequence and Collaboration diagrams for multi-tiered object-oriented system architectures utilizing Unified Modelling Tools  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Deployed the application on cloud using Digital Ocean.  • Used Git to upload and retrieve project history.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Used RESTful API for information extraction.  • Used Python libraries like Pandas, NumPy for creating and manipulating the data.  • Used Komodo IDE for scripting.  • Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs.  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  • Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization/debug at the deployment site.  • Mentored junior and mid-level engineers.  Environment: Python 3.6, Django, MySQL, XML, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, Git, GitHub. Jr. Developer DaVita Inc - Brentwood, TN June 2014 to June 2016 DaVita provides a complete range of dialysis treatments and support services for patients living with chronic kidney failure. Formulary Exception application provides the workflow for a facility user to raise and track the request for medication when a provider prescribes a medication that is not on the pre-approved list of supplies.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML and JavaScript  • Created Business Logic using Python  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Git for the version control.  • Used Atom Editor for scripting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Participate in Sprint Retrospective calls to discuss pros and cons in current sprint and identify areas of improvement from next sprint.  • Customized RESTful Web Service using Spring RESTful API, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  • Actively updated the upper management with daily updates on the progress of a project that include the classification levels that were achieved on the data.  • Involved in designing use-case diagrams, class diagrams, interaction using UML model.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Git Software Developer Foursoft - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2013 to April 2014 Foursoft IT Solutions professionals have a great deal of experience working with companies in many markets to get fast results using many of the technologies. Worked on client feedback page which can be accessed by all the clients and provide their valuable feedback and complaints.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Designing, developing and testing of the website  • Worked on frontend and backend modules using Python.  • Handled server side validation using JavaScript.  • Developed data management system using MySQL.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and baddata patterns and fixing them.  • Rewrite existing Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Created Test Plan test cases and automated some of the test scripts through selenium in python.  • Used GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Attending various calls with Business Analysts and Development team during Requirements Analysis  • Performed Automated Unit and system integration testing.  • Trained users and did production support.  Environment: Python, Selenium, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Django, Git, Oracle Education Management Information Systems Fairleigh Dickinson University Skills CSS (4 years), DJANGO (4 years), Git (4 years), HTML (4 years), PYTHON (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Python, Java, VB script, c  Frameworks Django, Bootstrap  Databases MS SQL, Oracle  IDE's PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans  Deployment Tools Heroku, digital ocean  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery  Version Controls Github, GIT, Jenkins  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Mac, iOS, Android  Software Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Testing Unit testing and Integration testing