Django Developer Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Django Developer - Work Exprience Boston, MA ? 4.5 years of experience on Web/Application development coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  ? Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Good experience in Python, Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework.  ? Experienced in openstack Web Services development with Python programming language.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Angular JS, C++, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  ? Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS.  ? Good knowledge of Open stack, SQL, Postgre sql.  ? Good experience in Python, Django.  ? Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  ? Experienced in interacting with the clients during Design, Development and Product Implementation phases so as to make sure that the application is as per the requirement.  ? Excellent interpersonal, communication skills and documentation skills.  ? Good knowledge of .NET framework features including Namespace, Inheritance, and Delegates.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS 5, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Expertize in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL, multithreading, data structures, and design patterns.  ? Hands-on experience in trading system, high-frequency trading system and quantitative trading.  ? Expertise in C/C++, STL, Boost, object-oriented programming (OOP), multithread programming, large scale soft-ware design and design patterns.  ? An experienced engineer with many years of experience in C, C++, C#, Java, Perl, Python, PHP, Matlab/Octave.  ? Web development with Python and Django, SQL, Python, ETL, Bash/Linux, Asynchronous task queues with Celery and RabbitMQ.  ? Hands on experience with MS SQL server reporting service, replication services, backup/restore, maintenance plan, and data transformation services.  ? Experience in using Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, SVN for Version Controlling.  ? Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers, and User Defined Functions.  ? Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.    TOOLS AND SYSTEM:  Django, PostgreSQL, Apache web server 2.4.10, Subversion, Git, SSHD, VI, Wordpress, Joomla, MySQL, Microsoft Office, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Flex 4,, NFS, Postfix, Samba, SSL, Plesk, Firebug, AJAX, Unattended, Nagios, Visual Studio, VMWare, Gnuplot, JSON, LDAP, OpenID, Twisted, AWS CloudFormation, Angular.JS, Github, docker, Celery Work Experience Django Developer Work Exprience - New York, NY April 2014 to Present I was involved for the development web services applications and web application using .Net framework, Django and My SQL server. I was also involved in data migration, data transformations from legacy systems to the new application.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing and implementation of complete framework.  • Designed the database schema, tables, and relationship.  • Build all database mapping classes using Python models.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python, MSQL.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Design user forms using wxPython forms.  • Used JQuery for all client side javascript manipulation  • Creating design according to requirement.  • Used JQuery for all client side javascript manipulation  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html pages layout  • Created the user manual as well as project fact sheet.  • Worked extensively on Multithreading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Used HTML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Worked wResponsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running ith the design team for project structure.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users python Developer Jefferies Group - Jersey City, NJ January 2012 to January 2014 I was usually develop back-end components, connect the application with the other third-party web services, and support the front-end developers by integrating their work with the python application and Built application interface and web scrapping scripts using OO designing, UML modeling and dynamic data structures.    Responsibilities:  ? To design, develop and deploy Web Service.  ? Developed new web methods to handle media asset creation, and tape conversions workflows.  ? Change existing web methods to pass more data and enhance fulfillment workflows.  ? Design new forms using SQL, HTML, and CSS.  ? Working with business to get requirements and further enhancements.  ? Creating design according to requirement.  ? Develop code using C# .net and MS SQL 2008.  ? Implement a multi tier design relational business object mapping.  ? SQL queries to add stored procedures, tables, indexes, constraints, reports to existing database.  ? Developed a data access layer and business object layer to interact with the web service layer.  ? Developed new methods to implement messaging guarantee delivery for web service using custom queuing application and Oracle AQs.  ? Graphical representation of reports generated.  ? Configuring and Deploying code to production.  ? Testing and fixing bugs and enhancing according to business needs. Web Developer LearnWithHomer.com - New York, NY March 2011 to December 2011 I was hired for Learnwithhomer.com as a full stack Python, Django, web developer. In just few months I was  able to help the company streamline many Python modules for the CMS system. I was also involved in the consumer website product launch, which wasa port from iPad application to a fully web  application. During my work with homer I did many tasks from writing many HTML, Javascript pages, to developing server side utilities using Python and third party libraries. By the end of the project Homer Launched the web product which was an excellent tool for young kids to start learning using some of the most innovative methods and tools available through their website.    Responsibilities:  ?Wrote a function to manage sub-sessions within a user session. So one parent can have multiple children and the application will allow one session per child, however if a child want to open multiple browser session, the application will detect that, and give the child the option to continue with the current session and close the other one's or use a different child profile.  ? Build all database mapping classes using Django models  ? Wrote all application functions and business logic using Django views  ? Wrote the html front end pages using Django templates  ? Developed a Python utility to unzip manuscript zip files from Amazon S3 buckets into the temp directory, then copy the unzipped assets back to Amazon S3 using python libraries and Amazon AWS S3 CLI and Boto  ? Used JQuery for all client side javascript manipulation  ? Exprience in OpenStack API bindings  ? Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html pages layout  ? Used Selenium to build test scripts and run test automation  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters also Designed the database schema, tables, and relationship. Additional Information Computer Skills:  XHTML, PHP, Python, Bash, ASP, ASP.NET 3.5, C, C++, C#, SQL, Javascript, Perl, Matlab, CSS, XML, VB.NET  Platforms:  Windows (98, 2000, XP, Server 2000, Server 2003, Server 2008), Debian Linux, Ubuntu Linux, Redhat Enterprise Linux, CentOS, FreeBSD, Solaris, Windows Mobile, TinyOS, Android, OS X, Webserver, WCF, PostgreSQL