Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Boston, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer NIKE - Portland, OR January 2015 to Present Skills Python, Django 1.3/1.4/1.6/1.8 and 1.9,Flask, PHP and Java (1 year), HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Angular JS and BOOTSTRAP (2 years), MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Cassandra and MongoDB (2 years), Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Urllib2, Pandas, CSV and python-twitter (1 year) Additional Information Professional Summary:  • Over 7 Years of experience in Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming usingPython, Django and Java/J2EE.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object orientedprogramming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOPs) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPs, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and its usage in Python and Java.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Beautiful Soup, Urllib2, Pandas and CSV.  • Experience with design, code and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizingPython.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, CSSand Bootstrap.  • Involved in developing web application using Java with Spring and Hibernate ORM frameworks.  • Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper andRAD.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL, Oracle andPostgreSQL database.  • Experience configuring and developing with different Database servers including MySQL, MSSQL, Oracleand Mongo Db.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with theability to work independently.    TechnicalSkills:   • FRONT END: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Angular JS and BOOTSTRAP  • BACK END: Python, Django 1.3/1.4/1.6/1.8 and 1.9,Flask, PHP and Java  • DATABASES: MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Cassandra and MongoDB  • WEBSERVICES: Django-Rest framework, REST, AWS  • SERVERS: Apache Tomcat and Nginx  • ENVIRONMENT: UNIX, LINUX and WINDOWS  • VERSION CONTROL: Git and SVN  • PYTHON LIBRARIES: Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Urllib2, Pandas, CSV and python-twitter    Professional Experience:    Nike,Portland,OR Jan 2015– Present  Sr. Python Developer    Responsibilities:  • Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development and implementationand testing.  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view controlarchitecture.  • Implemented Business logic, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation usingPython and Django  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and used Django'sview controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • Designed and Developed DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export andConversions.  • Created a Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Created a database usingMYSQL and wrote various queries for the extraction of data from the database.  • Collaborated with team of QA to build and populate DB and to ensure the standards.  • UsedAJAX in UI in order to avoid the reloading of the entire web page to update small portions.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Developed an application in Linux environment and dealt with all of its commands.  • Tuned the code Performance and consistency being the main factors of consideration.  • Worked actively as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in thestipulated time.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Git, Linux, Eclipse.    AT&T Bothell,WA Jun 2014 – Dec 2014  Sr. Python Developer     Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed, tested, deployed and maintained the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrote existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Couchbase Python SDK, PyQt, Java, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Linux.    Aetna,Inc,Hatford,CT Oct 2013 – May 2014  Python Developer    Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib.  • Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to createa user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from pythonusing Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, CSS, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux,GIT.    Zensar Technologies,Pune May 2012 – Sep 2013  Python/Java Developer    Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using JAVA.  • Involved in Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and maintenance of the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewritten existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked extensively on Python scripting and development. CSS is used to style Web pages, XHTML andXML markup.  • Implemented Servlets to handle HTTP requests for on-line requests, credit card payments, registration andbug tracking.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using PythonDatabase Connector.  • Developed in Windows and deployed it in Linux server.  • Designed and developed Web services using XML and JQuery.  • Participated actively in unit testing, integration testing and GUI.  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handled the day-to-day issues and fine-tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Responsible for testing, debugging, bug fixing and documentation of the system.  • Developed JUnit test cases, then performed integration and system testing.  • Implemented Python components and deployed under the Web Logic server.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, ApacheWeb Server, UNIX.    HDFC Bank,Hyderabad,India Sep 2009 – Mar 2012  Java Developer    Responsibilities:  • Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose were designed and developed for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Components using Java J2EE were designed and developed.  • UI using HTML CSS and JavaScript's was created.  • To implement Business Logic Servlets and Beans were created.  • For parsing the data to Oracle Database SAX/DOM Parser was used.  • Backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle were designed and created.  • JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures were used to create database access layer.  • Object model, data model, constraints, tables, stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for OracleDatabase were designed.  • User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan was developed and executed.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.    Environment: Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Hibernate, WebSphere, JSP, SOAP, JavaScript, Html, JSF, JBoss, Net beans 6.1, MySQL