Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Sunrun Inc Fremont, CA Work Experience Python Developer Sunrun Inc - San Francisco, CA August 2017 to Present Sunrun is a pioneer of the solar-as-a service model which provides residential rooftop solar, storage and energy services, while reducing the amount of air pollution leading to a better, less expensive and cleaner way for families to power their homes. Our mission is create a planet run by sun.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked with the Business Intelligence team while playing a major role in developing a backend python application Alert Engine to track performance issues of rooftop solar while improving business intelligence, logistics and process customer usage data and dashboards designing.  • Implemented the python application that run daily checks to generate alerts for Inverter failures, Performance alerts, and Environment event leading to system failures any many while collecting datasets from Google Cloud Big Query and store the analysis reports in our monitoring database MySQL db.  • Worked on GCP VM instances and Big Query python for analyzing large datasets, updating datasets on a daily basis using python. Performed cleaning, transforming and reshaping data frames, Increased the speed of data collection process by 80%.  • Played major role in performing migrations from python 2.7 to python 3.6.  • Worked with Big query tables and MySQL dB to perform queries and store the results in Pandas data frames for data analysis. Routed the alerts to raise tickets in Salesforce to provide services to our customers.  • Developed many automation scripts for Web Scraping, pattern matching, Requests, Beautiful Soup, urlllib.  • Also involved in developing frontend Web application using Flask, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Done data migrations to load data from FTP Servers, google drive, and other sources to GCP BQ tables and stored the data in google cloud storage using python. Developed reusable scripts to automate the process.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding errors and bad data patterns and validating the data using python libraries pandas, Numpy, matplotlib.  • Generated various data visualization reports and send to Business users to improve the decision making.  • Participated fully in agile software development process.  Environment: Python 2.7, Python 3.6, Debian GNU/Linux v9, Apache, GCP, Big Query, MySQL dB, Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, REST API's, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Version Control GIT, PyCharm, Sublime. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering California State University May 2017 Bachelors in Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering in Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering GITAM University May 2015 Skills HTML (1 year), JAVASCRIPT (1 year), PYTHON (1 year), FLASK (1 year), SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS & COMPETENCIES    • Strong Expertise in Python, data analysis and Automation, Linux and Database skills.    • Web Development and Framework experience with HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Django, Flask.    • Proved capability to learn any new technology and Experience with full software development life-cycle.    • Proven experience working effectively with employees and customers.    • Excellent communication skills, and good attention to details.