Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Oppenheimer Funds Denver, CO Work Experience Python Developer Oppenheimer Funds - Denver, CO December 2017 to Present Oppenheimer Funds is one of the world's most reputable investment firms.  • Developed test scripts using python and postgreSQL for the data validation.  • Written the python scripts to load the data in to the tables(Data Injection).  • Used Autosys and MoveIT tools to place the file from on premise to AWS-S3 buckets.  • Written the jil scripts to autosys jobs and scheduled jobs on every business day.  • Used celery scheduler to places the file in to tables from AWS-S3.  • Used AWS Athena to query the data on top s3 bucket(files in inbound) which helps the business people for data analysis.  • Written postgreSQL sequels according to the business transformations to place the data in to respective tables. Devops Developer Python - Louisville, CO February 2017 to December 2017 CableLabs is a not-for-profit innovation, research and development labs.  • Actively involved in setting up the production environment in AWS using kubernetes and used mongo-db sharding for the data distribution in to different shards and maintained the  replica's in different AWS regions for data redundancy.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters. Creation,  configuration and monitoring Shards sets.  • Actively involved in setting up the Kubernetes cluster (Kubernetes/KOPS) in AWS in one  region using multiple zones and Used open-swan and strong-swan methods in docker- swarm setting up the AWS EC2 instances in four different regions which are connected  each other.  • Responsible for mongo-db architecture, administration, troubleshooting, performance  tuning, replication DB design and server architecture and Analysis of the data to be shared,  choosing a shard Key to distribute data evenly Familiar with Mongo-DB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures. Software Developer Axis Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to December 2015 Axis bank third largest private sector bank in India offering entire spectrum of financial services for personal & corporate banking.  • Used Django/ Python web-framework to develop application and developed Scripting based  frameworks on python using Linux Platform used by embedded engineers for automating  mundane tasks.  • Used AWS Lambda with Amazon S3 and extensively used Python requests.urllib and urllib2 module to call web services  • worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis also  • worked on real time in memory distributed systems. Education Master of Science in Information in system Technologies Wilmington University August 2017 Bachelors of Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering Jawaharlal nehru university - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 Skills C (Less than 1 year), Hadoop (Less than 1 year), Hive (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT PROJECT (Less than 1 year), mongo-db (Less than 1 year), Python, Django, Flask, Javascript, PHP, Android, ASP, MySQL Additional Information SPECIALIZED SKILLS  Python, SQL, PostgreSQL, TABLEAU, SAP, SPSS, MS Office, MS Project, Hadoop, Hive, Pig, Spark,  MongoDB, Google Analytics, SEO, C, C++, Jupyter Notebook.