Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - Cisco Systems San Jose, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA October 2017 to Present Description: Cisco is the worldwide leader in IT and networking. We help companies of all sizes transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate.  Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Wrote python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format.  • Developed ETL (Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading) scripts to extract the data from multiple source systems that comprise databases like Oracle 12g, SQL Server 7.2, flat files to the Staging area, EDW and then to the Data Marts.  • Developed Tableau visualizations and dashboards using Tableau Desktop.  • Developed Tableau workbooks from multiple data sources using Data Blending  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Built development environment with JIRA, BitBucket.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing  • Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django1.7, C++, JQuery, Tableau, MySQL, Oracle 11.2, Linux, HTML, CSS, AJAX, BITBUCKET, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python Developer PrimaryOne Health - Columbus, OH February 2016 to September 2017 Description: At PrimaryOne Health, it is our mission to serve the Central Ohio community with affordable, easy to access healthcare services. We are a group of highly trained medical professionals committed to promoting the health and well-being of all individuals and families in the Central Ohio community.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  • Involved in presenting demos to the clients and also reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager.  • Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend.  • Deployed the project into Apache using GIT version control system.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.7, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. Software Developer Soft unique Info Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2011 to May 2012 Description: SalesLogix is the platform of choice for companies strategically focused on customer engagements. Robust functionality, deep integration, and high flexibility in how the companies use and deploy their solution result in a solution that works the way they need it to. SalesLogix provides Rich customer profiles and sales productivity tools which help users identify opportunities and streamline sales activities. Simultaneously, sales management tools, analytics, and proactive alerts drive accurate forecasting as well as effective team and territory management.  Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.    Environment: Python 2.x, Django 1.3, Java Script, HTML, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, SOAP Web Services, Beautiful Soup, SVN, Linux. Education Master's in Information Systems Central Michigan University August 2015 to December 2016 Master's in Business Administration Gitam University - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh June 2012 to May 2014 Bachelors in Computer Science and Technology Andhra University - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh June 2007 to May 2011 Skills AJAX (2 years), DEPLOYMENT (2 years), DJANGO (2 years), HTML (2 years), jQuery (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages Python, C, C++, .NET.  Markup Languages HTML, JSON, XML.  Scripting JQuery, Java Script, AJAX  Frameworks Django, Flask, Angular JS.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, RESTful.  Build Tools Jenkin, Ant, Maven.  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN.  Programming Methodologies Agile, Waterfall.    Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu).  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB.  Deployment Tools Amazon EC2, Heroku.  IDE Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, PyStudio.  Servers Apache, HTTP Server, WebLogic.  Bug Reporting Tools JIRA and Bugzilla  MS Office Tools MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel, MS Access