Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Tech Mahindra I am a driven professional with broad technical skill set and involved in web development using the interpreter programming languages. Excellent communicator experienced in interpreting and implementing business concepts into IT solutions. Known for ability to multi-task, learn fast and juggle multiple pressing projects simultaneously, meeting all deadlines. Thrives through new challenges and constantly updates myself on new technologies and trends.    Having over 3.4 years of experience is mostly working on PYTHON, DJANGO, HTML, CSS and Databases like Oracle. I also participate in every step of web development life cycle process to make user experience better. Work Experience Developer Tech Mahindra December 2017 to Present Description:  Auto Knowledge is a website giving information about the auto world. The project mainly deals information about new cars and Test drives. It rates cars on its performance. It also gives information about the happenings. Users could post information about the vehicles they wanted sell. The project was also provided with a control panel to the admin of the system, through which the admin can monitor the system  Responsibilities:    • Understanding the project requirements and developing/Enhancing the code based on the client requirements using Python, Django,  • Involved in creating modules and models using Python required for the project  • Involved Developed Object Relation Mapping codes using Django framework  • Involved in accessing data from database as demanded for a task  • Involved in creating page templates requirements for the project  • Involved in writing client validations using JavaScript  • Coordinating with the team to meet the client requirement    PROJECT: 2    Project Name: Tote Prediction Coral U.K  Tools: Django, Python, HTML, Oracle  Team size: 7 Software Engineer Tech Mahindra - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN 2015 to Present to till data in Bangalore (In the payrole of Matrixminds Software Solutions Pvt Ltd ).    TOOLS  • Programming Languages: Python, Core Java  • Frontend Technologies: Html, Css, Java Script  • Web frameworks: Django  • Database systems: Oracle  • Tools: Pycharm, Sublime  • Operating Systems: Linux, Windows.    PROJECT DETAILS  PROJECT: 1    Project Name: AUTO KNOWLEDGE INFO WEB (OMEGA)  Tools: Django, Python, HTML, MySQL  Team size: 8 Python/Django Developer Tech Mahindra January 2017 to November 2017 Description:  Tote Prediction gives predictable information to CORAL Users on Horse Racing It will get the details from third party API (Telegraph UK) and do analysis on data and store the data into database it will retrieve the data from database and display it in the UI based on CORAL Users Requirement.  Responsibilities:    • Making changes in the existing code  • Designed and maintained databases using Python  • Support application projects and create new applications  • Handle UI and server-side programming.    PROJECT: 3    Project Name: Lytesaber  Environment: Django1.8, Python 2.7  Team size: 9 Developer Tech Mahindra September 2015 to November 2016 Description:  Lytesaber is a web based application and based on Higher education domain.  Through this application we can able to parse the faculty information's correctly.  Roles & Responsibilities:    • Understanding the requirements and developing the code using Python and Django.  • Contributed in developing business logic at backend  • Involved in developing web applications for client specification  • Performing code optimizations  • I was involved in restfull web services.  • Developed Tool in Django to execute test cases and assign issue Education Bachelor in COMPUTER SCIENCE Degree College Additional Information SKILLS    • Experience in web development using Python and Django Framework.  • Experience in developing User Interface using HTML, CSS.  • Experience in Relational Database programming.  • Familiarity with agile development methodology.  • Good Knowledge on Object Oriented Programming and web services.  • Have excellent analytical, problem solving, and interpersonal communication skills.  • Ability to learn and adapt to new technologies.  • Having Strong Knowledge on Multithreading concepts.