Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Vanguard Wayne, PA Python Developer:    • Around 5 years of IT work experience as a Python Developer and have handful of experience in coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, and R.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Experienced in Software development life cycle and architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing, and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts & PowerShell.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  • Experienced in R programming, mainly with statistical inference, hands on experience with Sampling technique, Estimation, Hypothesis testing, Time series, Correlation, and Regression analysis (linear Regression, Logistic Regression, ecision trees and forecasting)  • Experience in datawarehousing, data mapping, extraction, transformation, and validation from heterogeneous sources in R.  • Experience with R packages and familiar with clustering analysis, parallel processing in R  • Good written and verbal communications skills and Excellent Team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Vanguard - Wayne, PA October 2016 to Present Responsibilities:    • Used Django Framework for developing web applications using model view control architecture.  • Used Multi-Threading factory model to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB and VMWare API calls.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgresql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Test and validated the custom scripts.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models.  • Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors).  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  • Troubleshooting the issues related to all domain reported by L2 team on daily basis.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • As point on the L2 support team worked with application, database, reporting, SQM and project managements team to resolve  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL alchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Jira. Python developer Vanguard - Dublin, OH November 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file. Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django frameworks.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users. Designed web pages using HTML.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API Framework using Django. Rewritten existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Created database tables using MySQL to store user data including login credentials and contact information.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database. Interlinked different web pages and database tables using Python and Flask micro framework.  • Used PyCharm for programming using Python.  • Used Git/GitHub for tracking changes in various files and coordinating work on those files among multiple people in the project team.  Environment: Python, Flask, HTML, Django, MS SQL Server, MySQL, PyCharm, Kafka  Git, GitHub    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe, Dreamweaver, Apache web server. R analytics Business Intelligence & Data Integration Unit Johnson & Johnson - Skillman, NJ February 2016 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Insurance policy center- Auto, Property and Claims data using Rand Business Objects  • Participated in requirement analysis by gathering client requirements, business needs and project objectives, via feedback sessions and client meetings, in collaboration with all stakeholders  • Worked on validating the data accuracy, completeness of the data in Operational data storage  • Worked on Adhoc BI reporting and statistical modeling & analysis requests on underwriting issues like measuring the time to resolve an issue, root cause analysis (regression analysis) for cancellation due to under writing issue using R and python  • Worked on text mining solution to find claims assigned to field claim handlers that could be worked in the office  • Developed different statistics forthe analysis andreduction ofpolicyQuoteprocessingtime using R    Environment: R, Oracle, Teradata, DB2, STATISTICA, Windows 7 andLinux Jr Python developer Mouritech - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:    • Performed design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in python  Worked on tuples, dictionaries, object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making algorithms  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL  • Worked on UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Used Git for version control  • Monitored and troubleshot web applications  • Performed data analysis, manipulation and reporting using pivot tables and advanced functions in MS excel  Environment: python 2.7, PyQT, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, SQLAlchemy, etc. Education Master's Skills CSS (4 years), MYSQL (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), SQL (4 years), HTML (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C, Python, SQL, JAVA script  Databases SQL Server 2014, 2012, Oracle 9i/8.x, 10g, DB2 MS Access, Teradata, MYSQL, PLSQL  Other Software MS Office- 2007/2003/2000, Adobe Professional, SharePoint    Operating Systems Linux, Windows /98/2000/2003/XP/Vista/8, Unix  Data Science Tools R Language, STASTISTICA, Big Data, python  Web Technologies HTML, CSS,