Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer New York, NY Python Developer looking for new opportunity Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Confidential Media Firm - New York, NY July 2013 to Present You can reach me at quinn.j.henderson AT gmail dot com    • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.   • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.   • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.   • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.   • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.   • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.   • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.   • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.   • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.   • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.   • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for webscrapping to extract data for building graphs.   • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.   • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.   • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.   • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout. Information and Automation Developer Intern IBM - Armonk, NY May 2012 to August 2012 • Automate test cases, code test suites, code extensions to custom automation framework and code utility   applications using Java   • help with migration and creation of wiki content from old technology to new.   • design and develop elements for user interface (UI), web, multimedia delivery, print, and other linear and non-linear   information deliverables. Education BS in Computer Science University of Wisconsin-Madison - Madison, WI 2009 to 2013 Skills Python, HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Django, MySQL