Python Engineer <span class="hl">Python</span> Engineer Python Engineer - Cox Automotive Metuchen, NJ Work Experience Python Engineer Cox Automotive - New Hyde Park, NY April 2018 to Present Description: Dealertrack is the leading provider of on-demand dealership F&I software for the auto industry  Digital Contracting is used by dealers to facilitate a fast, paperless, contract between a customer and automotive  lender.  Responsibilities:  ? Lead team of engineers and QA testers to triage, investigate and remediate critical defects in UAT and PROD environment, turning around solutions with rapid SLA's.  ? Developed new functionality keeping in mind OOP Principles, performance, scalability and robustness.  ? Developed automated integration test scripts using Selenium for Python.  ? Created and consumed REST API's with the Django REST Framework and Flask  Intern Experience: Full Stack Developer RIT - Tiger Center - Rochester, NY January 2014 to May 2016 Description: Tiger Center is used by students to search for classes, add them to a shopping cart and enroll. The  application displays the user's class schedule with daily, weekly or monthly views, and offered advanced filtering  options to select a class based on the day, time instructor, term, etc.  Responsibilities:  ? Implemented an enrollment system, where students can search for new classes, add the class to the shopping cart and enroll for the term, using Django sessions and SQLAlchemy transactions  ? Responsible for creation of Django REST service with Microsoft SQL database.  ? Used Karma, Jasmine and ngMock to create tests for unit testing. Django Developer Momentum Solar - Metuchen, NJ August 2012 to August 2013 Momentum Go is a web-based customer relationship management (CRM) system and a reporting system, which allowed senior level managers and sales representatives to create and monitor individual customer cases, assign  site surveyors, schedule follow-ups, store case specific details and contact information, as well as generate  analytic and geographic reports.  Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for creating Django forms to collect data from the user.  ? Implemented Django authentication to verify users and secure sensitive information. Education Bachelor of Science in Game Design and Development in Game Design and Development Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY August 2013 to May 2017 Skills MySQL, Git, HTML 5, Python (3 years) Links http://GitHub.com/ToothlessHawkins