Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - APPLE San Francisco, CA Work Experience Python Developer APPLE - San Francisco Bay Area, CA June 2018 to Present Developed front-end and back-end of the application using python on Django web framework.  • Worked on AML - ACM - Athena Case Management with Route to Market.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Built Django Application to organized automation via web.  • Prepared and implemented Apple connect authentication API.  • Setup on Apple Orchard environment with shell scripts.  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages for moving the data from staging area to data mart.  • Automating data movements using python scripts, involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  • Configuration and deployment on Mac-OS X and Linux environments  • Involved in the all life-cycle design and development.  • Implemented design pattern methodologies such as Model View Control design utilizing Django Framework.  • Hands-on experience on Kubernetes as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages changes.  • Used Python Unit test framework for developing and implementing the unit tests using test driven approach.  • Used several python libraries like NumPy, Logging, Pandas, Cluster.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services and worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views using Python, to assemble an intelligent online arrangement.  • Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA.  • Contributing to the refinement and ramp-up of the DDA technology and (Big) Data analytics stack.  • Worked with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Designed and created information administration framework utilizing MySQL.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views using Python, to manufacture an intuitive electronic arrangement.  • Used Django framework to develop the application and used Python modules such as requests and urlib2 for web crawling.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed the ETL mappings in PL/SQL via packages, procedures, functions, views and triggers.  • Used Python based GUI segments for the front-end usefulness, for example, choice criteria, created test outfit to empower exhaustive testing using Python.  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, Cloud Formation.  • stored the data in the form of JSON structure-based documents, stored in a collection using MongoDB. Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Oversaw validation related functions for integrations of merchant systems which requires working closely with both merchants and internal testers  • Wrote Python code which focused on creating test accounts in addition to facilitating support testing of new releases of merchant interface.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Implemented regression analysis using SciPy & Scikit-learn with existing user data to predict maximum utilization for various time periods.  • Utilized a combination of regular expression and jQuery Validation Plugin to conduct input check.  • Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status. Used Spring DAO Module along with Struts Framework to deal with Database.  • Provide coordinate data for pipeline tie-in locations at facilities  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Working on DevOps platform and have gained experience in specialized areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service etc.  • Environment:  • Python 2.7, Django, Java Script, jQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Linux, Sub Version, Beautiful Soup, NumPy, AJAX. Python Developer/Django PayPal - San Jose, CA September 2017 to May 2018 • Developed front-end and back-end of the application using python 3 on Django web framework.  • Analyzed customers' data usage based on time zones and time periods with python and SQL scripts; to improve performance of the signal coverage and network speed.  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used python library Beautiful Soup for Web scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on webpages using the data from MongoDB.  • For the large data management used TFS and delivered reliable end-product.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Oversaw validation related functions for integrations of merchant systems which requires working closely with both merchants and internal testers.  • Wrote Python code which focused on creating test accounts in addition to facilitating support testing of new releases of merchant interface.  • Automating data movements using python scripts, involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  • Used several python libraries like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas.  • Performed Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, WebStorm, IntelliJ and Visual Studio.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Called the RESTFUL web services to get the JSON object (response) and manipulated the JSON object to display the response in the webpage.  • Involved in redesigning the process, Analysis, coding, testing and implementing.  • Extensively worked on developing UI components using Angular JS and JSON to interact Restful web services.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis, flexible reshaping and pivoting of data sets.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux. Created Several XML Schemas and Developed Stored PL/SQL Procedures and Packages to automatically create and drop table indexes.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing  • Worked in MySQL database on queries and writing stored procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Managed Ubuntu Linux and windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 using open-source chef server.  • Migrated the applications from internal data center to AWS.  • Skilled in using collections in python for manipulating and looping through different user defined object.  • Delivering deliverables on time by working on agile and waterfall methodologies.  • Used Django for framework for accessing various consumer data from various sources.  • Installed and configuring 802.11ac routers, and also Wrote AP Configurators for 802.11ac routers using Python with Selenium Library  • Environment:  • Python-2.7, MySQL, Python Scripts, Oracle, JavaScript, MongoDB, AWS EC2, Django, NumPy, GIT HUB. Web Application Developer - Python-Django/PHP-LAMP ORITHEALTH - New Delhi, Delhi July 2012 to January 2015 This website contains thousands of health-related contents. This website is designed as an automated system. It fetches the data from database and display in HTML form for the user.  This website uses self-prepared tools like --- Work assignment tool, Automatic Hyperlinking tool, Article formatting tool, Article review tool etc.    • Implement scalable, high-performance Scala services on the AWS platform.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Involved in development of Front-end Using Angular2.0, JavaScript, HTML5 and Back-end using Enterprise Java Beans.  • Wrote modular, secure, and well-tested front-end code in JS, HTML, and CSS using latest web application frameworks  • Analyze, develop, test, code, implement and maintain software and computer systems to meet business and project requirements  • Responsible for creating the JavaScript code, for different modules.  • Extensive back-end API testing using POST-MAN.  • Documented software defects using bug tracking tool JIRA  • Automated front-end web pages using Selenium, Robot Framework.  • Used HP-ALM for writing and tracking test cases.  Refactored a Templating application designed to construct data input sub-modules in HTML.  • Developed Front-End web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap4.  • Working on browsers compatibility issues.  • Supported for the defects on time-based priority in DEV/QA/ UAT and PROD environments.  • Writing service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS.  • Environment:  • Angular 2.0, Bootstrap3, SQL, PL-SQL, Robot Framework, Selenium, POST-MAN, JIRA, SOAP UI, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap4 Angular, GIT, SQL Server, Restful Web services.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Used Python scripts for automation of production tasks  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development  • Wrote REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document  • Environment: Python, Linux, Shell Scripting, JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, jQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server.XML, XSL, HTML, JavaScript, JBOSS, Oracle 10g, Windows, web services. Education Bachelor's in computer science north western polytechnic university - San Francisco, CA June 2018 to Present Bachelor's Skills C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, DOCKER, DTD, Git, MYSQL (5 years), PHP, Javascript, Jquery, CSS (6 years), Python (8 years), jquery (6 years), Angular JS (6 years), Mongo DB (5 years), Restful API (6 years), Soap (6 years) Additional Information SKILLS    • HTML5/4  • CSS3  • XML  • Angular.js 1.0/1.5/2.0/4.0  • Node.js  • Ext.js  • Backbone.js  • Bootstrap  • React  • Redo  • Oracle  • JBoss  • JDBC  • JSF  • servlet  • DHTML  • Net beans  • Eclipse  • PL/SQL  • Scala  • PHP  • C++,  • JavaScript  • J query  • JSP servlets  • JSTL  • Struts  • JDBC  • JSF  • EJB  • RMI  • JTA  • WSDL  • JMS  • JCA  • CVS  • SVN  • GIT  • GitHub  • Design Patterns  • Struts  • Hibernate  • Spring  • spring boot  • Spring security  • spring cloud  • Jenkins  • Maven  • Chef  • puppet  • XML  • XSD  • XSLT  • DTD  • DOM  • SAXparser  • XQuery Jboss  • Websphere  • JBuilder  • Ant  • Junit  • Log4j  • Selenium  • Bugzilla  • JIRA  • MongoDB  • Cassandra  • MySQL  • Sun Solaris  • Red Hat LINUX  • AWS  • EC2S3  • Lambda  • Cloud Watch  • EBS system  • Hadoop Environment  • HIVE  • PIG  • OOZIE  • SPARK  • MapReduce  • Sqoop  • Docker  • REST  • SOAP  • DOJO  • JSON  • Shell scripting  • Dreamweaver  • Apache Tomcat