Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Austin, TX • 4 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Bug Fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various stand alone client server enterprise applications.    • Experience with Web Development, Web Services and the Django Framework.    • Having Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment along with data analytics and excel data extracts.    • Developed RESTful web-based applications using Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, Apache, Tomcat, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, Ajax, HTML, Eclipse IDE    • Proficient in Software Design and Development with a solid background in Developing applications in Linux and windows environment    • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, Jquery, json and Javascript.    • Hands on experience with SVN, Git, JIRA.    • Good Knowledge of web services with protocol SOAP, REST    • Good Knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, WebLogic    • Experienced in various types of testing such as unit testing, Integration Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Functional Testing    • Experienced in writing SQL queries, Stored procedures, NoSQL Databses, function, packages, table, views and triggers    • Can Handle writing technical and functional documents defined by the business requirements.    • Good experience in documentation of various stages od SDLC(Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle(STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment Work Experience Python Developer Tarams Software Technologies - Bangalore, Karnataka December 2012 to February 2014 Project: Worked on license provisioning for client product. Licenses were provisioned to the customer according to the subscription. Developed a portal which fetches all the reports of subscription and customer data.  Responsibility  ? Provided client with portal which has reports with client information and licenses provisioned  ? Worked with the marketing team to know their needs and provided them with the solutions.  ? Worked in the front end for designing of several pages like login, registration, portal and admin pages etc.  ? Worked with Jira tickets and handled the site maintenance issues.  ? Created unit test cases and selenium test cases to the code written which helped in writing quality code and reduced QA time drastically.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution  ? Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA  ? Used Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, Apache, Tomcat, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, PERL, Ajax, NoSQL, HTML to develop RESTful webservices  ? Worked on in house project to create dupe of 'Stackoverflow' as part of training. The project incorporates several key ideas from this website but focused on smaller groups like online discussion forum.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for developing web application.  ? Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  ? Have handled debugging of code for the maintenance issues and errors identified.    ? Worked on the complete software development life cycle of in house project (from front end to back end) and was very much appreciated by mentor and colleagues. Software Engineer Peopledock - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh January 2012 to December 2012 Project: Developed a media reporting tool using python to record customer's impression over advertisement published on websites.  Responsibilities  ? Worked alone on project from gathering requirements developing the entire application with help from third party for publishing ads  ? Developed RESTful web services using Python, Django for the backend and MySQL server.  ? Wrote python routines to create logs about customer's impressions, clicks and subscriptions every week.  ? Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS5 and Javascript.  ? Handled all the client side validation using Javascript  ? Built application using Python 2.7  ? Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  ? Performed QA testing on the application.  ? Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  ? Participated in complete SDLC process  ? Used Django framework to develop the application.  ? Used Django APIs for database access Jr Software Developer Orange Research Labs - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh August 2010 to December 2012 Project: Worked on developing social networking site for enterprises created chat windows, ftp servers for uploading and downloading files in common location.  Responsibilities:  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 2009