Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Billtrust New York, NY I am a Software Developer with 3+ years of experience who is always looking for new opportunities and challenges to learn and grow both technically and professionally. Whether it be my degree in mathematics or my ability to quickly pick-up programming languages like PHP, python and C#, I have a proven track record of being able to deal with complicated ideas and difficult problems with a positive and persistent attitude. I bring my hard work and strong technical background to all my endeavors, both in and out of the workplace. Work Experience Software Developer Billtrust - Lawrenceville, NJ 2018 to Present ••••Fast-paced production oriented role where I am responsible for supporting eight enterprise applications written in a wide array of languages including PHP,  Python & C# using MySQL databases.  ••••Bug fixes & feature requests.  ••••Use Kanban scheduling system to prioritize case work.  ••••Cutting and merging branches for deployment using GIT and SVN repositories.  ••••Won the "Work-Horse" award for outstanding work-ethic. Application Support Engineer ( Python Developer) Billtrust - Lawrenceville, NJ 2015 to 2018 ••••Implemented clients onto our platform by writing custom python scripts to meet client's requirements; provided post go-live production support.  ••••Wrote parsers for file formats like XML, delimited and flat files.  ••••Built desktop java applications to help automate workflows and daily tasks.  ••••Documented processes and responsible for training new-hires. Education B.Sc in Applied Mathematics New Jersey Institute of Technology September 2014 Skills PHP (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS & INTERESTS  • PHP • Working knowledge of RESTful concepts•  • Python • Kanban/Scrum methodologies•  • MySQL • Strong interest in software development•  • GIT, SVN • Quantitative and analytical skills  • Working knowledge of C#, Java• • Proficiency in Urdu and Hindi•  • Working knowledge of Angular 2.0+• •