Angular Developer Angular <span class="hl">Developer</span> Angular Developer - NYC Human Resource Administration Iselin, NJ • 2+ years of experience as a full stack Developer with proficiency in analysis, design, and testing  enterprise applications using Python, Angular 2+, and Django.  • Proficient in front-end development with experience using Python 2/3, Django, HTML5, CSS3,  JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular 2+, and Node.js.  • Experienced in working with Angular concepts like Directives, Components, Router, Data Binding,  Reactive Forms, Form Validations, Pipes, and Services.  • Experience working with Django templates, views, forms, authentication, and models.  • Experienced in the application of regular expressions to validate input fields and URLs.  • Experienced with the use of Python libraries such as NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, and re.  • Strong foundation in OOP principles, and writing extensible, reusable, and maintainable code.  • Experience using and creating REST API's that provide CRUD operations.  • Experience with creating, querying and maintaining databases with many DBMS such as MySQL,  MongoDB, and SQLite.  • Experience writing unit tests for applications using Postman and UnitTest.  • Experience in effective implementation of Django ORM and object document mapping (ODM).  • Familiar with the AGILE software development process, as well as participating in scrum calls.  • Experience in working and developing in segregated environments with virtualenv. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Angular Developer NYC Human Resource Administration - Brooklyn, NY February 2019 to Present New York City's Department of Human Resource Administration (HRA) is responsible for maintaining and allocating taxpayer dollars to programs that resolve social service issues. The application I am working on  creates a portal for child care providers throughout the city's boroughs. Providers can register users,  maintain child records, enroll children who qualify for child care financial assistance, and bill invoices  through the developed application. The application utilizes various extensive forms, controllers, ngx- datatables, registration services, and various other Angular 6 dependencies. The backend of the  application follows the ASP.NET framework and is coded entirely in C# as are its APIs. Databases for this  application rest on a SQL server. And are constantly accessed through the RESTful APIs.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in a fast-paced environment on multiple projects and teams. Used Angular Framework  to design and develop website using MVC- Model View Controller architecture.  • Developed professional web-based UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Involved in creating UML flow diagram and EER for database design.  • Used Angular reactive forms and validations to validate the user input.  • Used Bootstrap and CSS3 to build responsive-websites for different devices like mobile,  desktop, laptop, and others.  • Developed Authentication and Security using Angular built-in authentication.  • Used Angular built-in and custom services to consume the RESTful APIs in the front-end.  • Deploy the application through GitHub for the version control. Created MySQL databases, tables  and views. Used sessions for better performance of the web page.  • Wrote queries and procedures on tables in various created databases.  • Created the module transforming the web page to pdf file using Python for clients to easily  retrieve invoices and documents.  • Utilized Angular routing modules to create single page applications and implemented lazy load.  • Deployed the platform built using Angular to AWS. Generated Ec2 and connected to MySQL  database.  Environment: Python, Angular, TypeScript, Express, CSS3, HTML5, PyCharm, NumPy, Pillow, PayPal, Git,  MySQL Workbench, Pandas, Matplotlib, GitHub, AJAX, jQuery, Bootstrap, AWS, Jira, REST API, DRF- Django Rest Framework, Postman, Atom, PyCharm, Git, Git-Bash, Sublime Text Full Stack Developer Discover Financial Services, Inc - Pittsford, NY May 2018 to February 2019 is a financial services company based out of North America. The company  owns Discover Bank which offers its clients financial services including credit cards, loans, checking and saving accounts. I worked with a team of software developers on Discover Card's website which allows its  users to navigate between their various credit cards accounts with Discover as well as view their  statements, make online payments, view their credit card history, order card replacements and request  for additional loans. During my time on this internal project, I focused on increasing the efficiency of the Discover user interface and ensuring that clients were able to access their data and credit cards with ease on the go. I achieved this by using technologies including Angular, Bootstrap, CSS3 and HTML5.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in a fast-paced environment on multiple projects and teams. Used Angular Framework  to design and develop website using MVC- Model View Controller architecture.  • Developed professional web-based UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Involved in creating UML flow diagram and EER for database design. Created MySQL tables.  • Used Angular reactive forms and validations to validate the user input.  • Developed Authentication and Security using Angular built-in authentication.  • Used Angular built-in and custom services to consume the RESTful APIs in the front-end.  • Deploy the application through GitHub for the version control.  • Adopted ng-template and ng-model to create the form for user-friendly pop-ups.  • Used sessions for better performance of the web page.  • Wrote queries and procedures on tables in various created databases.  • Created the module transforming the web page to pdf file using Python for clients to easily  retrieve invoices and documents.  • Utilized Angular routing modules to create single page applications and implemented lazy load.  • Deployed the platform built using Angular to AWS. Generated Ec2 and connected to MySQL  database.    Environment: Python, Angular, TypeScript, Express, CSS3, HTML5, PyCharm, NumPy, Pillow, PayPal, Git,  MySQL Workbench, Pandas, Matplotlib, GitHub, AJAX, jQuery, Bootstrap, AWS, Jira, REST API, DRF- Django Rest Framework, Postman, Atom, PyCharm, Git, Git-Bash, Sublime Text Python Developer Pennington Law Group - South Orange, NJ December 2017 to May 2018 The Pennington Law Group is a firm of experienced attorneys that practice civil and criminal law based out of South Orange, New Jersey. I was hired to revamp the firm's website to allow for additional  functionalities, easy to use admin interfaces, and client base management. My responsibilities included  developing a user-friendly website that allowed the clients and attorneys to communicate and easily  access the websites contents. I stored and updated client records and referrals in databases and generated invoices based on attorney rates and hourly input. The technologies used in developing this  project included the Django framework, MongoDB databases, and Python scripts.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing the back-end of the website by gathering requirements from Business Analyst and turning those into suitable code structures.  • Used Django framework to develop the site using MVT- Model View Template architecture.  • Developed professional web-based UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and JavaScript.  • Used NumPy to analyze customer preference and Pandas and Matplotlib to visualize the result  for administrative use.  • Developed Restful API's for all the functionalities implemented in the project using Class based  Views in Python Django. Created MySQL and PostgreSQL databases, tables and views.  • Used virtualenv and pip to work in segregated environments for specific project requirements.  • Developed Authentication and Security using Python Django's built-in authentication.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting embedded applications to improve  performance and identify and fix issues.  • Deploy the application through GitHub for the version control. Tested the application using  PyTest, Unittest, and Postman.    Environment: Python-Django, SQL, SQLite, MySQL, Restful-API, Bootstrap, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery,  CSS3, Postman, Atom, PyCharm, Sublime Text, DRF- Django Rest Framework, PostgreSQL Python Developer Geisinger Health System - Danville, PA January 2017 to September 2017 is a research and practice medical center headquartered in Central Pennsylvania.  Geisinger Center for Health Research is a $21 million research facility on the GHS Danville campus. This  facility sponsors academic and medical research on a large scale with access to its large database of electronic health records. I worked as part of an internal software team on this facility that used MRI data  from patients' records provided by Geisinger's Fornwalt lab to develop an algorithm that mapped out the blood flow within veins and arteries, the workings of both ventricles, and a three-dimensional volumetric  representation of the human heart. A customized version of the minimum spanning tree was  implemented in this program to calculate the various focus points on the volumetric image. This algorithm  was intended to be used by surgeons in real time in the OR and in general patient care to accurately  diagnose diseases, pathogens, and heart conditions.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the all phases of Software Development Life Cycle like Requirements gathering,  Analysis, Design and implementation of the project.  • Performed data analysis on MRI data from Geisinger Hospital's Fornwalt Lab.  • Classifying and organizing the obtained MRI data in implementable MySQL databases.  • Created a Graphical User Interface in MATLAB for plotting the MRI data points.  • Creating models and routes in Django to implement certain data sets.  • Improved time efficiency and volumetric accuracy of the code to precisely map the blood flow  by comparing the complexity of versions of the program in Python.  • Implemented Django forms in the GUI to allow for input values from medical professionals.  • Used Jira and Git source control to manage workflow and track project development.    Environment: Python, Angular, Django, SQLite, PyCharm, MySQL Workbench, MATLAB, HTML5,  MongoDB, Jira, Git, AWS, REST API, DRF- Django Rest Framework, Postman, Atom, PyCharm, Git-Bash,  Sublime Text, Bootstrap, Express, PyCharm Full Stack Developer A1 Enterprise - Manhattan, NY July 2016 to December 2016 A1 Enterprise is shipping and handling company that manufactures, supplies, and delivers clothing to retailers such as Kohls, Macy's, TJ Maxx, Target, etc. I worked with an internal team employed by A1  Enterprise to develop an inventory software that kept track of the inventory being shipped, the inventory's worth, updated location, recipient, and manufacturer.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the various phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) like Requirements  gathering, Analysis, Design and implementation of the project.  • Assisted in modifying the server for back-end API to perform the CRUD operations server using  AngularJS Framework.  • Perform the test using PyUnit Test using Django. Set up databases that transported JSON data.  • Experience in performing CRUD operations using MongoDB  • Utilized Mongoose for Object relational mapping to create model Schema and database design.  • Implemented token-based authentication (JWT) using AngularJS Auth Service and Node JS.  • Implemented reading functionality to consume Django API server for the list of customers using  Django-rest-framework.  • Deploy the application through GitHub for the version control.  • Deployed the platform built using AngularJS to AWS. Generated Ec2 and connected to MySQL.    Environment: AngularJS, Nodejs, MongoDB, Mongoose, Express, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Mathematics, and Physics Susquehanna University Skills AWS. (1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), Databases (1 year), Django (1 year), MySQL (1 year), Javascript, Git, HTML 5, CSS Certifications/Licenses Driver's License