BI/Tableau Developer BI/Tableau <span class="hl">Developer</span> BI/Tableau Developer - Niktor LLC Plainville, CT ? Results-driven business intelligence professional with 3+ years experiences which includes analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of applications, reports and databases.  ? Highly skilled in designing and implementing BI solutions to automate end-user reporting that traditionally required countless hours of manual computation.  ? Committed to helping organizations achieve maximum benefit from their technology investment, through insightful system administration, process re-engineering, solid user training, and acute attention to management needs.  ? Expert in data Extraction, Transforming and Loading (ETL) using various tools such as SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Data Transformation Services (DTS), creating Dynamic packages for Incremental Loads.  ? Skilled in Tableau Desktop for data visualization, Reporting and Analysis; Cross tab, Geographic Map, Pie Charts and Bar Charts.  ? Highly involved in Designing, developing and deploying Tableau to import data from source systems and deploy Tableau.  ? Work closely with management to prioritize business and information needs Enabled Tableau actions to drill down from Dashboard to worksheet.  ? Good understanding of (SDLC) software development life cycle process methodologies and principles.  ? Expert Knowledge of Reporting Services (SSRS), Integration Services (SSIS) and Analysis Services (SSAS).  ? Excellent Report creation skills in developing reports like Tabular Reports, Matrix Report, Charts, Custom Reports, using Report Designer as well as Report Builder in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) in Business Intelligent Development Studio (BIDS).  ? Experience in creating PowerBI Dashboards (Power View, Power Query, Power Pivot, Power Maps).  ? Collaborate with Project Managers, Data Analysts & Developers for a wide range of projects to clearly define specific business needs, expectations, timelines & execution methods, which are clearly communicated to specific business groups  ? Involve in Integration & handled all Integration related bugs and reviews.  ? Proficient in SQL Server and T-SQL (DDL and DML) in constructing Tables, Normalization/ De normalization Techniques on database Tables.  ? Provide technical and analytical expertise in responding to complex, specialized report requests requiring higher-level data analysis and data management services  ? Skill at assessing client needs, working in groups, suggesting ideas that enhance efficiency and performance, implementing technology solutions, and training end users. Work Experience BI/Tableau Developer Niktor LLC - Plainville, CT January 2017 to Present Niktor LLC is a growing Product development company involved in providing wide range of application and development & Technical support to the various clients for past decade. Work as an active member of Reporting & Analytics team for providing critical analysis to multiple business groups across the company. Develop effective and scalable Business Intelligence solutions including Data Visualizations, Dashboards, Reporting Data Marts, operational Reports and Data Integration solutions.    ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment. Participated in the complete SDLC process.  ? Demonstrate success designing and administering reporting solutions that substantially improve operational stability, efficiency and profitability.  ? Prepare Dashboards using calculations, parameters in Tableau 10.4.  ? Responsible for creating the complex Analytical, Executive and operational Tableau Reports.  ? Connect to live databases and creating the Tableau data extracts for creating the workbooks.  ? Connect to multiple data sources (excel files, flat files, SQL Server) to do analytics in Tableau Desktop and creating the Data extracts and data sources, publishing to Tableau server.  ? Design, Develop, Test, Publish and maintain PowerBI Functional reports, Dashboards based on user requirements.  ? Provide ad-hoc reports to key business partners across different groups to help drive the business decisions.  ? Write complex SQL queries and optimizing them to pull the required data in an effective way.  ? Coordinate with partners both inside and outside the company, understand the business need, perform the required data analysis and provide valuable insights.  ? Create an end-to-end automated process to run each unit through a rule engine before shipping to double check the quality of the products, which is very critical to the business.  ? Ad-hoc data analysis involving extensive data profiling.  ? Participate in IT sprint planning sessions and project prioritization sessions when applicable  ? Develop and implement data collection systems and other strategies that optimize statistical efficiency and data quality. Interpret data, analyze results using statistical techniques and provide ongoing reports.  ? Acquire data from primary or secondary data sources and maintain databases/data systems. Identify, analyze, and interpret trends or patterns in complex data sets.  ? Actively participate in clarification meeting with the Clients.  ? Involve in testing the SQL Scripts for report development, Tableau reports, Dashboards, Scorecards and handle the performance issues effectively.  ? Test dashboards to ensure data was matching as per the business requirements and if there were any changes in underlying data.  ? Participate in meetings, reviews, and user group discussions as well as communicating with stakeholders and business groups.  ? Use Spark cluster to manipulate RDD's (resilient distributed datasets) and also used concepts of RDD partitions.  ? Write Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  ? Have experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints.  ? Experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? SQL Server (experience in designing database, writing and implementing SQL stored procedures and scripts, and performance tuning).  ? Demonstrate success designing and administering reporting solutions that substantially improve operational stability, efficiency and profitability. SQL- Python Developer Granules Omni Chem Pvt. Ltd January 2013 to February 2015 Responsible for the design, development and implementation of mappings /transformations based on source-to-target specifications, defining ETL (extract, transform, load) development standards and conventions.  ? Worked with team of developers designed, developed and implement a BI solution for Sales, Product and Customer KPIs.  ? Created action filters, parameters and calculated sets for preparing dashboards and worksheets in Tableau  ? Involved in Integration & handled all Integration related bugs and reviews.  ? Extensively used Dynamic SQL commands and SQL stored procedures to interact with the Database.  ? Managed to learn and apply new technologies quickly.  ? Exceptional ability to build productive relationships with colleagues.  ? Involved in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process by analyzing business requirements and understanding the functional work flow of information from source systems to destination systems.  ? Developed Tableau visualizations and dashboards using Tableau Desktop.  ? Worked with business analyst to identify and understand source data systems.  ? Created complex SSIS packages to extract data and scheduled Jobs to call the packages using SQL server agent.  ? Analyze Data and generate ad-hoc report on SQL Database and prepared user manuals and provide training to end-users in open item section which include all the up to date open items and corresponding answers for the business.  ? Create monthly technical reports for the PM using SQL queries, visual and technical presentations.  ? Validate transaction records and extract data using SQL queries.  ? Provide consultation on concurrent projects and serves as a specialist in most phases of systems analysis.  ? Developed visualization of analysis results and delivered insights to clients and internal partners.  ? Approve, schedule, plan, and supervise the installation and testing of new products and improvements to computer systems such as the installation of new databases.  ? Designed store procedures using dynamic SQL.  ? Based on business requirement, developed the Complex SQL queries with Joins and T-SQL, Stored procedure, Views, and Triggers to implementing the business rules  and transformations. Education MS in Computer science in Object-Oriented Design Rivier University - Nashua, NH August 2017 Skills DATABASES (3 years), SQL SERVER (3 years), MYSQL (1 year), SQL (3 years), TABLEAU (3 years) Additional Information Areas of Expertise    Languages: R Language, Advanced SQL  Databases: Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL.  Bug Tracking Tools: Jira, Bugzilla  Decision Analysis Tools: Knime, Tableau, Qlikview, Cognos, SAP, SAS, SPSS,  Platforms: Linux Red Hat/Ubuntu/CentOS, Windows, Linux.