Lead Web Developer Lead Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Magento & WordPress Developer Hacienda Heights, CA • Currently working full-time as a Magento & Wordpress web developer.  • Two year experience in web development and related areas.  • Newly graduated with a master’s degree in Computer Science from DePaul Universiy in 2015. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Web Developer OODDA.com - Walnut, CA September 2016 to Present Lead, guide, and coach a 4-member team to develop and design Magento or WordPress based applications.    ? Communicate with clients to correctly gather requirements and translate requirements into effective technical solutions.  ? Monitor project progress, track key items, conduct reviews.  ? Coordinated with the quality assurance team to establish and adjust procedure and quality standard for development.  ? Cooperate with marketing and sales team to establish project scope and analyze project financial performance.  ? Establish standard protocol for development.  ? Design and implement in-house scripts using in web development, maintenance and data integration.  ? Similar web developer responsibilities as previous position. Magento Web Developer OODDA.com - Walnut, CA May 2016 to September 2016 Developed and maintained e-commerce applications based on Magento platform, and CMS applications based on WordPress platform.    Use best practice to develop and customize Magento and Wordpress applications.  Work with HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, and Bootstrap to customize frontend.  Coding with PHP to customize Magento and Wordpress applications at core level.  Vision Control using Git.  Optimize page loading speed, resolve responsive issues, and improve cross-browser compatibility.  Find and fix vulnerabilities, and apply security patches.  Perform social networking and paid-advertising integration.  Maintain web applications. Manage application and database backup with retention.  Setup and monitor production server using Bash and Perl scripting. Scripting for bulk action or data integration. Python Web Developer Dinna - Rowland Heights, CA August 2015 to March 2016 After I finished graduate school, I helped a small export business build a simple management system, which was designed to track incomes, expenses, statues of orders and shipment information. The management system is now running with basic functionalities. More functionalities are being developed incrementally. Python Web Developer DePaul University - Chicago, IL September 2014 to December 2014 I joined an open source project started by my instructor. I worked with a 20- developer team developing a learning management system using Python(class, student, grade management, blackboard function, online lectures.) Java Web Developer Capital Normal University - ??? September 2011 to June 2012 I received a precious opportunity to obtain an on-campus internship in my final year of college in China. I participated in a school project where we developed a meeting management system using Java (meeting, attendee management) for the university. Education Computer Science, MS DePaul University - Chicago, IL 2013 to 2015 Software Engeneering, BS Capital Normal University - ??? 2008 to 2012 Skills Professional: Excellent learning ability, self-motivated, detail-oriented, good sense of teamwork, Programming languages: Java, Python, PHP, Scala, C#, C, Objective-c, C++, and always ready to learn new languages., Database knowledge: MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server, Web technology: HTML, Javascript, JQuery, CSS, Bootstrap, Server setup & maintenance: Bash and Perl scripting, analyzing logs, managing backups, hosting setup., Network knowledge: network architecture and protocols, Operating systems: Linux, Windows, Version control: Git, Software engineering: Agile methodologies, waterfall model, UI design software: Photoshop Links http://www.wenhaoliu.com/ https://www.linkedin.com/in/wenhao-liu-71b0a5a9