Web Developer + Python Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> + <span class="hl">Python</span> Web Developer + Python Addison, TX • 5+ Years of professional Software Development experience of various stand-alone and client-server based applications using Python and web-based applications using JavaScript, HTML/XML.  • Experience in developing event-driven applications using Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax.  • Hands-on experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django frameworks.  • Hands-on Experience with Java technologies, Collections, Servlets, Web Services SOAP/RESTful, PHP 5.3.  • Possess working knowledge of Database programming using SQL, PL/SQL using SQL Server and MySQL.  • Used various IDE tools such as NetBeans, Eclipse, PyDev for software development  • Exposure to AWS services like EC2 instances, S3 buckets, Auto Scaling, Glacier and configuring Cloud watch alarms.  • Experience with Version Control, GIT  • Strong Experience in statistical modelling using R and Excel. Forecasting and prediction using z-curves, t-curves, regression analysis.  • Experience in working with application servers - Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0)  • Highly curious about learning emerging technologies.  • Capable of quickly learning and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team. Work Experience Web Developer + Python University of North Texas January 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed a UI of the course website using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML to represent data pertaining to individual user.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Implemented server-side scripting to authenticate and authorize users on students or professors landing page.  • Performed unit testing of various modules inside the web application.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Optimized data collected from performance of students and survey using Python and R.  • Developed a word cloud for retrieving the most frequently searched words. Performed Sentiment analysis to track user opinion using R programming.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings and performed testing on the application.  • Efficiently organized Agile environment experience.  Environment: Python, R, JavaScript, HTML 5.0, XML Web Services, Git, Eclipse, NetBeans, REST, SOAP, WebSphere Python Developer Twisted X - Decatur, TX February 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Created entire application using Python, MS SQL and Unix.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface.  • Designed, configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Developed the back-end web services for the worker using Python and REST APIs.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Involved in writing python scripts for Unit testing, Automation testing and used Jenkins for Integrations testing by creating jobs.  • Used Git and JIRA for code submissions and issue tracking.  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings and followed agile methodology.  Environment: Python, Django, Panda API, JSON, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, SOAP, My SQL, Agile. Associate Software Developer TechMahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Associate Software Engineer  • Developed a UI designs, validations, business logic using HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript.  • Implemented SQL queries, views, triggers and store-procedures to develop and access the databases for the website using SQL server 2012.  • Designed and developed Views, Model and Controller components implementing MVC Design Pattern.  • Associated with development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responded to service tickets and service requests within established time frame using JIRA.  • Interacted with the business users and collected the requirements. Analyzed business requirements, designed and recommended solutions over Agile Methodology.  • Implemented test plan based on Unit and Integration functionalities for the hosted websites.  • Deployed bug fixes and patch-sets for existing databases and web applications.  • Responsible for vulnerability testing.  • Customized applications based on new requirements.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JIRA, SOAP, Active Directory, IIS, SQL Server Management 2012, Windows OS Jr Software Developer Tech Mahindra, Bahadurpally - IN June 2014 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed UI using HTML, AJAX, Java script and jQuery.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Developed rich UI web application using JavaScript libraries.  • Designed, developed components, retrieved and manipulate data using Python.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of Python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Support the scripts configuration, testing, execution, deployment and run monitoring.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.  Environment: HTML Restful API, MySQL, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, UNIX, Linux Software Programmer Lycos - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Worked on Web Services using Java API for XML Services and supporting, building and deploying web APIs Services.  • Developed PL/SQL code using My SQL server.  • Also involved in domain management like registering a new domain, parking the domain, creating host headers etc. Generated CSR for websites and SSL's for the website.  • Take up responsibility in submitting websites for security scan and fix the vulnerabilities found in the scan and submit the website again for re scan.  Environment: Java, Shell scripting, PL/SQL, HP Quality Center, Windows. Education Master of Science in Information Studies in Information Studies University of North Texas at Denton - Denton, TX JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills AJAX (2 years), JavaScript (3 years), SOAP (2 years), SQL (3 years), XML (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages: Java Core, J2EE, C#, SQL, JavaScript, AngularJS, Python, R  Web Technologies: PHP5.3, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Ajax, XML, RESTFul, SOAP  Databases Systems: SQL Server 2008/2012, MS-Access, MySQL  Web Servers: IIS, Apache Tomcat 7, Amazon Web Service, Active Directory  Other Technologies: Linux, MS Excel, SAS, TCP/IP, HTTP, Eclipse