Python/Web2py Developer <span class="hl">Python</span>/Web2py <span class="hl">Developer</span> I am a driven professional with broad technical skill set and involved in web development using the interpreter programming languages. Excellent communicator experienced in interpreting and implementing business concepts into IT solutions. Known for ability to multi-task, learn fast and juggle multiple pressing projects simultaneously, meeting all deadlines. Thrives through new challenges and constantly updates myself on new technologies and trends.    Having over 3.3 years of experience is mostly working on PYTHON, DJANGO, HTML, CSS and Databases like Oracle. I also participate in every step of web development life cycle process to make user experience better. Work Experience Python/Web2py Developer January 2018 to Present Description:  Contractum is a leading contract management software solution, that lets you experience flawless tracking during the entire contract management lifecycle.Contractum is a vital addition to your regulatory compliance software. It offers a simple interface and ease of use enabling you to manage and control your complete contract workflow. Contractum is an intelligent contract authoring platform and is a smart choice. Supports all document formats like email, word, pdf, jpeg etc.    Responsibilities:  • Easy integration with your enterprise solutions  • Developed Smooth contract approval and execution  • Managing regular updates and status of contracts  • Developing Email based workflow.  • Provides streamlined document management  • Developed Version controlling system for giving a complete contract history.    PROJECT: 2    Project Name: Lyterati  Tools: Django, Python, HTML, Oracle  Team size: 5 Python Developer One Delat Synergies Pvt Ltd - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN December 2017 to March 2018 in Bangalore (In the payrole of JoulstoWatts Business Solutions Pvt Ltd). Django Developer Tech Mahindra December 2016 to November 2017 Description:  Lyterati is an Higher educational domain application. This application is used to automate the annual review of the faculty and to maintain all the information's about the faculty. It helps in uploading and maintaining the historical CV data of the faculty and also helps in submission, retrieval and updating of annual report of the faculty to their supervisor.    Responsibilities:  • Making changes in the existing code  • Designed and maintained databases using Python  • Support application projects and create new applications  • Handle UI and server-side programming.    PROJECT: 3    Project Name: Hotel Pricing Tool  Environment: Django1.8, Python 2.7  Team size: 5 Software Engineer Tech Mahindra - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN 2014 to 2017 in Bangalore (In the payrole of Transcube Technologies Pvt Ltd).    TOOLS  • Programming Languages: Python, Core Java  • Frontend Technologies: Html, Css, AngularJS  • Web frameworks: Django, Web2py  • Database systems: Oracle, MySql  • Tools: Pycharm, Sublime  • Operating Systems: Linux, Windows.    PROJECT DETAILS  PROJECT: 1    Project Name: Contractum  Tools: Web2py, Python, HTML, MySQL Developer Hotel Price Comparison B2B January 2016 to November 2016 Description:  Hotel Price Comparison B2B tool is used get prices of different hotels under particular city, its similar to other price comparison web sites, but this tool is delivered to Hotelier, which is used to understand the market standards.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Understanding the requirements and developing the code using Python and Django.  • Contributed in developing business logic at backend  • Involved in developing web applications for client specification  • Performing code optimizations  • I was involved in restfull web services.  • Developed Tool in Django to execute test cases and assign issue    PROJECT: 3    Project Name: Management of Health Integration  Environment: Django 1.8, Python 2.7  Team size: 4 Developer Tech Mahindra November 2014 to December 2015 Description:  This is a complete health Integration system for Management, which provides automated technological solution to Health Management Systems. It includes solution to automate various Health Care requirements like outpatient flow, inpatient flow and back-office requirements. Front office provides an efficiently integrated module that includes Patient Registration, Appointment Scheduling, , Clinical Workbench, Wards Management, Operation Theaters, Laboratories, Radiology, Pharmacy, Blood Bank, EMR, Insurance, and Billing.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the python code for the business logic.  • Involved in creating the email engine using smtplib and email modules.  • Involved in writing the framework using request/response handling.  • Involved in UI Design and Coding for corresponding forms.  • Wrote queries for retrieving data from back end. Education Bachelor in COMPUTER SCIENCE Degree College Additional Information SKILLS    • Experience in web development using Python and Django, Web2py Framework.  • Experience in developing User Interface using HTML, CSS.  • Experience in Relational Database programming.  • Familiarity with agile development methodology.  • Good Knowledge on Object Oriented Programming and web services.  • Have excellent analytical, problem solving, and interpersonal communication skills.  • Ability to learn and adapt to new technologies.  • Having Strong Knowledge on Multithreading concepts.