Full Stack Python developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Full Stack Python developer Madison, WI Over 3+ years of experience in analysis, design, development, management and implementation of various stand-  alone, client-server enterprise applications in python while using libraries like beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy,  matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity and  experience in developing web based applications using Django, flask, CSS, HTML, JQuery, JavaScript and ReactJs. Work Experience Full Stack Python developer TDS Telecom - Madison, WI July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Used ReactJs and MobX for front end development.  • Created ReactJS components and managed States and Props while utilizing ES6 features.  • Using Fetch to request JSON data through python Django REST APIs to acquire data from the server and display it in sorted order.  • Used many NPM installable react modules such as react-sortable-tree, react-table, AgGrid, match- sorter and many more.  • Used Celery/RabbitMq (Asynchronous task queue based on distributed message passing and RabbitMq  works as a broker) to distribute the workload between machines in Django application.  • Setup and used Couchbase as NoSql database for cache memory.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Using Subversion and GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Run and build the servers locally using docker.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Setup Cron Job in python and shell script to execute background tasks on a routine basis.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its  commands.  • Involved in using ReactJs components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are  reported by Testing Team.  • Coded Unitests and Integration tests for everything in the backend.    Environment: Python 3.5, Django 1.5, Pandas, GIT, ReactJS, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, RabbitMq, Celery,  CentOS Linux, Couchbase server 5.0, NodeJs, MobX, JSX(ES6), NPM, Babel, Docker Python/Flask Developer TDS Telecom - Madison, WI October 2016 to June 2017 Client: TDS Telecom, Madison WI Oct 2016 - June 2017  Role: Python/Flask developer    Responsibilities:  • Used Flask framework for application development.  • A login/logout application with SAML authentication/authorization protocol with the new  OpenId/OAuth support.  • The TDS Login application includes several modules such as registration module, forgot password  module, forgot username module etc., which is all available via https://login.tds.net  • The TDS login application is a python/Flask application which uses several libraries such as Flask 0.12,  python marshmallow (Simplified object serilaization), Python LDAP3, Selenium (Functional/Acceptance  testing), JQuery (For front end), Tox (For automation), Sphinx, Fabric (For auto deploy), Suds (For Python  Soap Client) and many more.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed frontend and entire backend modules using Python on Flask Web Framework.  • Setup and used Couchbase as NoSql database for cache memory.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and Used Suds ( Python  library for SOAP) to parse the WSDL files (XML content) into python data types.  • Setup and Used selenium with Chrome, Mozilla and phantom web driver for functional testing and automated the testing process using TOX.  • Wrote unittest's, functional test's and integration test's for every module in the application.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its  commands.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  • Using Subversion and GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7/3.5, Flask 0.12, Pandas, GIT, SVN, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting,  HTML5/CSS, CentOS Linux, Couchbase server 4.0, python Ldap3, Teaching Assistant August 2015 to May 2016 • Worked as a teaching assistant in Basic information systems and Algorithms:1  • Assisted students in academics and professor in grading and course work  • Worked as a research assistant from time to time assisting professor in various research activities  involving python. Engineering Mentor, Upward Bound Math and science, UNT January 2015 to August 2015 • Worked as a tutor for Engineering and physics mentor at UBMS(Govt. funded program)  • Assisted the Trio program in providing motivation to high school students in joining STEM field.  • Worked as an office assistant from time to time helping the team run errands. Python developer AG corp - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and Used Jython and  Wireshark to test and troubleshoot proper XML SOAP packet creation using auto-generated Java web- services, eventually allowing PBS to replace outsourced PHP code with Python web service calls and  created data entry web applications, with LINQ to SQL CRUD operations  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed custom web forms using Jquery and JavaScript.  • Migrated legacy application in fortran and C to Python.  • Worked on prototypes for Responsive design.  • Wrote test plans and performed unit testing and performance testing.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application    Environment: Python2.7, HTML, CSS, JSON, JSP, JQuery, MVC, SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL. Education Masters of Science University of North Texas August 2014 to June 2016 Skills Javascript, React, Node