Analyst, Software QA Analyst, Software QA Analyst, Software QA - General Motors, Co Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Analyst, Software QA General Motors, Co - Austin, TX June 2014 to Present Conducted QA testing across multiple portfolio projects to gain a great understanding of the agile and iterative software  development life-cycle processes and rapidly become a subject matter expert in the applications. Ready and capable to translate business requirements into valid test data and scenarios.  • Proven that my testing coverage greatly reduces the number of production and UAT defects. Assist business and UAT  testers with test case design, leading to better execution of UAT and successful application releases.  • Following strict standards while also being flexible to individual project teams' operations allowed for building great  individual relationships and team dynamics between all contributors in DEV/QA/BA.  • Leveraged BDD automation strategies for UI testing to streamline build verification prior to deployments. In addition,  developed automated API test suites to reduce regression windows.  • Planned and lead UAT phases for in-house test automation platform. Intern, Python Developer Social Health Insights, LLC - Fishers, IN May 2013 to August 2013 Created a tool for identifying which Clinical Quality Measures (CQM) that each CMS and government healthcare agency  require hospital and provider reporting on.  • Created a relational database to store all of the CQM data and a Google AppEngine web application to search, visualize, and organize the vast amount of quality measure data.  • Working directly with the CEO of a startup revealed many of the crucial elements of a successful health IT company. Education B.S. in Marketing School of Informatics & Computing May 2014 Indiana University - Bloomington, IN Skills Quality Assurance (3 years), SQL (3 years), API Automation (1 year), Selenium (1 year), Automation (2 years), Software Development (3 years), TFS (3 years)