Survey Monkey, Washington Survey Monkey, Washington El Paso, TX • Experienced Python Developer with proficiency in Design & Development of python 3, python 3.3 Django, flask project.  • Worked in Python Integrated Development Environments like Linux administrator, IDME, Eclipse, Sublime Text etc.  • Hands on Experience in working with Java, Php for backend development.  • Projects of developing and testing mobile applications constructed on python with saas enviornment.  • Developed front end and GUIs using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery)  • Extensive experience in developing enterprise web applications using Python, Java, PHP4 and PHP5, Flask, ninja2, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, MySQL.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, many python based environments, worked on linux for python projects. Work Experience Survey Monkey, Washington September 2014 to Present Python Developer  • Done many team projects for Back end development on Python 2.7, Python 3.1.  • Project for constructing wire-frames for web and mobile applications using Python, Django.  • Good understanding of NoSQL databases such as MongoDB, Datastax, Redis and Apache Cassandra.  • Performed web testing and automated testing using Selenium in the test environment and opened bugs in the bug tracking tool.  • Experience with configuration management and related tools like Puppet.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery)  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Familiar with JSON based also Used Django APIs for database access  • Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, ActiveMQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge)  • Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools  • Knowledge on Virtualization  • Developing and maintaining positive relationships, with both clients as well as within our company.  • Facilitating resolutions by bridging resources across organization.  • Proactively trending issues, in order to determine root cause analysis.  • Constantly augmenting my knowledge of the Ultipro product lines and SaaS related technologies.  • Conducting weekly conference calls to review outstanding issues, and take next steps.  • Using the pragmatic approach of providing support, by listening to clients concerns, and not simply focused on closing tickets.  • Install and Configure Linux with Apache, Oracle 8I and PHP (LAMP Project)  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Did Data analysis using STKA, ELASIS. Software Engineer Sparx IT solutions - San Diego, CA August 2013 to July 2014 Software Device Driver Development and team lead role.  • Designed, developed Ecommerce device applications on SAAS platform.  • Development for iPhone 4 support with Apple Inc.  • Leading designing and developed Windows 8 SW drivers running on Qualcomm chipsets for Touch driver and Button/LED/Haptics driver.  • Keypad and LED device driver development for IOT device.  • Low power mode touch screen application development.  • Android touch screen driver development for Qualcomm touch  • solution, iTouch.  • Android and Windows Mobile Application Development  • Android Application and JNI for Qualcomm in house touch solution.  Full stack touch driver development for Qualcomm touch solution for Android device.  • Windows Phone Touch Testing Application development. Python Developer Gerber Inc - San Jose, CA September 2011 to August 2013 • Managed continuous maintenance and troubleshooting of Python Django projects.  • Handled development and management of front end user interfaces with help of HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created and deployed applications on platforms including Linux and Windows.  • Collaborated with other developers to handle complicated issues related with deployment of Django based applications  • Extensive coding using several Python Modules and controls to rapidly build application.  • Used Python Data structures like lists, dictionaries, and tuples.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base, reducing the number of lines of code and duplication significantly.  • Development was done using Agile methodology with daily scrums, and continuous integration using the SDLC process to deliver higher-quality software far more rapidly.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7/3, SAAS JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache website, E-comerce. Education Masters in Computer Science Nova Southeastern University Btech in Information technology SRM university