Python Developer / Data Engineer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Data Engineer Python Developer / Data Engineer - Comcast Philadelphia, PA Work Experience Python Developer / Data Engineer Comcast - Mount Laurel, NJ September 2017 to Present - Developed efficient ETL processes using python with libraries like pandas and numpy.  - Created a distributed python job scheduling tool complete with a web interface using a flask and jinja2 backend, a html, bootstrap and jQuery front end, and RabbitMQ to schedule ETL jobs to consumers that would that report information about the job back to the web interface.  - Developed a data integrity tool with python and flask that periodically checks SQL and NoSQL databases to ensure data is being populated accurately by ETL processes.  - Regularly created and performed queries on MySQL, SQL Server and NoSQL databases like MongoDB.  - Worked on linux systems in a cloud environment to create highly scalable efficient data solutions. Geospatial Technician BAE Systems - Mount Laurel, NJ July 2015 to September 2017 - Developed highly efficient geospatial tools written in python using arcpy to automate tasks such as attribution updates and conflation of points, lines and polygons.  - Georeferenced images using 3D stereoscopic imagery.  - Digitized data to create high quality maps for the customers.  - Accurately conflated large scale geospatial datasets to meet deadlines set by the customer. Education B.S. in GEOGRAPHY Bloomsburg University of Pennsylvania December 2014 Skills jQuery (Less than 1 year), LINUX (Less than 1 year), MONGODB (Less than 1 year), MS SQL SERVER (Less than 1 year), MYSQL (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SOFTWARE/SKILLS    • Python 2.7 - 3.6 (pandas, numpy, pymysql, pymongo, flask, asyncio, aiomysql, uvloop, concurrent.futures, requests, beautifulsoup, arcpy among other libraries)  • MySQL, MemSQL, SQL Server, MongoDB, JSON  • RabbitMQ, Kafka, Celery  • Sentry, Grafana  • CSS, jQuery, Vanilla Javascript  • Linux, Git  • Adobe Illustrator & Adobe Photoshop CS6  • ArcGIS 10.4+ (Spatial Analyst, Network Analyst, Production Mapping, Defense Mapping, Model Builder, Workflow Manager)  • MS Office (Access, Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook)