Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Dallas, TX 4 years of total IT experience. Interested in web development or projects that involve Python. Fast learner and willing to work on all kind of challenging projects. Flexible for location,salary and working hours. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer JP Morgan - Dallas, TX June 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS.  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Involved in designing, developing and documenting the Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQL db package to retrieve information.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Developed the project in Unix environment.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.    Environment: Python, MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML,Unix,AJAX Software Engineer BOFA - Charlotte, NC October 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML  • Translated application storyboards and use cases into functional.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management  • Ensured the best possible performance, quality, and responsiveness of the applications.  • Identified bottlenecks and bugs, and devise solutions to these problems.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python modules like math, glob, random, itertools, functools.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Support the scripts configuration, testing, execution, deployment and run monitoring and metering.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Help maintain code quality, organization, and automatization.  • Solid understanding of object-oriented programming  • Experienced with both external and embedded databases.    Environment: Python, MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML,MySQL, Unix, AJAX Associate Software Engineer Pfizer - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2012 to August 2014 The main functionality of the Monitor project was to do the performance analysis of the marketing campaigns launched by Pfizer. The company's data comes from different  operational sources and stored in a staging database and then data is loaded into a  centralized database for various strategic business reports.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements gathering, analysis to define business and functional specifications.  • Responsible for creating low level design documents.  • Involved in design review and improvising the design.  • Responsible for creating unit test cases and test the code.  • Involved in peer review activity before promoting code to higher environment.  • Worked on performance Tuning activities to improve the code performance.  • Responsible for managing deliverables.  • Involved in unit testing, system testing, UAT and production Go-Live activity.  • Responsible for Production migration planning and implementation.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base.    Environment: MySQL, Java, HTML, Eclipse, AS400. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Anna University India Additional Information Technical Skills:    • Languages • Python, C++, C, SQL,  • Web Development • HTML, CSS, AJAX  • Frameworks • Django, Flask  • Databases • MySQL, MongoDB  • Operating System • Unix, Linux, Windows  • Software Development Lifecycle • Agile Methodology