Python Developer(SDET) <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>(SDET) Python Developer(SDET) - T-Mobile Redmond, WA * 2 years of experience in field of software development. Proficient in developing test frameworks using Python and Selenium.  * Experienced in working with various stages of Software Testing Life Cycle(STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment process.  * Familiar with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  * Good Knowledge on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts.  * Knowledge on REST API testing using python request module.  * Familiar with Jenkins integration and setting up CI/CD pipeline.  * Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like MySQL.  * Familiar with Scrum/Agile methodologies and testing tools like JIRA for bug tracking.  * Experience in reporting tools like Grafana, Kibana(ELK) for setting up charts and graphs for better visual representation of test results.  * Exposure in few Linux commands.  * Experience in working with various Python IDEs like PyCharm, IDLE, MobaXterm and Sublime Text.  * Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in team environment. Work Experience Python Developer(SDET) T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA October 2018 to Present Project Title: Merged Client UI Automation (Internal Purpose only) *    Description:  Merged Client is being developed using React.js with strongly typed language (Typescript), which comes with better performance and speed. Which is updated version of E-Digits.  Job Responsibilities:  * Explored way to support automation by adding data-qa tags in react code.  * Continuous automation of new features on weekly basis  * Involved in Scrum process, been part of giving right estimates to development user stories during Sprint grooming.  * Effectively automated all the modules being one sprint behind, parallel to sprint development.  * Worked on React development for a while during initial stages, by picking few simple user stories.  * Worked on unit testing scenarios using cypress during initial stages, and observed some major disadvantages of using cypress and unit testing part has been removed from the project.  * Planned to integrate some set of test cases into build process using Jenkins job as to initiate automation run on every check-in, as a primary level of smoke test before code gets merged with develop Branch. Internal Purpose only March 2018 to Present Description:  E-Digits web application was built using Angular JS and it comes with features like Calling, Messaging, Conferencing and other features. In other words, we can say it's a combination of WebEx and Skype features.  Job Responsibilities:  * Involved in development of test infrastructure for the E-Digits web application in Python using object-oriented programming.  * Integrated Perfecto API using Python requests library within the framework as part application testing called IMS scenario testing.  * Involved in developing a robust framework which is capable of handling huge number of Test cases effectively.  * Worked with Business architects to make a Quality Product for Testing the app in various ways  * Developed a code snippet for drag and drop of object in selenium using JavaScript.  * Reporting, validating and assigning bugs to respective development team in JIRA  * Worked with various teams on major bugs and functionality correction as Quality Analyst Role - QA Engineer Total Computer Software Ltd August 2014 to October 2015 Description:  This is an automated process for affiliating colleges. In this process we keep track of Infrastructure  details, Laboratory details Class Room details, Faculty Details and Student Details of colleges according to All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) Standards. Based on available data, reports of each college will be generated. The Local Inquiry Committee (LIC) committee will verify these reports and submit to university.  Job Responsibilities:  * Responsible for writing framework and automating test cases for different features of application using Selenium Framework.  * Writing Test Plan and new Test Cases for new features  * Performed Accessibility and localization using various MS tools  * Responsible for creating VM's using Hyper-V and Involved in Installation, Un-installation and Up-gradation testing of Desktop application.  * Executing test cases through MTM and monitoring health index  * Participating in Code Reviews  * Participating in weekly and monthly sync up call with client and communication progress of work Education Masters in Information Systems Technology in Information Systems Technology Wilmington University Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Django (Less than 1 year), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), Javascript. (1 year), Python (1 year), selenium (2 years), Sql (Less than 1 year), Subversion (Less than 1 year), Svn (Less than 1 year), Version control (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/sai-charan-macha