Research Assistant Research Assistant CS Graduate Student at NYU | Actively seeking Full-time opportunities in Software Engineering, Data Scince Brooklyn, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Research Assistant NYU School of Medicine - Manhattan, NY February 2018 to Present Analyzed trends of ICD-10 diseases across NYC. Tested hypothesis on how certain factors such as temperature, rainfall affect    incidence of different diseases.  • Developed a system to predict the advent of Renal failures amongst patients with the help of Machine Learning models.    • Data Cleaning and Preprocessing techniques: Feature Selection, KNN Imputation, Dimensionality Reduction. Python Developer Intern Big Apple Buddy - Manhattan, NY June 2018 to August 2018 • Developed fault tolerant web scrapers which fed data to marketing analyst in the usable format.    • Developed a web application using Python & Django which tracked the outgoing and incoming packages of the company.    • Developed a Python/Flask application for Google Analytics and AdWords aggregation and reporting. Programmer Analyst Cognizant Technology Solutions February 2016 to July 2017 • Led business analysis and technical design sessions with business and technical staff to develop ETL design specifications.    • Developed and maintained ETL (Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading) mappings using Informatica Designer and SSIS    to extract the data from multiple source systems that comprise databases like Oracle, SQL Server, flat files etc.  • Designed and implemented stored procedures, views and other application database code objects to aid complex mappings.    • Reduced run time of a stored procedure from 10 hours to 8 minutes only. Education Master's in Computer Science New York University - New York, NY August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Information Technology Rajasthan Technical University August 2011 to May 2015 Skills MySQL, Javascript, Python, SQL, Git, HTML 5, CSS, Java, Data Analysis, Databases, Cloud Computing Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ayushsethi https://github.com/ayush159