Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Technology Developer - Bank Of America Jersey City, NJ Seeking a full time job in the field of software development. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer Bank Of America February 2015 to Present Liquidity Risk Management Domain Project  • Developed an efficient module to create excel based reports for users. The module takes a template as an input that can contain user specific formulas set up in them. Then my python code makes sure that data fetched from oracle database using efficient sql queries is populated in the right sections of template. The output of my module is user friendly as it takes in user inputs in the form of a template and gives back a report with all user specific formatting and formulas evaluated for user.  • Currently working on a scheduler, which has a design similar to outlook meeting scheduler. Using scheduler users will be able to automate their report runs. The module is built using a python based UI that is supported by evaluations, processing done by python and the data specific to this module is stored, monitored in oracle database. Intern Bank Of America June 2014 to August 2014 Liquidity Risk Management Domain Project  • Developed an application to calculate time buckets, which was used to understand cash flows of bank on Quartz (Bank's Internal) framework. The application involved building a python based UI, using efficient queries to fetch appropriate data from database, correct and efficient processing of the data using appropriate algorithms and data structures in python.  • Worked to implement Fed 5G regulations for the bank, which involved generating reports in xml format and then validating them against xml schema provided by regulatory authorities. Associate Systems Engineer IBM - Bangalore, Karnataka July 2011 to July 2013 Telecom Domain Project (Client: Telecom major in Netherlands)  • As a mainframe developer was involved in maintaining and enhancing applications performing billing for the client.  • Involved in multiple technical knowledge transfer sessions (from Client to IBM) and reverse knowledge transfer (from IBM to Client), this experience helped me to strengthen my communication, team building skills.  • Attained knowledge of telecommunication domain. Education University at Buffalo, The State University of New York - Buffalo, NY December 2014 People's Education Society Institute of Technology - Bangalore, Karnataka April 2011 Skills Python (2 years), Java (3 years), SQL (1 year), Unix (2 years), C (3 years) Additional Information Skills  C; Java; Python; Matlab; SQL; XML; Eclipse; Quartz; MySQL; Oracle; Unix; Hadoop