Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Philadelphia, PA • Expertise in Academic projects includes Python projects and creation of web pages using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS etc.  • Expertise in Academic projects which includes Database development using My SQL and SQL SERVER etc.  • Strong understanding and Implementation of Database Technologies and writing T-SQL queries.  • Implemented Algorithms such as RSA in Cloud Servers.  • Strong knowledge of object-oriented programming towards front-end libraries in Python and Java.  • Experience using Python to create interactive web applications, mainly focusing at increasing performance.  • Used JQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS for front end web designing  • Solid understanding of object oriented and web technologies.  • Hands on experience in developing of applications using HTML, XML, JavaScript and web services.  • Experience in core java concepts such as Collection framework, Multithreading and Exception Handling.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, self-starter, and good team player.  • Knowledge on Amazon Web Service (AWS). Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer Graks Info June 2013 to July 2014 • Wrote Python scripts to manipulate files and update the content in the database.  • Modified the existing Java files to achieve the required functionality for desktop applications.  • Gathered requirements to automate report generation which reduced huge manual effort.  • Worked on Python Numpy library to perform various complex operations.  • Involved in writing Python scripts to parse the data in XML, JSON formats and lead them into Database.  • Monitor and Troubleshoot OS (Linux) and performance related issues.  • Modifying and designing new UI screens using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Generated various report using Python Report lab and sent to Business users to improve their decision making.  • Installed, configured, and managed the AWS server.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Entailed setting up Salt stack to run AWS.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Expertise in Production support and Knowledge of deployment using Jenkins.  • Experience with the Robot testing framework preferred.  • Good hands on experience in server setup & code deployment on Linux platforms.  • Good knowledge on using version control tools such as GIT.  • Developed the project in Linux environment and involved in support for teams for projects across.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process. Education Masters in Information System Technology in MIS Wilmington University May 2016 Skills AWS (1 year), CSS (1 year), GIT. (1 year), HTML (1 year), JavaScript. (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Python, SQL, C, C++, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML  Framework .NET, XML, MySQL, Bootstrap  BI Tools Tableau 8.x/7.x/6.x  IDE's & Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, GIT, SQL Server, and Microsoft Visual Studio  Software Tools UML, Microsoft Visual Studio, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop  Operating System Web Services Windows, Linux, Mac Amazon web Service (AWS)