Full Stack developer Full Stack <span class="hl">developer</span> Informatics/Software Engineer San Francisco, CA I have extensive experience with end-to-end web application development and large data analysis.   At AVG Technologies, I am currently a Full-Stack Developer on a web application used to monitor global server fleet performance for improved user experience and global infrastructure deployment.   At PayPal, I was the UI/UX Lead on a web application to manage all Transport Layer Security (TSL) within the PayPal internal network. This tool was awarded twice for Innovation and Execution.   At Google, I led the frontend and backend development of a LAMD (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Django) application for work queue statistical analysis and visualization to identify bottlenecks and enhance productivity.    I believe well-documented code representing elegant solutions should be displayed in a museum as a shrine to efficiency and simplicity. I love working with all things Python-related; in fact, my work title at Google was " Python Ninja." In my spare time, I enjoy attending developer conferences to stay abreast of the latest developments in software, and biotech. I also enjoy riding and working on my motorcycle, as well as exploring my SF neighborhood. Work Experience Full Stack developer AVG Technologies - San Francisco, CA November 2012 to Present Developed real-time, end-to-end web application for large dataset analysis and interactive visualization, analogous to Google Finance. This tool is used internally to monitor server fleet performance for enhanced user experience and global infrastructure deployment.  • Python, R, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, HTML5/CSS3  • Django, Gunicorn, Nginx, Apache  • MySQL MongoDB, Database design  • Git, Jenkins   • TCP/IP, RabbitMQ  • Chef, Ruby, Nagios, Statsd  • UI/UX design and implementation Volunteer VITAS Hospice Care - Santa Clara, CA May 2011 to Present Trained and certified a therapy dog. Patient comfort is contingent upon trust and reliability while patient   welfare is dependent upon organization, attention to detail, and close collaboration with a team of   doctors and nurses. Currently my patient care responsibilities include  • palliative care  • provide respite care  • document and keep records of the visits  • emotional support for patients and their families  • PawPals volunteer PayPal, UI/UX lead, python developer Paypal - San Jose, CA April 2012 to October 2012 I led the front end/back end development of a highly-salable, web-based tool to provide transport layer application security. This required securely managing the cryptography, topology and operations configurations of all applications within the PayPal environment. Additional projects included implementing an application for improved response times to distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks.  ? Received PayPal 2012 Everest Award and Lab Rats Innovator Award  • Python, Perl and C+, Java  • Django, Gunicorn, Jetty, Tomcat, Apache, Nginx  • MySQL Database Design, NRDBs  • Git, TCP/IP, Network Protocols  • LDAP, bash scripting  • UI/UX design and implementation  • HTML5/CSS3, XML, GWT, Java/JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax Python developer Google - Mountain View, CA October 2011 to March 2012 Developed web-based LAMD stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis Created and optimized work flow automation tools to facilitate data interpretation and presentation via statistical modeling techniques.   • Django, Python, Apache, bash scripting  • Database Design, PostgreSQL MySQL  • UI/UX deign and implementation  • Java/JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, XML, AppScript, Google App Engine, HTML5/CSS3 Lab Technician Anatomy and Physiology Lab - Pleasant Hill, CA February 2005 to August 2005 The lab supports a cadaver program and requires proper techniques for handling human tissue and hazardous chemicals. The lab specializes in preparing and storing specimens for research and medical studies.  • Restocked and made biological dyes, serums and other chemicals  • Prevented contamination to the preserved specimens  • Ordered biological materials for dissection  • Coordinated the disposal of human tissue, hazardous chemical and biological hazardous waste Lab Assistant Microbiology Lab - Pleasant Hill, CA November 2004 to February 2005 The lab maintains variety of fungi and bacteria for education and research.  • Cataloged and organized the inventory, the guides I wrote up for equipment are still being used.  • Made media including agar and broth for culturing bacteria and fungi  • Made biological dyes and chemicals for the lab  • Prevented contamination, monitored growth and ensured proper cultivation conditions  • Autoclaved and disposed of biohazard materials Education BS in Bioinformatics UC Santa Cruz - Santa Cruz, CA January 2011 Classical Art and Culture Novoaltaisk Art Academy January 1998 Skills Python, Ruby, Django, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery/JQuery UI, Bash, Perl, C, C++, Assembly, Java, UNIX, Linux, Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows NT, Windows 2008 R2, MAC Snow Leopard/ Lion, mySQL, msSQL, PostgreSQL, Redis, Oracle, XML, LDAP, R, MATLAB, Flex, Bison, MS Office, AppScript, Google App Engine, PHP, Ajax, XML, Chef, Git, Github, Gitlab, Nginx, Web Applications, Web Development Additional Information RECENT COURSES:  Machine Learning  Computational Methods and Data Analysis   Quality Code