Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Python San Jose, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Pro-Tek Consulting August 2017 to Present Currently working on Cloud Infrastructure to automate MongoDB provisioning. Developed a website for an existing project using Agile  Methodology with Python Flask Framework and stored data in Mongo DB using Grid FS file storage system. Implemented file management such as file upload, share and delete operations. Created unit tests for testing and improve code coverage. Enforced policy using Open policy  agent (OPA) and used Git for version control. Participated in daily stand up meetings to report work status Data Analyst Media iQ digital - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2014 to July 2015 Provided solutions on performance and brand using data analytics methods such as segmenting and user behavior prediction and obtained insights in digital advertising campaigns. Used Proprietary Customized Technology such as AiQ and Customized Bidding Algorithm to deliver optimum ROI (Return On Investment) Research Assistant SASTRA University January 2014 to May 2014 Prediction of Heart Disease: Implemented various Data Mining Techniques such as J48, Random Forest, Bagging, REP Tree, Naive  Bayes, CART and Decision Stump are used to perform analysis on heart disease dataset. Obtained 97% accuracy with high performing  algorithm Bagging which is used for prediction Education Master of Science in Computer Science California State University - Los Angeles, CA May 2017 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Engineering SASTRA University - Thanjavur, Tamil Nadu May 2015 Skills DJANGO (1 year), Git (2 years), C++ (Less than 1 year), DATABASES (Less than 1 year), ECLIPSE (Less than 1 year), Python (1 year), Java (1 year), Flask (1 year), Docker (Less than 1 year), MongoDB (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/lohita-kodali-44618b9b https://github.com/lokodali Publications Performance Analysis of Various Data Mining Techniques in the Prediction of Heart Disease http://www.indjst.org/index.php/indjst/article/view/87458 2015-12 The main objective of the work is to compare the heart disease prediction accuracy of different data mining classification technique and to find the best technique with minimum incorrectly classified instances. Different classification techniques are used to predict heart disease based on the factors that cause these diseases which include family history, age, obesity and some other factors. Method: This work is carried out in three phases. The First Phase is preprocessing of data set. The attributes like trestbps, cholesterol, tpeakbps and age are normalized and missing values are handled appropriately. The second phase is feature selection. The greedy hill climbing best first attribute evaluator is used to identify the subset of attributes based on its individual prediction ability. The third phase is comparison of prediction accuracy of different techniques in literature. Findings: The work has been evaluated using the performance metrics like accuracy, specificity, sensitivity, confusion matrix to prove the efficiency of different techniques. It was concluded that the Bagging algorithm achieved highest accuracy compared with other algorithms. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: Python, Java, C, C++, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript  Databases: Mongo DB, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Web Frameworks: Flask, Django, Spring  Tools: Git, SVN, MS Office suite  Libraries: Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Scikit learn  IDE: Py Charm, Jupyter Notebook, Eclipse  Operating Systems: Windows, Unix, Linux