Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer San Francisco, CA • Full Stack Python Developer with 5+ years of experience in SoftwareDevelopmentas a Web/Application Developer, server-side, backend and Front-end programming using Python 2.x and 3.x, Flask 1.0.2, Django 1.x, AutomationScripting, Testing and debugging, Software development life cycle.  • Expertise in Algorithms, Data Structures, Object Oriented Programming.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test-driven Development (TDD), Load Testing, API testing.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, UNIX, and Linux, socket programming.  • Developed MVC web-based applications using Python web frameworksFlaskandDjango.  • Experience on Data bases MYSQL, Big Query, Oracle.  • Expertise with python libraries NumPy, SciPy, Matplotliband Pandas.  • Experience in Test Driven Environment and python test tools PyTest, unittest, Pylint, pdb lib.  • Good knowledge on Network programming TCP, UDP, socket programming and ftp data transfers.  • Worked on WSGI server, Green Unicorn web server, and NGINX http server environment.  • Worked on Celery for task queue implementation and for running periodic tasks. Also experience with Advanced Message Queue Protocol (AMQP) RabbitMQ and Redis for caching backends.  • Experience on Google cloud Platform (GCP), Worked on Integrating google cloud to applications.  • Experienced in Python's modules like NumPy, regular expressions (Regex scripting), Web Scraping, collections, dates & times and OS modules.  • Experience in Object relational mapping (ORM's), database access with managers and querying.  • Experience with Version Control GIT, and SVN.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Circle CI, Docker.  • Developed Restful API's integrating web exe with Django and Python implementations with data exchange through JSON and XML formats.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Experience in Testing environment using Selenium, automation using python and bug tracking and issue tracking tools Bugzilla, and JIRA.  • Experience in Python Environments PyCharm, Anaconda, IDLE, Virtualenv, Sublime, Atom, Visual Studio.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills with efficient time management and result oriented attitude.  • Good interpersonal, very hands-on attitude and approach, Inquisitive, Self-determined to learn and improve. Work Experience Python Developer Sunrun Inc - San Francisco, CA April 2018 to March 2019 Sunrun is a pioneer of the solar-as-a service model which provides residential rooftop solar, storage and energy services, while reducing the amount of air pollution leading to a better, less expensive and cleaner way for families to power their homes. Our mission is creating a planet run by sun.  Roles and Responsibilities: • Worked with the Business Intelligence team and played a major role in developing backend python applications, DevelopedFlask based applications, developed innovative ways to ingest large data sets into Google cloud, also automated various jobs to load data from multiple sources to cloud.  • Tested the applications and developed automated process to perform various tests using PyTest.  • Developed backend applications to track performance issues of rooftop solar to help the business, logistics and process product usage data.  • Designed Data Flow pipelines with apache beam for transferring large data to Google cloud with Python., Integrated and used API's to the applicationand worked on Apache Spark.  • Tested the applications manually, performed functional testing, unit testing, regression Testing and debugging using pdb, tested the API's using postman.  • Worked on creating Multi-threading, Establishing Connection Pools while optimizing application performance and executing multiple tasks with python.  • Developed dashboards for tracking customer product performance issues, where I gained experience in developing frontend Web application using Flask 1.0.2, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Developed many automation scripts for Web Scraping, pattern matching, Requests, Task automation, integrated various API's, bash scripting.  • Done data migrations to load data from FTP Servers, google drive, and other sources to GCP BQ tables in google cloud storage using python. Developed reusable scripts to automate the process.  • Worked on data validation and data analysis, tools python libraries pandas, NumPy, matplotlib.  • Responsible for delivering the application on Time and introduced innovative methods to improve performance, quality and developed validated tests, solved issues as required.    Environment: Python 2.7, Python 3.6, Debian GNU/Linux v9, Google Cloud platform (GCP), PyTest, GCP, Big Query, Pandas, Apache Spark, Flask 1.0.2, bash scripting, GIT, postman, Docker, PyCharm, sublime. Python Developer DirecTV/ AT&T Entertainment Group - El Segundo, CA November 2017 to March 2018 Description: DirecTV (stylized as DIRECTV) is an American direct broadcast satellite service provider based in El Segundo, California and is a subsidiary of AT&T. Worked on Development of Application for Video Subscription on Demand, Live tracking of events, subscriber data analysis, keep track of user responses and customer feedback.    Responsibilities: • Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development, and implementation and testing while designing high performance and low latency application.  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture along with Django's ORM model.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python3.6 and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Worked on creating Connection Pools while optimizing application performance and executing multiple tasks with python and PostgreSQL.  • Developed API's, implemented authorization, making requests to various web servicesfor client requests with Django REST framework.  • Web crawler that runs the whole day indexing and tracking price changes, Generate generic activity streams from the actions on the site.  • Used Celery and RabbitMQ message broker for Asynchronous tasks, and for scheduling periodic tasks.  • Testing the application end to end, regression testing, unit testing, API testing using postman.  • Automated regular tasks, filtering data, pattern matching with regular expression and web scraping.  • Worked on various data format JSON, XML converting to python data and delivering better content.  • Used data manipulation libraries based on Pandas based on NumPy utilising various functions accessing, indexing, merging and grouping data easily using python3.6.  • A Django dashboard with a custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  • Worked on Data Frames handling large incoming data streams with pandas and plotting using matplotlib.  • For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems RESTful Web-Services were implemented.  • Collaborated with QA to build and populate DB and to ensure the standards.    Environment: Python 3.5/3.6, Python 2.7, Celery, RabbitMQ, Django 1.4, PostgreSQL, Java Script, HTML, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Git, Linux, PyCharm, Pandas, NumPy, JIRA. Software Developer, Intern and Contract PayPal, Inc - San Jose, CA October 2016 to October 2017 Description: PayPal Holdings, Inc. is an American company operating a worldwide online payments system thatsupports online money transfers and serves as an electronic alternative to traditional paper methods like checks and money orders. Developed an application that fetches the reports and other data from the website and fills that data into the respective tables into the database. Analysts can use that data to generate reports and other visualizations.  Responsibilities: • Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Designed budget spending analysis module to users based on their account usage, transactions and allowing users to set limits based on data analysis done by our application.  • Allowing payment authorizations through various services for our end clients.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package to retrieve information.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used MySQL as the backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Involved in design, implementation and modifying the Python code and MySQL database schema on-the-back end.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data into the database.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Used NumPy and Matplotlib libraries. Created bar charts using matplotlib library.  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, show cases, and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Worked on handling large array of user data and dedicated in plotting and analysingthat data using various data Frames and NumPy and SciPy Modules.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end-user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.    Environment: Python 3.6, MySQL dB, Shell Scripting, JSON, Matplotlib, NumPy, PyTest, Sublime, JIRA, GIT. Backend Engineer Sify Technologies Limited - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2013 to July 2015 Description: Sify Technologies Limited is an Indian information and communications technology company providing end to end ICT solutions including telecom services, data centre services, cloud & managed services, transformation integration services and application integration services.  Roles & Responsibilities: • Worked on Testing the application and automating the tasks with python scripts and improving the efficiency of the application.  • Worked on Data Processing and building backend applications increasing the efficiency of processing time and response.  • Used Python libraries for multiprocessing, API requests, SQLAlchemy, pandas, cxOracle etc.., • Testing the applications end to end and worked on complete application development regression testing, unit testing, functional testing, Integration testing etc • Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process by extending Django user model.  • Design develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and React that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Created a Python based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS.  • Wrote & executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector & MySQL dB package.  • Developed and designed automation script using Python and Bash.  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.    Environment: Python, MySQL, JSON, RESTful, Pandas, Machine Learning, Version One, Linux, Shell Scripting, , JavaScript, SQL, Putty (Linux) Education Master's in Electrical and Electronics Engineering California State University December 2016 Bachelor's in Electronics Gandhi Institute of Technology and Management (GITAM University) May 2013 Skills PYTHON (4 years), DJANGO (3 years), MYSQL (3 years), REST (3 years), BOOTSTRAP (3 years) Additional Information Technical skills:    Web Technologies JavaScript, CSS3, Bootstrap, HTML5.  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, urllib2, Tkinter, NLTK.  Python Web Frameworks Flask, Django, Django REST.  Database MySQL, SQLAlchemy, PostgreSQL, SQLite, Oracle Database,  Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix, MacOS, Ubuntu.  IDE Tools PyCharm, Sublime Text, Anaconda, Pip, Atom, IPython, Eclipse, PyQt, Visual Studio, Eclipse, Notepad++.  Web Services SOAP, REST.  Version Control SVN, GIT.  Web/App. Servers  WSGI, NGINX, Green Unicorn, Linode, WebSphere Application Server 8.0, Apache Tomcat, Web Logic 11g/ 12c, JBoss 4.x/5.x, Apache Drill.    CloudTechnologies Google cloud platform (GCP), Data flow modelling.