Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Sunnyvale, CA Ramyasri is an IT professional with more than 5.4 years of experience in software development in financial industry and coding with analytical programming using C/C++ and assembly programming holding good knowledge of all the phases of software development life cycle (SDLC).  Technology expertise includes:  • Working on a wide range of microcontrollers/ microprocessors such as 8051, 8086, ARM, PIC on embedded devices  • Knowledge in Shell Scripting using awk, sed, grep commands.  • Developing Macros in C/C++, templates  • Working on Client/Server, SQL Server and Web based applications with strong business understanding and knowledge of Order management systems  • Working with Data flow diagrams, Data dictionary, Database normalization theory techniques, Entity relation modeling and design techniques.  • Programming in C for the 16-bit Microchip 33FJ128MC802 microcontroller that implements a selectable cooperative/preemptive RTOS.  • Understanding and working with I2C, SPI, CAN, PWM, UART in both firmware and RTOSs driver development.  • Proficient in static analysis tools like cppCheck and Coverity. Caught many severe bugs before production releases  • Developing multithreaded network-based client-server applications  • Developing XML C++ SOAP web services on Unix and Linux platforms  • Programming Languages - Java and Prolog  • Serving as a Single Point of Responsibility for Software Development Life Cycle with accountability of requirement analysis, architectural design, technical design, creating POC, preparing/reviewing estimation, coding, holding technical discussion, implementation, defect fixing and tracking, maintenance and application enhancement  • Knowledge if voice/video application over wireless network. Developing with XML, JSON, TCP/IP, UDP/IP and multithreaded application using IPC mechanism  • Understanding of ITIL based Service Management including Change Management, Incident Management, memory management, Problem Resolution, Business Procedures and Workflows of various organizations  • Working as a point of escalation for Data Center and IT related issues. Ensuring technical and process architecture solutions are documented and designed to support business requirements Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Postmates March 2018 to Present Post mates    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing Table Management System replacement, dine time written in Django Flask and deployed to production Supported Table Management System web apps written in Django/Flask  • Working with large teams to support existing ETL framework written in python  • Using the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Developing dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks  • Working on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application  • Involving in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS for better appearance Java Programmer Analyst RWaltz Software Services Group Inc - Alpharetta, GA February 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for design, coding component and assembly testing of all application code owned by the Application Team.  • Designed and developed the search application for the online shopping - a web based search application that searches over thousands of products.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  • Designed and developed the RESTful API using Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Designed and developed the UI for the "Accounts in a Jiffy" application.  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Implemented REST service application with Spring Data and Spring JDBC Template in backend. Designed, developed and enhanced existing databases, emphasizing processing efficiencies and quality assurance.  • Experience in Writing SQL Queries for data validation at the row and table level, Multiple-Column Sub queries, Scalar Sub queries and correlated Sub queries.  • test plans to identify and resolve application issues.  • Covered the application with unit tests using JUnit  • Involved in testing, debugging, performance tuning, bugs fixing and documentation of the system. Java Application Developer/ programmer Analyst Bloomberg LP - Sterling, VA March 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for design, coding component and assembly testing of all application code owned by the Application Team  • Designed and developed the search application for the online shopping - a web based search application that searches over thousands of products  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  • Designed and developed the RESTful API using Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Designed and developed the UI for the "Accounts in a Jiffy" application  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Implemented RESTservice application with Spring Data and Spring JDBC Template in backend. Designed, developed and enhanced existing databases, emphasizing processing efficiencies and quality assurance.  • Experience in Writing SQLQueries for data validation at the row and table level, Multiple-Column Sub queries, Scalar Sub queries and correlated Sub queries.  • Test plans to identify and resolve application issues.  • Covered the application with unit tests using JUnit  • Involved in testing, debugging, performance tuning, bugs fixing and documentation of the system    Environment: Java 1.7, RAD 7.0, JSP, AngularJS, Spring, Solr, SolrJ, REST, SOAP, Oracle, MySQL, JSON, Maven, Python, WebSphere Application Server 7.0, Tortoise SVN, JIRA, Agile Methodology, Junit Python Developer Bloomberg LP - New York, NY January 2016 to January 2017 Environment: Java 1.7, RAD 7.0, JSP, AngularJS, Spring, Solr, SolrJ, REST, SOAP, Oracle, MySQL, JSON, Maven, Python, Web Sphere Application Server 7.0, Tortoise SVN, JIRA, Agile Methodology, Junit.  Bloomberg LP, New York, NY Jan 2016 - Jan 2017  Python Developer    Responsibilities:  * Worked as a part of a development team to implement Equity Order Management system to accept orders from UI, FIX, send/route to Exchanges and other broker dealers and fill the trades in C++ on Unix and Linux platforms  * Developed multithreaded cache offline program in C++ to support various UIs to deliver/process data for a scalable, high throughput, low latency applications  * Wrote C++ programs for end of day operations (EOD) to close or roll the orders  * Used STL extensively to store data on Order history, accounts, securities, etc. for fast retrieval/update  * Worked with users, business and exchanges to gather new requirements/ enhancements, testing and final delivery of sub systems  * Developed SOAP web services for order and trade related information to display on UI. Used proprietary MQ to subscribe to order and trade updates  * Designed UI screens using Bloomberg UI toolkit. Coded, tested business logic for UI in JavaScript, to validate user inputs, calling various web services for information retrieval and updates  * Used various data structures and design patterns in applications like Singleton, Observer, Factory methods etc.  * Handled corporate action events to reflect the order price and currently implementing the tick size changes  * Used C/C++ interface to retrieve/update info from/to the DB  * Developed/enhanced as part of team to compute commission calculations based on commission rules and generate PDF reports  * Modified C++ programs to support compliance rule automation for many compliance rules for client accounts for both pre-and post-trade compliance purposes and manage leverage using many metrics like industry exposure, security type, long/short positions, currency / securities / options / futures, credit ratings etc.  * Wrote various SQL stored procedures to compute several metrics like realized/unrealized gain/loss, forex rate effect etc and other data manipulation  * Used Python scripts to generate various reports like OATS, P&L, transaction history, user privileges, limit rules and commission schedule reports  * Used SVN and git/GitHub for source code control  * Followed Agile and Scrum Methodologies Java Programmer RWaltz Software Services Group Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2015 to August 2016 Project Title: Inferred Password Authentication System  • Objective of the project is to maintain Password security system and to maintain the project safe and secure. To protect the password safe and secure and in the authentication system by creating many security questions in the system, and maintain the password secure using Java application.  • We focus only on "what you know type" authentication. We propose our Inferred Password Authentication System. IPAS is similar to the pass point scheme with some finer differences.  • In IPAS, We consider the password as a piece of information known to the server at the time of registration and at the time of authentication, the user give this information in an inferred form that can be understood only by the server.  • The main aim of the project is to maintain the security of the password, the security questions will be asked to maintain the password security.  • It keeps the system safe and protects the password by hacking by others and keeps the data protected from the system.  • Tools & Languages Used: Html, Server side Programs is JSP, Scripting language is Java Script, Data Base is MY SQL, Server is Tomcat5.5/6.0. Let's Gift.Inc 2012 to 2012 Order Management  • Let's Gift.Inc is the largest organization around the globe. It has many products for the customers, out of which we have selected some of the most innovative, expensive and expertise  • products, to analyze the sales report of the organization.  • SQL Management studio- Enterprise edition 2012. Education Masters of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Virginia International University - Fairfax, VA December 2016 Bachelors of Engineering in Computer Science JNTU 2015 Skills AIX (Less than 1 year), C+ (1 year), Cadence (Less than 1 year), CVS (Less than 1 year), databases (1 year), DB2 (Less than 1 year), design patterns (1 year), Frameworks (1 year), FUELS (Less than 1 year), Java (3 years), JavaScript (2 years), JIRA (1 year), Linux (1 year), Oracle (1 year), Python (3 years), SOAP (1 year), SQL (3 years), Subversion (1 year), SVN (1 year), web services (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages & Scripts C, C++, Python, Core Java, shell, JavaScript    Operating Systems Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Ubuntu  Version Control GIT/ GitHub, SVN, CVS  Protocols TCP/IP, UDP, CAN, SNMP, KWP2000, LIN, RS 232, GMLAN, KWP  Databases Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, IBM DB2, SQLite and MongoDB  Libraries & Frameworks  STL, BDE, IPC, multithreading, sockets, heap allocators, signals/event handling, SOAP web services, Software Design OOP/OOD, Design Patterns, Google Test, Google Mock, Quick FIX    Build Bitbake, Yocto, Jenkins, cppCheck, Coverity  Tools emacs, eclipse, UML tools, MS-Office, splunk, JIRA, OpenGrok  Simulation Tools Verifix, Labview, Cadence, Pspice, Hspice, Synopsys, Xilinx, dSPACE HIL