Python Developer (Contract) <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Contract) Python Developer Remote Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer (Contract) PNC Financial Services Group - Charlotte, NC November 2018 to Present Contract python developer role with PNC's code auditing team. I audit projects, make sure their code matches requirements, test the code, rewrite the code when needed and submit a report with my findings. Developer/ Co-founder Swapblocks Inc April 2018 to Present Python, Javascript, Nginx, Gunicorn, Django, API, Cryptography April 2018-Present  ? Designed and built a django ICO submission portal  ? Launched and maintained a DPOS blockchain network  ? Designed crypto architecture for maintaining records between organizations  ? Used Nginx and Gunicorn for deployment of applications on ubuntu servers  ? Utilized the swapblocks blockchain api  ? Utilized a javascript based blockchain Python Developer (Contract) Xenial, A Global Payments Company February 2018 to July 2018 Working on a cloud based ETL system for upgrading enterprise clients from  SQL based databases to Mongodb format.  ? ETL system ran on AWS lambda, was triggered by Kinesis streams and sent  SNS notifications throughout the process  ? Built an info api using API gateway and AWS lambda Data Consultant (Contract) Bank of America Corporate Treasury January 2017 to February 2018 Designed and developed Python applications to improve business processes and eliminate manual work  ? Created and maintained data quality rules in SQL that monitor databases for anomalies Software Support Engineer SSI Schaefer Systems International October 2015 to September 2016 ORACLE, SQL, PL/SQL, Predictive Analytics, Robotic Automation Systems Oct 2015 - Sept 2016    ? Implemented machine learning techniques to reduce the time needed to find patterns in large sets of robotic metadata needed for troubleshooting by 90%  ? Utilized Python to automate daily task, clean data and optimize internal tools Skills Python (4 years), Blockchain (1 year), Cryptocurrency (2 years), Javascript (1 year), SQL (5 years) Links https://goo.gl/vUZRbk https://links.swapblocks.io Additional Information I am looking for a remote a job