Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - BePress Emeryville, CA 3+ years experience in designing, developing and maintaining web-based enterprise applications using Python and Django.  ? Hands on experience in designing web applications using Swift and JAVA.  ? Experienced in working with Reg-Ex, complicated List comprehensions and various built-in functions like map, filter etc.  ? Extensive experience in integration, debugging, design, analysis and implementation.  ? Strong knowledge with REST API development and using debugging tools like JIRA.  ? Experienced using various Python libraries to speed up development (Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries)  ? Expertise in creating web-based application using various technologies like Angular JS, JavaScript, AJAX, J-Query, Bootstrap, HTML5, and CSS3.  ? Experienced in working with various IDE's using NetBeans, PyCharm and Eclipse.  ? Expert knowledge and experience in Object-oriented Design and Programming concepts.  ? Experience in working in agile scrum development methodology.  ? Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments.  ? Flexible and versatile to adapt to new- environment and technologies Work Experience Python Developer BePress - Berkeley, CA January 2018 to Present Description:  Digital Commons is the only comprehensive showcase that lets institutions publish, manage, and increase recognition for everything produced on campus - and the only institutional repository and publishing platform that integrates with a full faculty research and impact suite.  Responsibilities:  ? Used Test driven (TDD) approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Pytest Framework.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used Py-test for writing test cases.  ? Increased test coverage by writing test cases for several modules  ? Upgraded the project from Django 1.4 version to 1.11  ? Responsible for debugging, testing, maintaining and deploying the application.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Also, used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  ? Built all database mapping classes using Django models.  ? Involved in development of RESTful Web Services for getting and sending data from the external interface in the JSON format.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the main applications that were sources of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Python, Django, Pytest, Docker, Jenkins, GIT, REST, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, XML, Jira, Agile, PostgreSQL, Solr and Redis. Software Developer Capital One - Plano, TX June 2017 to December 2017 Description:  Capital One is one of the world's largest financial institutions, serving individuals, small and middle market businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management services. This project helps to timely monitor and respond to the reports and keep an active check on different transactions.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed Application based on the Django MVT Framework using MVT design pattern.  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Developed the REST API using Django for fetching the data from NoSQL MongoDB database.  ? Updated External Dependencies to the current django version  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Used several python libraries like numPY, Pandas and matPlotLib.  ? Built all database mapping classes using Django models.  Environment: Python, Django, numPY, Pandas, AWS, JSON, REST, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, XML, SOAP, Jira, Agile, SQL, MYSQL, MongoDB and Windows. Research Assistant Northwest Missouri State University - Maryville, MO August 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Design online and Paper prototypes for Disaster Management System  ? Conduct post and pre-survey's of the designed system Software Developer Ananth Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Used NumPy, Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  Environment: Python, NumPy, Pandas, Django, HTML, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Eclipse. Education Master of Science in Applied Computer Science in Applied Computer Science Northwest Missouri State University - Maryville, MO January 2016 to April 2017 Technology Institute of Aeronautical Engineering - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 Skills DJANGO (2 years), JSON (2 years), PYTHON (2 years), XML (2 years), AJAX (2 years), Javascript, Flask Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Python 3.x, 2.x, Java, Swift, C, VHDL, Verilog  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, JavaScript, Jquery, JSON, XML, Bootstrap  Tools/IDE PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, Jupiter Note-Book, X-Code  Frameworks Django framework  RDBMS MySQL  NoSQL MongoDB  Repositories GIT, BitBucket  Container tools Docker community edition and enterprise  Build tool Jenkins  Bug Tracking Tools JIRA, RALLY  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Mac OSX