Data Scientist Data Scientist Data Scientist - DaVita Kidney Care Merrimack, NH + Over 4+ years of IT industry experience encompassing in Machine Learning, Datamining with large datasets of Structured and Unstructured data, Data Acquisition, Data Validation, Predictive modeling, Data Visualization.  + Extensive experience in Text Analytics, developing different statistical machine learning, Datamining solutions to various business problems and generating data visualizations using R, Python, and Tableau.  + Experience with Machine learning techniques and algorithms (such as k-NN, Naive Bayes, etc.)  + Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  + Extensively worked on statistical analysis tools and adept at writing code in Advanced Excel, R, MATLAB, Python.  + Experienced the full software lifecycle in SDLC, Agile and Scrum methodologies.  + Implemented deep learning models and numerical Computation with the help of data flow graphs using Tensor Flow Machine Learning.  + Skilled in using dplyr and pandas in R and python for performing Exploratory data analysis.  + I'm a result oriented and self-motivated individual who can adapt to the fast-changing industry.  + Experience in Discovery of data, cleansing of the data, collecting data and retrieve data using MySQL.  + Analysis of data from loggers and trend data from building management systems. Exploring several types of Regression, ANOVA, Hypothesis Testing and correlation between the data using Minitab (Statistical Software) and R.  + Proficient knowledge of statistics, mathematics, machine learning, recommendation algorithms and analytics with an excellent understanding of business operations and analytics tools for effective analysis of data.  + Familiar on Deep learning projects for image identification CNN, RNN for stock price prediction autoencoders for Movie Recommender System (PyTorch), Image captioning (CNN-RNN autoencoder architecture). Work Experience Data Scientist DaVita Kidney Care - Denver, CO October 2018 to Present Analyzed large datasets apply machine learning techniques and developed predictive models, statistical models and developing and enhanced statistical models.  + Used Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Scikit-learn, in Python for developing various machine learning algorithms and utilized machine learning algorithms such as linear regression, Random Forests, LSTM, & RNN for data analysis.  + Developed RNN models for predicting the current hemoglobin level of the patients for the ninety first day.  + Built LSTM and ANN models for predicting the loss.  + Used Jenkins pipeline to run and deploy the code.  + Used Jupyter Notebook for deploying locally.  + Have used the tools Kibana, and Bit-Bucket as repository.  + Have done Feature selection and avoiding Missing values used Supervised Learning such as Linear Regression, Random Forest.  + Conducted studies, rapid plots and using advance data mining and statistical modelling techniques to build a solution that optimize the quality and performance of data. Data Scientist/ Machine Learning Engineer UNITED HEALTH GROUP - Minneapolis, MN September 2017 to September 2018 Provided the architectural leadership in shaping strategic, business technology projects, with an emphasis on application architecture.  + Participated in all phases of data mining, data collection, data cleaning, developing models, validation, and visualization and performed Gap analysis.  + Used Pandas, NumPy, seaborn, SciPy, Matplotlib, Scikit-learn, NLTK in Python for developing various machine learning algorithms and utilized machine learning algorithms such as linear regression, multivariate regression, naive Bayes, Random Forests, K-means, & KNN for data analysis.  + Analyzed large data sets apply machine learning techniques and develop predictive models, statistical models and developing and enhancing statistical models by leveraging best-in-class modeling techniques.  + Conducted studies, rapid plots and using advance data mining and statistical modelling techniques to build a solution that optimize the quality and performance of data.  + Developed MapReduce/Spark Python modules for machine learning & predictive analytics in Hadoop on AWS. Implemented a Python-based distributed random forest via Python streaming.  + Developed MapReduce/Spark Python modules for machine learning & predictive analytics in Hadoop on AWS.  + Utilized Spark, Scala, Hadoop, HBase, Kafka, Spark Streaming, MLlib, Python, a broad variety of machine learning methods including classifications, regressions, dimensionally reduction etc. Python Developer MYNTRA - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2013 to July 2015 Worked on the project from gathering requirements to developing the entire application.  + Worked on Anaconda Python Environment.  + Created, activated and programmed in Anaconda environment.  + Wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  + Wrote python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  + Extensive experience in Text Analytics, developing different Statistical Machine Learning, Data mining solutions to various business problems and generating data visualizations using R, Python and Tableau. Used with other packages such as Beautiful Soup for data parsing.  + Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL  + Design and build a text classification application using different text classification models.  + Used Jira for defect tracking and project management  + Involved in Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile SCRUM meetings  + Performed QA testing on the application. Python Developer CMC - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to January 2013 • Designed and developed the user interface of the project with HTML, CSS and JavaScript   • Written Python Scripts to parse the XML documents and load the data in database.   • Client-side validations and manipulations are done using JavaScript and JQuery  • Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  • Responsible for Debugging and troubleshooting the application. • Utilized Subversion control tool to coordinate team work. • Used Selenium Libraries to write fully functioning test automation process. Education MBA in FINANCE and MARKETING Acharya Academy of Management Studies 2013 to 2015 BACHELOR OF TECHNOLOGY in ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING Usha Rama College of Engineering and Technology 2008 to 2012 Skills PYTHON (3 years), MATPLOTLIB (1 year), NUMPY (3 years), MACHINE LEARNING (3 years), SQL (2 years), Visio, Business Intelligence, Microsoft Office, Excel, HTML, testing, Deep Learning (1 year), NLP (Less than 1 year), Tensorflow (Less than 1 year), PyTorch (Less than 1 year), Regression (1 year), Random Forest (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  LANGUAGES C, Data Structures, Python, R, SQL, MATLAB  PYTHON LIBRARIES NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Scikitlearn, keras, PyTorch, Tensorflow  DEVELOPMENT IDE Jupyter Notebook, Spyder, PyCharm  MACHINE LEARNING Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, SVM, Naive Bayes, KNN  RNN, Deep Learning  ALGORITHMS K-Means, Random Forest, Dimensionality Regression Algorithms