Machine Learning Intern Machine Learning Intern Peoria, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Machine Learning Intern Cactus Materials - Tempe, AZ June 2017 to Present Developed a biometric identification system using vital sign data and a proprietary sensor. Personally developed the prototype, complete with a web API, mobile app, and machine learning algorithms on the backend. Python Developer Cyber Socio Intelligent Systems Lab - Tempe, AZ August 2016 to Present I work with graduate students to create code for gathering information about security threats on the dark web and other  relevant sources. In addition, I maintain the existing code base we have and bring it up to date with the latest standards. I also transitioned to writing my thesis under the head of the lab, Dr. Shakarian. Worked entirely in Python on Ubuntu Linux. Python Developer Mayo Clinic - Tempe, AZ June 2017 to September 2017 Refactored the MRI 3D measurement and registration system under the supervision of post-doc researchers. Project was  entirely in Python, developed under OSX, and deployed on Arch Linux. Approx 1000 lines of code. Research Assistant Texas State University - San Marcos, TX June 2016 to August 2016 Conducted research into Internet of Things frameworks with two other researchers under Dr. Anne Ngu. We created a JS  platform on Android for detecting falls in the elderly using a Bluetooth smart watch and machine learning. We presented  our results before a panel of industry experts and published a paper @ The International Conference for Smart Health. Research Programmer Center for Cognitive Ubiquitous Computing - Tempe, AZ August 2014 to May 2015 Worked on software and hardware projects with graduate students and other undergraduate researchers. Projects  included working with Microsoft Kinect API to track body movement and creating a software interface for Wii Balance  Boards to track distribution of body weight. Education BS in Computer Systems Engineering Arizona State University-Tempe - Tempe, AZ 2014 to Present Skills LINUX (3 years), PYTHON (4 years), Machine Learning (1 year), Cloud Computing (2 years), Research (3 years) Publications Fall Detection using Smartwatch Sensor Data with Accessor Architecture 2017-05 We describe our platform and software for using Support Vector Machines to detect falls in the elderly using a smart watch and an extensible Javascript application on Android. Additional Information Continuously employed as a programmer for over 12 months while still in school.