PYTHON Developer <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> PYTHON Developer - Value Labs Work Experience PYTHON Developer Value Labs April 2017 to Present Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating system Windows Family ¸Ubuntu  Languages Python, Oracle Sql  Python Libraries Json, XML, CSV, Web Scraping  Web Technologies Html, Css  Framework Django  DBMS Oracle Database  Tools Pycharm, Jupyter Notebook, ATOM    Project#2: BUS24    Project Brief  Bus24 is a software application. The main purpose of this application is providing the online bus ticket booking for customers our application we can provides different types of buses categories like Volvo, AC or Non AC, Super luxury etc for online booking .In our application we can manage all types of Passenger data & bus data. All details that is related to Travelling like fare details, Seat availability, Booking details, bus details, seating arrangements, bus inquiry etc. The main modules being contained in this project are Booking Module, User Module, and Customer Support Module. And it contains some of the Roles in the project they are Super Admin Role, Travel Admin Role, Agent Role, Passenger Role and Customer Support Role.    Role Python Developer  Environment Pycharm, Windows  Roles & Responsibilities  ? Responsible for developing web-based application and server side applications by using django frame work  ? In involving developing buses login  ? I created model classes for converting python object to Database Object  ? In the involving same business logic for sending mails to customers . when customer booking the ticket  ? I involved in modules using python required for the project  ? I am providing security for my application  ? I involved in handled the exception  ? I involved in forms writing programmatically and handle the form validations  ? Involved in understanding the application and implementing business logic  ? Writing the queries using oracle database  ? I am involved In Object relational Mapping techniques.