Python Backend Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Backend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Backend Developer • Experience in Software System Design, Development, Analysis and Integration of standalone and web applications.  • Strong Experience developing applications using C #, visual studio MVC framework.  • Experience in developing the front end user interfaces using HTML5, Bootstrap, and JQuery.  • Experience with different Java Technologies (Core Java, Swing, Applets, RMI, Servlets, and JDBC).  • Strong in requirement analysis, functional specification design and documentation.  • Adept at handling multiple tasks and learning new technical skills quickly.  • Good corporate image, Excellent Interpersonal and Communication skills.  • Proven record of developing excellent working relationships with colleagues, clients. Work Experience Python Backend Developer Florida Blue - Jacksonville, FL August 2017 to July 2018 • Developed backend modules using Python on Visual Studio Web Framework using Gitlab.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into Mongo database and Worked on Mongo DB data lineage process to map source to target DB, table and column mappings using OO Python.  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application and Used the python Programming Language to refactor and redesign the legacy databases.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval and Automation of various administrative tasks on multiple servers using DevOps. Graduate Research Assistant Bellevue University January 2016 to May 2017 • Design and Implementation of web based projects, Game applications  • Tutor undergraduate courses such as C, C++, Java, HTML, Python, DBMS and Networking  • Administering students with the laboratory assignments and homework assignments  • Maintain department website. Help Professors in their research work Applications Developer IQ Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to November 2015 • Worked with HTML, Java, Ajax, Java Script, XML, XSL and SQL Database  • Interact closely with HR and pay roll teams gathering requirements and developing new automated applications or enhance existing applications  • Create test data, develop and execute basic test scripts using the functional phase requirements  • Responsible for delivery of quality and timely applications by leveraging modern design principles and testing methodologies Research Assistant Jawaharlal Nehru University - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2013 to May 2014 • Worked in .NET environment using C #, Visual C++, MFC and Visual Basic  • Responsible for Documenting, Designing, Implementing, Debugging User Interface for boards designed to test read channels, SoCs  • Responsible for creating an interface between Visual C++ application, C# and PYTHON    ? Legally authorized to work in the US without sponsorship. References available upon request. Education Master of Science in Computer and Information System Bellevue University May 2017 Skills PYTHON (3 years), JAVA (2 years), .NET (1 year), SQL (1 year), APACHE (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skill Set:  • C # .NET  • SQL Server  • Apache    • VB.NET  • MVC  • HTML5    • Java  • JavaScript  • Python    • UNIX  • Microsoft Office Applications  • LINUX Hosting