CEO/CTO CEO/CTO CEO/CTO - Enuda Learn LLC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CEO/CTO Enuda Learn LLC 2016 to Present • Built Educational Web application using Python, Django, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, CSS and more.  • Sole developer responsible for entire lifecycle of enudalearn.com and day-to-day software development and devOp • Debugged errors and developed a framework for preventing and handling disruption of service to users • Developed a behavioral grading system for in-class behavior, attendance, and more, and integrated the grading system with EngradePro, a professional educational management app • Implemented dual-language feature (English and Chinese) • Responsible for continuous integration and automation of deployment • Integrated with Stripe Payment services • Deployed several environments for staging, deployment, and production using technologies including Amazon Beanstalk RDS, EC2, S3, bash scripts, and fabric3 • Wrote automated bash scripts for provisioning a server and deployment prior to switching to Elastic Beanstalk • Wrote automated bash scripts for handling persistence storage and backups prior to relying on Amazon RDS • Integrated a Python IDE third-party API for users to run code in.  • Created a system of checking the correctness of users' Python code entered into the site Python IDE using unittests.  • Implemented chat feature where students can send messages to each other and to the teacher.  • Designed original mockups • Hired and managed the designer for the professional mockup and a front-end programmer for the original professional HTML/CSS/JS assets • Integrated original HTML/CSS/JS assets into Django app and did all other revisions thereafter • Created, filmed, and edited all programming content and videos on website • Environment: Python 3.6, Django, Nginx, PostgreSQL, Gunicorn, and more.  • Designed and implemented all features on the website Freelance Python Developer July 2015 to September 2018 • Consulted with several clients about their Business Idea/Web-App • Developed and Deployed Mock-ups for Clients Python Developer Enuda Learn LLC - Atlanta, GA July 2016 to February 2017 • Created JSON API for a backend for a mobile app • Integrated with third party APIs • Interacted with several AWS services like S3 and EC2. GoalGit - Atlanta, GA March 2016 to February 2017 • Created a Flask social media app where users post their statuses (what they are doing) with a picture and associate it with related Goals and Goal Action Plans.  • Created a Liking system where users can like others posts and goals.  • Utilized JQuery to add interactivity and to make AJAX calls to back-end JSON API.  • Created a Follow system where users can follow other users and have their posts appear in their stream.  • Did 100% of the web-design using CSS, Twitter Bootstrap, and JavaScript.  • Environment: Python 3.4, JavaScript, AJAX, Flask. (Currently being rewritten in Django, using Django Rest Framework to build the API and AngularJS to consume it.) Information Communication & Technology Member & Trainer Beijing, CN September 2014 to April 2016 • Led over 50 training sessions where I trained Africa 2.0 members and non-members on Python and web development.  • Led training sessions in Mandarin Chinese for local Beijingers teaching them Python.  • Created training curriculum for operating in Linux, Git, Python, Flask, Django, and front-end web-design (HTML, CSS, JavaScript/JQuery, Bootstrap). Lawbot - Beijing, CN March 2014 to March 2015 • Created a Software Licensing Agreement where users select options and it allows them to generate the full terms and agreement of a software licensing agreement (lawbot.kaluekalu.com/licensing_agreement).  • Scraped public websites to create a database of over 3000 legal words.  • Created an automatic legal term search where users can copy and paste a legal contract or any other legal document and lawbot will automatically find and define all the pertinent legal terms in the document. (lawbot.kaluekalu.com).  • Created a patent law quiz where Chinese Patent Examiners can register, log in, and be tested on patent law concepts and keep track of their scores (lawbot.kaluekalu.com/final_exam_quiz).  • Created a Patent Law resource where Chinese Patent Examiners can be trained on American Patent law (lawbot.kaluekalu.com/patent_law_index).  • Used Python to scrape patent websites to determine who the most prolific patent inventor for a given company is.  • Environment: Python 2.7, JavaScript, Flask Education Juris Doctorate in High-Tech Certificate SANTA CLARA UNIVERSITY, School of Law, Santa Clara December 2012 Bachelor of Psychology in English TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY - Lubbock, TX August 1998