Graduate Research Assistant Graduate Research Assistant Graduate Research Assistant - Information Technology and Systems Center Huntsville, AL Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Graduate Research Assistant Information Technology and Systems Center - Huntsville, AL August 2016 to Present Implemented real-time disaster notification service using Django, ZeroMQ and Celery.  ? Created a rule-matching engine to run user intended service on event match.  ? Handled event sources such as Earthquake and Hurricane. Associate Software Developer LogPoint A/S - Kathmandu, NP August 2014 to August 2016 ? Developed a high-performance log collector and forwarder engine for Windows and Linux, known as LogPoint Agent (LPA), using C and C++.  ? Collected logs from sources like Windows Process, Windows Service, Windows Registry, Windows Event Management and File System for LPA.  ? Improved the log collection speed to 70K logs/sec.  ? Made installers of LPA for windows using WiX.  ? Developed a module known as "Threat Intelligence", using Python and ZeroMQ, to consume and forward the threat data.  ? Added support for threat intelligence services such as Emerging Threats, Critical Stack Intel and HailaTAXII.  ? Prototyped a TAXII client to consume the STIX/CyboX documents.  ? Developed "ODBC Fetcher" module to asynchronously fetch data from various databases and added support for getting only the latest data from the databases. Python/Django Developer Acubor LLC - Kathmandu, NP November 2013 to August 2014 ? Developed and maintained Accment, an online Accounting website.  ? Created new components for the website using KnockoutJS. Education Masters of Science in Computer Science University of Alabama in Huntsville - Huntsville, AL August 2016 to December 2017 Bachelors of Engineering in Computer Engineering Institute of Engineering January 2009 to October 2013 Skills DJANGO (2 years), C++ (2 years), DATABASES (3 years), PYTHON (4 years), C (1 year) Links https://github.com/mesarvagya https://linkedin.com/in/mesarvagya Additional Information SKILLS    Programming Languages: C/C++ (Proficient), Python (Proficient).  Databases: MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Sqlite, eXistDB, Redis.  Web development: Django, Flask, KnockoutJS, Javascript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Drupal8 (Intermediate).  Others: ZeroMQ, Celery, Boost.ASIO, Keras, Libev, Scikit-learn.