Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer • More than 3 years of experience in analysis, design, and development of applications using software development methodologies,  APIs and frameworks.  • Experience in complete Software Development Life Cycle and in software methodologies like Waterfall, Agile, Scrum.  • Experience in development of web and window based forms in the UI layer.  • Good Knowledge in software based tools to assist in development and testing.  • Extensively worked with stored procedures, triggers, in SQL Server.  • Extensively worked on RestAPI.  • Expertise in front-end database programming using Python, PHP, on linux, Unix.  • Good Knowledge of Active directory management and scheduling users using Python, PHP, R, .NET.  • Experienced in creating plugins and windows services.  • Good Knowledge in Big Data implemented, created, validated statistical models.  • Good Knowledge in Excel functions pivots, vlookups, array formulas.  • Implemented statistical concepts clustering, regression, mixed model, Bayesian methods, scikit, pandas in machine learning. Work Experience Software Developer Indepth April 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities:    • Developed and maintained a variety of applications that drive our business and support our consulting staff for (USA based  client project).  • Followed Work with other Software Developers to deliver the high quality products in a timely and cost-effective manner using  issue tracker ASANA to focus upon best quality.  • Conducted support, troubleshooting, designing, debugging, verification and validation assistance to resolve issues that arise.  • Executed related documentation, describe product requirements and scope along with several additional features with the team  size of 10.  • Conducted Assistance with releases to QA and production environments.  • Developed the multi-platform app module with material design standards using JQuery Mobile, AJAX, PhoneGap and Cordova  tools and deployable on Web, Android and iOS platforms.  • Tested the compatibility on 10 devices with varied screen sizes and five web browsers for both mobile and desktop.  RAJENDRA GURJAR (862) 215-3477  rgurjar@my.bridgeport.edu    • Created Indepth site to analyze and explore the system of thought of a contemporary thinker, musician from a historical & philosophical perspective.    Application Developer: Take2 technologies  Project: GuestHouse  Responsibilities:    • Conducted code review, assisted colleagues on best practices and issued tracker Trello to focus upon best quality.  • Gathered business requirements and feedback from business and IT colleagues.  • Produced systems and process documentation for business and IT.  • Created and executed GuestHouse application for room and food bookings for the visitors or employees of the Hindustan Zinc  Limited.  • Developed and implemented Biometric entries used for employee's verification.  • Implemented Tableau to get the dataset of employees working in particular region.  • Implemented CMS packages Wordpress. Intern, Software Developer May 2014 to December 2014 Project: Search Engine  Responsibilities:    • Developed web application to fetch data from StackOverflow using Interpolation Algorithm and to save it into Excel sheets, PDF for the use of industry purpose.  • Implemented PHP and Apache Xampp server to fetch data using Codeigniter Framework MVC (model, view, controller).    PROJECTS  Title: PYTHON-STOCK-DATA-WIKI(Machine Learning, Tensor flow)  Objective: developed and maintained Project to import data from Quadl using proper functioning along with library modules  numpy and pandas for the futuristic output of stock market.  Technologies: Python 3.5, Pycharm.    Title: PYTHON-SVM(Machine Learning)  Objective: developed and maintained Project using Algorithm Support Vector Machine(binary classifier) and Implemented to separate two groups of data from dataset of breast cancer wisconsin using scikit  Technologies: Python 3.5, Pycharm.    Title: PYTHON-PAINT-GUI  Objective: Paint is an application outputs draw, create shapes and assign some events to the created objects. This project  allows to create an MS Paint similar application using Python. PYTHON-HOSTSCANNER-GUI Pycharm Community Addition February 2017 Objective: Implemented Python 3.5 to create a CGI/GUI program (using ttkinter) that can be used for scanning open ports at any IP  address.  Technologies: Python 3.5, Pycharm Community Addition 2017.2.3, Apache24, SQLlite3.    Title: CLASS-ROOM-RESERVATION-SYSTEM  Objective: designed and deployed Classroom-reservation system to store data using AWS(Amazon Web Services) and Django for models, views.  Technologies: Python 3.5, Pycharm, Django-Framework. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Bridgeport Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering Rajasthan Technical University Skills ANDROID (2 years), jQuery (2 years), EXCEL (Less than 1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year), .NET (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS    Programming Languages: Python3.5, Scala, PHP, Java, C++, .NET, Node.js  Databases: SQL, MySQL, Google Cloud Platform, AWS, SQLlite3  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux Ubuntu 16.04  Technologies: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular JS, Jquery, Scikit, NPM  DevOps skills: Git, OpenStack  Frameworks: Ionic, Android, Laravel, Codeigniter, Django  Big Data Technologies: Spark, Hadoop, Pandas  Tools: PyCharm, Notepad++, Atom, IDLE 3, VS2015/13/10, Microsoft Excel, Word, Wireshark