Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> To obtain a challenging position in an ambitious organization where I can contribute and learn various approaches to  problem-solving and work with diversified environments for better project completion. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer February 2016 to February 2016 A Business Continuity Plan is a series of steps that at its core, is designed to help businesses recoup from the damage and continue to normal functioning until everything is settled.Cyber threats are potential dangers that damage the system, corrupt or destroy the valuable information.These are also called breaches or computer threats.Risk  assessment is the process of identifying the potential dangers and creating and modifying the BCP in order to suit the change.The US department of commerce\'s \'National Institute of Standards and Technology\' has given a few  frameworks and best practices concerning Business continuity plans from ISO, PCI, COBIT, HIPAA, HITECH and NIST.  Some of the methodologies that these organizations provide are ISO/IEC 27000 and HITRUST security  frameworks.Apply on Company Site. Implemented innovative systems for data collection, storage, and management of customer orders. Performed regression and system-level testing to verify software quality and function before it was  released. Web Developer Intern SunXchange Management Consultants Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh June 2013 to November 2013 Hyderabad, India  Involved in creating a website layout and user interface in HTML5 and CSS3.  Evaluated Code ensuring proper structure and maintained its compliance with industry standards.  Actively participated in client meetings and gathered requirements in all phases of project development.  Drafted comprehensive reports to document bugs and design flaws. Computer Lab Assistant Intern Sphoorthy Engineering College - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2011 to November 2012 Hyderabad, India  Identified, analyzed and resolved technical issues on varied packages in Python, tools, and applications.  Assisted lecturers on numerous projects relating to web development and provided guidance to junior students on their assignments.    projects  Python data Integration and Pre-Positioning  May 2016 Designed a software system that migrates the critical user information from a CSV to a Database.Built-in Class  attributes, Class Decorators and OOPs inheritance were majorly used The program access a BZ2 compressed file to  CSV format and generate the database using SQL Made use of packages such as PyMySQL, CSV, BZ2, glob, openly,  XPS writer Implementation was achieved in an effective way by deploying remote servers. OOPs were used  effectively in managing different modules of the program.    Messenger on Android  August 2015 Designed a messenger app on android using Eclipse & android SDK. The goal of this application is to enable two  android devices to send messages to each other and store the messages as a database in SQL.Used android  programming with the assistance of Socket programming to transfer the message from one device to another over transmission control protocol with the employment of Java Socket API.All this was programmed in Eclipse IDE.Made  use of android Widgets for customizing notifications to indicate when the user gets the message  research papers  Web Application Development Using Python  December 2015 The aim of the research done is to understand the various steps and setbacks one might encounter in web  development with a simple yet powerful scripting language like Python.In the research, details study on Django, Flask  frameworks.It was identified that Django provides better productivity over other web development by allowing the user take control of only the business logic and automate the other nontrivial undertakings.On the Other hand, Flask  has been understood as a micro-framework that originated from WerkZueg and Jinja 2.For database access, it was  found that SQL server would be an easier implementation.As part of testing, the regression testing was studied. Education Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering New York Institute of Technology - New York, NY May 2016 Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Communication Engineering Sphoorthy Engineering College - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2014 Additional Information skills  Skilled in Python 3, Django, Flask, HTML5, Angular JS, Good efficiency in business tools like preparing Gant  CSS3. charts, using MS Access, MS Project and MS Excel.  Skilled in Object Oriented Programming Ability to effectively communicate with team and play  Proficient knowledge in database systems such as a lead in handling critical situations.  Oracle PL/SQL, MySQL.  Efficient in creating and managing of SQL Queries,  triggers, functions, stored procedures and cursors.  Skilled in SDLC: cost-benefit analysis, project charter,  analysis, and demand-supply with proper project  management using PMBOK.