Full Stack Django Developer Full Stack Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> EOP Engineer - US Naval Observatory Washington, DC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Django Developer IMS, Inc. - Calverton, MD May 2017 to Present • Developed and maintained government websites such as biolincc.nhlbi.gov and neurobiobank.nih.gov.  • Implemented pages with a stack including JQuery, HTML, CSS, Django, Elasticsearch, PostgreSQL and Apache.  • Took new features all the way from requirements-gathering through coding, testing and releasing to production systems. Programmer US Naval Observatory - Washington, DC September 2015 to November 2016 • Improved Fortran 95 codebases responsible for computing "Earth orientation parameters", the results of which are used in Navy GPS systems.  • Overhauled and updated the public facing websites of the Earth Orientation division at USNO.  • Automated processes using Python and Bash to generate data products regularly and without intervention. Python Developer Research Scholars Program - Reston, VA June 2014 to September 2015 • Developed Python programs to parse large amounts of raw data from pressure sensors in the Atlantic.  • Applied Fourier analysis and linear wave theory to implement algorithms that convert water pressure readings into statistical data about wave height and frequency. Research Assistant George Mason University - Fairfax, VA May 2014 to May 2015 • Developed software in IDL to analyze the Hinode satellite's images with funding from the Undergraduate Research Scholars Program, an internal grant at Mason.  • Investigated the velocity of plasma in coronal loops to help discriminate between different models of coronal heating, and presented the research at the 2015 National Conference on Undergraduate Research. Education BS in Physics George Mason University - Fairfax, VA May 2015 Skills Javascript, Python Links http://cmazzullo.github.com Additional Information Proficient with Python, Java, Fortran and IDL.  Experienced with C, Scheme, LabVIEW and MATLAB.  Developed software on both Linux and Windows.