Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Accenture, Location, State Nashville, TN Work Experience Software Developer Accenture, Location, State July 2018 to Present Technologies: SOAP UI, Zelle API, AI, Python, SQL Server, C#, Server API, RPA- Blue Prism  Collaborate with business and customer to gather requirements and prepared documentation. Assist in the technical verification of all technical, functional and corporate requirements prior to delivery of software applications. Participate in the design documentation process by authoring various components of project. AI Developer/Tester Python Project Accenture, Location, State November 2018 to January 2019 Built backend for application that enabled data scientists, who were not familiar with Sci Kit or programming, to use Sci Kit functions through easy use interface. Preprocessed data into Panda formatting for the interface. Accenture, Location, State August 2018 to November 2018 Prepared backend RPA objects to track metrics on business use cases to be used by every RPA developer on Accenture internal and client projects. Objects used SQL Server API calls to grab XML data from C# and Blue Prism. Used C# to create UI for selecting tracking past use cases that could be sorted on various options and then transferred to an excel file.  Key Achievements:  * Maintain best practices with documentation, code standards, code/design reviews, and optimization.  * Meticulously write, debug and modify codes for various software components through the SDLC. Lab Assistant Oberlin College Computer Science Department - Oberlin, OH November 2016 to May 2018 Technologies: Java, Python, C Syntax  Provided instructional support on technology to the students in a busy lab-based environment. Abstracted the implementation of key data structures. Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science in Artificial Intelligence Oberlin College - Oberlin, OH 2018 Skills Android, Git, Python (2 years), Java Links http://github.com/wildyeo58 Additional Information Skilled and solution-driven IT professional, with ability to decipher customer requirements and deliver in an environment of cutting edge technology combined with complex object oriented programming methodologies, seeks a Software Developer role.  • Software Solutions: Passionate information technologist with focus on concepts, functionality, and user experience while translating customer requirements, and developing applications and solutions. Designed, coded and developed on different platforms in fast-paced technical environments and academic projects.  • Business Support: Highly organized with ability to maintain exceptional productivity and accuracy within dynamic environments. Strong business acumen with track record of maintaining operational excellence, positive customer experience and facilitating business transformations.  • Research & Problem Solving: Ability to research on new technologies, and work on innovative solutions for new problems. Keen on contributing to the ever-changing concepts of software engineering, tools and technologies, and the engineering best practices.    • Key Strengths: Excellent written and verbal communication skills. Strong analytical and problem solving skills, with ability to multi-task and work under pressure. Able to work and learn independently with minimal supervision, and also display collaboration within cross-functional teams.  Core Technologies:  Tools: Android Studio ID, XML, Google Location API, Android API calls, SQL, Firebase Database  Applications: MS Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint)  Languages: C#, Java, Python, C Syntax,