Data Analyst Data Analyst Data Analyst Dublin, CA • About 2 years of experience in data visualization, data analytics, data integration, data quality  using Tableau. Expertise in RDBMS, Agile, Scrum and waterfall methodologies and SQL  development. Strong command on MS Excel with VLOOKUP, MATCH, and INDEX functions.  • CSS, HTML and JavaScript along with good knowledge of backend technologies including  Python. Performed Beta testing before deploying the websites which resulted in best customer  experience. Experience with NetSuite, Photoshop (CS6) and Illustrator (CC).  • Enterprise resource planning, customer relationship management, strategic planning and  system analysis with E-commerce knowledge. Angular2 expertise with 12 months of experience.  • Strong knowledge in MS office tools and good hands on experience with Tableau (public).  • Strong understanding of project life cycle and Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC).  WordPress, CMS and multiple platforms Windows and Mac. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Analyst Sysowl August 2016 to August 2017 Developed reports, dashboards using Tableau and SQL queries. Built relationships, actions, data  blending, filters, parameters, hierarchies, calculated fields, sorting, groupings, live connections, and in-memory in both Tableau and Excel.  • Worked closely with the ETL group to automate the data load process. Aided in indexing and  table portioning for performance optimization of reports.  ? Assisted in managing a database containing student's information. Maintained various  procedures, functions and triggers to keep the data updated. Built tabular and graphical reports in Tableau to analyse market data per business user requests. Python/Tableau Developer Ravin Solutions May 2015 to December 2015 Worked as a Python developer at Ravin Solutions using Django for a content management system  project that allowed collaborative workflows across users. Designed ER diagrams.  • Aided in managing performance indexes and built/maintained ETL pipelines to feed the data.  • Worked in Tableau environment to create dashboards like weekly, monthly, daily reports using  Tableau desktop & publish them to server. Various analytical reports were designed and developed from multiple data sources by combining data on a worksheet in Tableau Desktop. Web developer, Intern Ravin Solutions January 2013 to December 2015 Worked as a web developer at Ravin Solutions using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Projects included various extensions to the company site. Was also responsible for monitoring  and fixing website crashes and any web log errors. Assisted in managing and enhancing the company's CRM system. Also performed graphic designing using cs6 and cc illustrator.  ? Black box testing is done manually to check the websites performance and stability.  ? Worked with complete redesigns of a daily events website and focused on improving readability,  utility, and overall UX. Worked closely with QA team to understand the reported defects and fix  them.  Wallis Ranch, Dublin, CA. 94568  (215)-801-7542, dineshreddi237@gmail.com Education Master of Science in Management in Information Systems in Management information systems Fairleigh Dickinson University - Teaneck, NJ