Web Application Developer ( Python) Web Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> (<span class="hl">Python</span>) Web Application Developer ( Python) - Land Title Guarantee Company Aurora, CO Full Stack Developer with broad background seeking to join a dynamic and talented software delivery team. Work Experience Web Application Developer ( Python) Land Title Guarantee Company - Greenwood Village, CO November 2017 to Present November 2017 - Current  ? Built and maintained critical aspects of the in-house web application used daily by over 700 employees.  ? Learned the Title business and the Python stack used by the team very rapidly, contributed immediately.  ? Helped establish Agile practices within the development team, namely the use of points to size tasks.  ? Earned the highest pre-employment Wonderlic test score in company history. Java Developer AAA Life Insurance - Livonia, MI February 2016 to May 2017 Redesigned AAALife.com from the ground up using the Hippo Content Management System tool.  ? Acted as SME on the Hippo tool. Consistent engagement with other team members to help them  understand how to use it most effectively and tackle difficult development problems.  ? Utilized various algorithms, data structures, and design patterns to create elegant business solutions.  ? Worked closely on the website's Life Insurance Quoting tool, identified by business sponsors to be the most critical aspect of the redesigned site. Collateral Underwriter Quicken Loans - Detroit, MI August 2014 to June 2015 Reviewed home appraisals to determine proper valuation and loanable condition.  ? Received "Rising Star Award" November 2014 for rapid development and strong team attitude.  ? Assigned leadership role in "Wingman" program. Created training materials and provided mentoring. Education Michigan State University - Detroit, MI September 2015 to November 2015 Links http://github.com/cwinnard Additional Information ? Full Stack Development experience in both Python and Java.  ? Strong ability to architect and execute large web applications, from database setup to user experience.  ? Flair for the front end and ability to get users to engage with the application in front of them.  ? Knowledge of relational and nonrelational databases. Data-driven application expertise.  ? Experience with Tomcat application servers, Linux cloud servers, and continuous integration techniques.  ? Familiar with AWS offerings such as EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, S3, and RDS.  ? Engaged student of Agile methods, clean code principles, and other ideals that make great software.    Languages and Technologies  ? Python, Flask, Java, Spring, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular, React, Node, HTML, CSS, Djanjo, Bash  FreeMarker, JDBC, SQLAlchemy, WTForms, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Alembic, Grunt, Virtualenv.