Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Intern Austin, TX • Over 4.5+ years of IT experience in design, development, testing and implementation of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask and AngularJS web application frameworks.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3  • Familiar with Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, robot framework, urllib2, wxPython, MySQL dB.  • Contributed to Open Source projects such as GNOME GTG. Solved and fixed bugs of level medium and low.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyDev, Eclipse, IntelliJ and Sublime Text.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, PostgreSQL, Elastic Search, MongoDB, Cassandra, SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Leveraging queueing architectures with AMQP/RabbitMQ and ZeroMQ for scalability, performance and building distributed systems.  • Worked on couple of freelancing projects throughout college at freelancer.com  • Experience in developing webpages using HTML, CSS, client-side JavaScript, jQuery and Jinja.  • Used LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP) & WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL and PHP) architecture.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Having working knowledge of Amazon Web Services S3 and EC2.  • Used source code version controls SVN and GIT.  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Dell EMC - Dell Technologies Present • Developed Major functionalities and performance enhancements to a Python Flask-based Redfish RESTful API Service.  • Functional enhancements to implement custom authentication, privilege authorization, and HTTP header processing in accordance with the Redfish REST API standard.   • Redfish is a REST API Service for Distributed management hardware.  • Performance enhancements to include caching and support for multiple client threads.  • Integrated of the Flask-based framework with Apache on Dell Rack Manager (CentOS).  • Worked on scripts to get data and metadata of node servers using python-redfish.   • Develop strategies for data cache system as response from redfish is slow.   • Execution of test plans for loading the data successfully into the targets.  • Supporting cache updates from a separate thread than main Flask service   • Implementing proxy logic to get response data from other redfish services on other management controllers in the rack  • Adding HTTP POST event delivery and SSDP discovery to the python service in compliance with the Redfish standard. Software Intern DST Systems - Kansas City, MO June 2016 to July 2016 Kansas City, MO, USA June 2016 - July 2016  Environment: Python 2.7, Oracle 11g, SQL, PL/SQL, RMAN, Shell Script, CommVault, Linux  Role: Software Intern  • Worked with Database Support team which includes administration, backup and recovery, installations, tuning, performance monitoring and restoration.  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Worked with tools RMAN, CommVault which monitor database jobs and manage backups and recovers.  • Writing backend scripts in Python to generate audit reports of user profiles in Oracle 11g.  • Developed Shell scripts to check for outdated archive logs and cleaning them out of the system.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands. Senior Software Engineer IGATE Computer Systems Ltd - Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2013 to August 2015 Navi Mumbai, MH, India July 2013 - Aug 2015  Environment: Python 2.6, Django 1.5, Jinja, Elastic Search, Cassandra, BaaN ERP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jira, Linux, Git  Role: Senior Software Engineer  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.6, Django 1.5, EmberJS, Jinja, AngularJS, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Developed and maintained solutions supporting BaaN ERP system, Oracle apps.  • Developed and tested many features for BaaN ERP using Python, Django, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Utilized Oracle, SQL, XML and Python to develop solutions in BaaN ERP systems.  • Worked with REST API, Angular JS to provide smooth operations between clients.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an onsite development team.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Purchase Order expectation.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands. Python Developer Open Source Contribution, GNOME September 2012 to November 2012 Sept 2012 - Nov 2012  Environment: PHP 5.3.17, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, Jira, Git, Google Analytics.  Role: PHP Developer  • Worked on Axelerant website in PHP and MySQL as backend server.  • Developed Interface using HTML, CSS and jQuery for Axelerant web page.  • Collaborated with a team of 4 to develop a demo of Axelerant business model.  • Designed the front end of the application using PHP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Developed and tested features for dashboard using PHP, PHPUnit, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage and jQuery for server side interaction.  • Used Adobe CQ for helping with reusing the components and templates for creating different web pages.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Develop digital consumer experiences based on foundation of the Adobe CQ/AEM product suite.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES:  • Participated in Yahoo Open Hack India 5 2012, a national level hackathon where a hack (creative product) was to be created within 24 hours.  • Participated and reached finals in the Annual National Software Development Program by IBM, The Great Mind Challenge-2011.  • Rendered Commendable services to organize the national level symposium Pragnya-2'11. Education Master's in Computer Science University of Missouri - Kansas City, MO December 2016 Bachelor's in Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2013 Skills Python (4 years), Flask (4 years), Django (4 years), AWS EC2 (2 years), AWS S3 and Lambda (2 years), Jenkins (1 year), Python Redfish (1 year) Links https://github.com/mrabhiram Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Primary Languages: Python, Java, C++, PHP  • Python Libraries: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, urllib2  • Frameworks: Bootstrap, Django, Jinja, EmberJS, Backbone, Flask, PyJamas  • Databases: Sqlite3, MySQL, Hive, Elastic Search, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g  • IDE's: PyCharm, Eclipse, IntelliJ, MS Visual Studio