Software Engineer in Automation Software Engineer in Automation Software Engineer in Automation - Google/Virtusa Sunnyvale, CA Work Experience Software Engineer in Automation Google/Virtusa - Mountain View, CA September 2018 to Present • Wrote a Python Scripts to Automate a Testcases for Google Home Automation devices like Nest, Ecobee and Speakers like iHome.  • Took initiative to develop internal Framework for Automation. Python Automation Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA October 2016 to September 2018 • Participate in the design, development, documentation, analysis and testing of assigned projects.  • Contributed for developing a python scripts for automating various call scenarios and validated the call flow by capturing packets.  • Optimized the existing framework from sequentially execution to parallel execution and successfully reduce the run time by 8 hrs to  2.5 hrs.  • Responsible for executing automation scripts for regression testing using Selenium WebDriver. Fixing bugs in the scripts, fixing test  data as and when required due to changes in the application.  • Tech stack: Robo and selenium (Framework), Python, MySQL (Database), SVN Software Developer HN Techno - Ahmedabad, Gujarat November 2013 to September 2014 • Developed database, Create and Mapping Tables, Developed ER Diagram for Timesheet Portal and Day Care Institution.  • Software Developer with experience in the full software development lifecycle including requirements gathering, design,  documentation, development.  • Experience in software development using core Java and J2EE.  • Data Modeling, writing Stored Procedures and SQL, PL/SQL queries in Oracle 11g. Intern Vector Institute - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2013 to November 2013 • Completed comprehensive training program having well integrated approach to embedded system development.  • hands-on experience on a spectrum of embedded applications, thereby improving their efficiency and effectiveness in the field of embedded system. Education Master of Science California State University - Los Angeles, CA June 2016 Bachelors of Engineering in Engineering Gujarat Technological University - Ahmedabad, Gujarat May 2013 Skills DATABASE (2 years), MYSQL (1 year), PYTHON (2 years), SVN (1 year), SELENIUM (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Programming Languages: Python, Java, C  • Backend Frameworks: Django, Flask, Robo, selenium  • Database: MYSQL, Postgre SQL, MongoDB, Oracle, SQLite  • Platform/Miscellaneous: GIT, SVN, Atom, Sublime, Eclipse, Pycharm, Wireshark  • Hadoop Ecosystem: MapReduce, Hive, Spark, HBase, Sqoop, Pig, Kafka, Flume, Impala