Software Developer ( Python) Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> (<span class="hl">Python</span>) Software Developer ( Python) - SS&C Technologies New York, NY Software Developer at SS&C Technologies and have a total experience of 4+ years. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer ( Python) SS&C Technologies - Windsor, CT April 2019 to Present • Classifying financial data using machine learning algorithms. Clustering algorithms used to get an insight on the data and group them accordingly. Classification algorithms are then used as the multiclass classifier. Numpy, pandas, scipy, tensorflow libraries are used. Graduate Assistant ( Python) University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT July 2018 to December 2018 Technologies: Python  • Earthquake prediction system was developed using the machine learning algorithms. This linear regression system was developed using Recurrent Neural Network variants i.e. LSTM and GRU.   • These supervised learning algorithms were used for analyzing, training and predicting the data. The results of the 2 variants were then also compared for efficiency. Numpy, pandas, matplotlib, tensorflow and cartopy plot libraries were used.  Senior Software Analyst Yardi Systems - Pune, Maharashtra July 2014 to August 2017 Technologies: Python, .Net MVC, SQL, SSRS.   Project: Voyager  • As a team member of Budget & Forecasting, developed a module for properties to predict future budget features using the past and current features. Linear regression was performed using Recurrent Neural networks. Analyzing, training and predicting the data was done using numpy, pandas, scipy, tensorflow and analysis graphs were drawn using matplotlib libraries.  • Also worked in the Residential team to develop and maintain residential module in C#.Net MVC, Javascript, SQL and reports were developed using SSRS. Project Intern Symantec Corporation - Pune, Maharashtra May 2013 to May 2014 Project: Model Performance for Data Insight  Technology: Python  • Designed and implemented a performance model for Symantec’s Data Insight (DI) product in Python.  • Performance model based on Queuing Theory M/M/1 model. The model would forecast the sustainability of the architecture to be designed. Libraries used were numpy, pandas, matplotlib.  • Developed statistical data (graphs, charts, etc.) using matplotlib library. Education MS in Computer Science in Databases University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT August 2017 to December 2018 B.Tech in Information in Technology University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra August 2010 to May 2014 Skills Python (3 years), C# (3 years), Java (1 year), Javascript (2 years), Deep Learning (3 years), Parallel Computing (2 years), SQL (3 years), MVC (3 years), .NET (3 years), Django (2 years), MySQL, Git, Jquery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/shashankbhagat https://github.com/shashankbhagat