Job Seeker • Having 1.10 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django.  • Having very strong knowledge of Object-oriented (oops) software engineering methodologies.  • Built Web application using Python, Django, HTML. Used Apache to deploy production site.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVT and frameworks such as Django.  • Good understanding on String, List, Tuples, and Dictionary.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm.  • Good knowledge on Regular Expressions, File Handling, Modules and Functions.  • Experience in developing User Interface using HTML.  • Extensively involved in developing web applications.  • Good knowledge in object-oriented concepts, Exceptional-Handling, Inheritance.  • Good knowledge and work experience with MySQL. Work Experience Wibmo September 2017 to Present Description:  V-Lay is an e-commerce project developed based on python platform. Through this site customer can do online shopping where he can have different options to purchase his/her products from different shops. This project consists of different retailers with their different products, so that customer can have different choices to select his/her product.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in front-end designing using HTML, CSS.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Designed the Web application Using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible and flexible.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models with the help of ORM like mysql.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, implementation and support based on the requirement.    Declaration:  I here by declare that the information furnished above is true to the best of my knowledge.    Place: J Shankar Yadav python Developer Wibmo - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN June 2017 to Present Education MCA Sree Vidhyanikethan Institute of Management - Tirupati, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Additional Information Skills:    Web Technologies: Django, MVT.  Database: MySQL.  IDE: IDLE, PyCharm.  Operating System: Windows.