Net Developer Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Net Developer East Hartford, CT, CT ? Software developer with over 5 years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and web application development, which comprises of User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment environment using .NET, Python, Java and webtechnologies  ? Experience in SQL and NoSQL databases. Proficiency in writing PL/SQL in both SQL Server and Oracle. Participated in query optimization and performance tuning sessions while writing stored procedures Experience in MongoDB NoSQL.  ? Experience designing and developing Winforms and Webforms and used Delegates and Events to establish communication between the Winforms.  ? Strong understanding of OOPS concepts and design implementations using UML.  ? Proficiency in .NET languages C#, VB.NET, web technologies ASP.NET (Web Forms and MVC), and Win Forms, WPF.  ? Extensive experience in ORM, Entity Framework Code First, Database First approaches, implemented the Features Security, Performance, CRUD operations and Migrations etc.  ? Expertise on ADO.NET components such as Datasets, Data Adapter, Data Reader, Data View, Data Table.  ? Worked in Agile SDLC methodology, SCRUM framework and Test driven development (TDD) based on story points.  ? Expertise in building Web Services using WSDL, UDDI, SOAP Protocol and consuming/publishing Web services Designed, modeled and architected enterprise n-tier software agent using WCF web service.  ? Expertise in implementing SOA using WCF technology developed and consumed WCF services with features versioning, security, optimization and reliability.  ? Experienced working with MS-SSIS and MS-SSRS for the data integration and data reporting services. Knowledge of creating reports with Crystal Reports 9/10.  ? Experience in web development using XML, XSD, X-Path and XSLT. Experience in migration of Data from Excel, Flat file, to MS SQL Server by using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), BCP and DTS utility.  ? Hands on experience in working with development of Stored Procedures, Queries, Indexes, Triggers and Views using SQL Server 2008 and T-SQL.  ? Experience in developing web-centric applications using JavaScript framework AngularJS, HTML5, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, CSS. Experience hosting web applications in IIS, developing applications using the ASP.NET MVC.  ? Exposed to Python libraries NumPy, SciPy, Matlplotlib and familiarity with Django framework usingIntegrated Development Environment PyCharm 2017.1 and Brackets.io  ? Excellent Java development using IntelliJ IDEA 2017.2.1, Eclipse and NetBeans 8.2  ? Expert in C# programming, ASP.NET, MVC 4 and web services RESTful API, SOAPusing Visual studio 2017  ? Knowledge of Relational databases SQL server, MySQL, Oracle and NoSQL database CortexDB  ? Professional experience of Business analysis over 2 years and its principles by vigorously fortifying business solutions and analyzing business operations  ? Strong understanding with 2+ years of experience in PHP, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 and AngularJS  ? 1-year hands on experience with Laravel - the PHP framework following MVC, PSR standards  ? Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data. ImplementedAngular Service calls using Angular Factory  ? Possesses knowledge in SaaS (Software as a Service) and Big Data with Pig, Hive and MapReduce Work Experience Net Developer Charter communications - Stamford, CT July 2017 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Design, Development, and Maintenance and Production Support activities.  ? Developed dynamic ASPX web pages for Application using ASP.NET, C#, XML, XSL/XSLT, HTML5, CSS3and JavaScript, Angular JS.  ? Used technologies like AJAX for a rich UI experience and better performance.  ? Developed core functionality with the .NET Framework (C#.NET, ADO.NET)  ? Used Dev express grid to give user more attractive interface and functionalities.  ? Developed the Business Layer, Presentation Layer and Data Access Layer for the application.  ? Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter, for consistent access to SQL datasources.  ? Wrote complex queries, User Defined Functions (UDF's) and Stored Procedures  ? Created numerous simple to complex queries involving self joins, correlated sub-queries, functions, \ cursors, dynamic T-SQL.  ? Implemented N-Tier Architecture and integrated the UI with Data base for data retrieval andmanipulation using ADO.NET data objects and ADO.NET Entity Framework.  ? Worked extensively on the UI, created Views by utilizing MVC 4, created View models and wrote clientside validations using JQuery and Ajax Toolkit.  ? Created LINQ enabled database layer using API such as LINQ to SQL and Entity Framework.  ? Handling the tasks of designing and maintaining SQL databases and VB6 applications.  ? Worked with ASP.NET Web Forms, Webservices, WPF, and State Management, caching features, configuring optimizations and securing the web application.  ? Used Angular JS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  ? Implemented web services with SOA using WCF and CSLA for passing data to multiple platforms.  ? Integrated WCF with help desk system to Sharepoint for ticketing.  ? Designed and developed remote client access using SOAP/XML/Web Services to allow for syncing ofdata at remote sites and the main data site.  ? Implemented MVVM (Model View View Model) pattern to create Silverlight user controls  ? Built GUI using Silverlight 3.0, XAML, HTML, DHTML, Web Forms classes and AJAX control for providing aconsistent look and their individual states persisted across sessions, thus saving individual preferencesand providing a smooth navigation experience.  ? Worked on backend processes like SSIS, report generation using SSRS, and rule engine processing.  ? Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for the source control, data collection, reporting and projecttracking.    Environment: Visual Studio 2013, .Net Framework 3.5/4.0, MVC 4, C#, ASP.NET, IIS, XAML, WCF, WPF, Html 5, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, Web services, LINQ, SQL SERVER 2012, SSIS, AngularJS, JavaScript. Net Developer Enlightened. Inc - Washington, DC January 2017 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Design and developing .Net web applications using ASP.NET 3.5 /4.0/4.5, MVC 5.0/4.0/3.0. C#.NET, CSSJavaScript and Angular JS and creating the content management system.  ? Creating responsive web application using Bootstrap. It is the faster way to create a responsive web application.  ? Implementing MVC 4 architecture using C# .NET, HTML 5 and Razor view engine.  ? Creating the application using Code First Approach and generating the migration files for database.  ? Analytical and problem solving skills to assist Team members in the project, using LINQ over collections and Entity framework for data querying and filtering the results.  ? Preparing the Requirement gathering and analysis, Change Management, Design Documents, Data Modeling, Deployment guide and unit test cases documents.  ? Extensively involved in developing SQL Server, T-SQL schema objects such as Indexed views, stored procedures, user defined functions, triggers, Performance tuning, roles and users.  ? Involved in designing, developing, debugging and testing of reports in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  ? Generating the reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) reporting tool for the managers.  ? Creating the controls, families and populating the values and controls using XML files.  ? Creating WebAPI, WCF in the business logic layer and consuming API through AngularJs in displaying the control Families from XML to the view of the web Application.  ? Involved in giving support to the testing and quality assurance and user acceptance testing teams for the application testing.  ? Extensively worked with TFS as the source control repository and timely merging to the testing and staging.  ? Support production deployment of applications and perform "validation testing", NLog.  ? Produce technical documentation for new and existing applications.    Environment: ASP.NET MVC 4.0/3.0, C#.Net, ADO.NET, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular, XML, XSLT, JSON, AJAX, IIS 6.0, Oracle, SQL Server 2000/2008, SSRS, Web API, Visual Studio 2008/2010/2015, .NET Framework 2.0/3/0/3.5/4.0/4.5, Windows XP and Windows 2003/2008 Servers, SQL, T-SQL MS office, TFS (Team Foundation Server) Python Developer-Intern Agfa Health Care - Westerly, RI May 2016 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirementsby conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  ? Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  ? Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  ? Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  ? Updated and manipulated content and files by using python scripts.  ? Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Worked on Python Open stack API's.  ? Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation andretrieval.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Also, used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdB package.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface inthe XML format.    Environment: Python, Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL,  MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX Software Developer Arcelor Technologies - Pune, Maharashtra August 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Introduced to develop scalable software solutions using cutting edge technologies Java, .NET and Python  ? Implemented first Python project with MySQL for retail store providing possible operations in later period  ? Designed and developed transactional and analytical data structures using Java in IntelliJ software  ? Implemented the frontend user interface using Servlets, JSP and AJAX  ? Developed distance calculation between any two points using RESTful API web services  ? Contributed to a group of developers in user interface design and backend development on the quality analytics for authentic time communication application for iPad/iPhone  ? Learned Amazon web services, Google cloud environment and used elastic search for the upcoming project    Environment: Python, MySQL, Java, .NET, JSP, AJAX, AWS, REST API, PHP, SQL, XCode, waterfall, HTML5, CSS3 Web Developer (Intern) Arcelor Technologies - Pune, Maharashtra January 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Selected to develop and assist in design very first web presence for the start-up company. Later, worked on various dynamic and content management system applications  ? Responsible for Design and implementation of secure webpages using HTML, CSS, and PHP along with WordPress  ? Search@click - Built first product for company to promote businesses  ? Built databases following n-tier architecture methodology for ecommerce websites (PHP, HTML5, CSS3, introduced JavaScript) in MySQL and CRUD operations  ? Maintained and Redesign deployed websites and achieved end user satisfaction by assisting them    Environment: HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, WordPress, Joomla, APIs, MySQL, Bootstrap Education Masters of Computer Science in Computer Science University of Bridgeport Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra Skills .Net (2 years), HTML5 (3 years), MYSQL (3 years), PHP (3 years), SQL (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: C, C++, C# .NET, Java, Python; Familiar with Java, R, Ruby  Databases: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, sqlite3  Web technologies: PHP, HTML5, CSS3, ASP.NET, MVC4, Django, JavaScript, AngularJS, WordPress, Joomla, Drupal, jQuery, Bootstrap, Node.js  Operating Systems: Unix, Linux, Windows 7/8/10  Web servers: MAMP, XAMPP, WAMP, nginx  Python modules: NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Django  JAVA/J2EE Methodologies: Spring, Hibernate, Struts  APIs: RESTful, SOAP  Tools:  Visual studio 2017, Jetbrains PyCharm 2017.1.2, IntelliJ IDEA 2017.2.1, Netbeans 8.2, Eclipse, Brackets.io, Microsoft Office 365, SPSS