Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer Sandy, UT Obtain a remote or Utah-based position as a Python Developer in the areas of Big Data, DevOps, or both. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Kaiser Permanente - Portland, OR January 2019 to Present • Develop a file transfer framework accessible on the web using IIS, Oracle, SQLite, and Django.  • Write knowledge base articles and procedures about testing Python code, bug fixes, coding style, and IIS troubleshooting especially with Django.  • Fix bugs and troubleshoot issues regarding Python, Django, Pytest and Oracle Python Developer & Data Scientist, Freelance Salt Lake City, UT September 2014 to Present Fulfill orders from local and online clients for various Python projects and tasks.  ? involving.troubleshooting, application development and research, such as data analysis, web scraping, data mining, and machine learning (supervised, unsupervised, deep learning, etc.).  ? Make most frequent use of the following libraries aside from builtins: os, subprocess, smtplib, NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, SQLAlchemy, urllib, SciPy, Sci-Kit Learn (sklearn), keras and TensorFlow.  ? Primarily use Flask and secondarily use Django for web development. Python Developer Allstate - Draper, UT September 2018 to December 2018 ? Participate in SCRUM Sprints using AGILE methodology in JIRA  ? Design and implement software solutions and API's using Python   ? Write unit and integration tests  ? Write and share documentation for new modules  ? Add code to pipeline  ? Add code to Github and documentation to SharePoint IT Service Desk Technician, CRM Admin Dyno Nobel - Cottonwood Heights, UT September 2016 to September 2018 Wrote Python and PowerShell scripts for creating tools for the service desk and analyzing data  ? See LinkedIn for more details Tier II Software Support Manager (US) IDrive, Inc - Calabasas, CA February 2015 to September 2016 See LinkedIn for more details Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Business Administration DeVry University Skills PYTHON (5 years), MATPLOTLIB (4 years), NUMPY (4 years), PANDAS (4 years), DATA ANALYSIS (4 years), Business Intelligence, SQL, testing, Excel, HTML, SAP Links http://linkedin.com/ryanschostag Additional Information Skills    • Write modules, scripts and unit tests in Python 3 for extracting, storing, filtering and updating databases  • Worked with Django, IIS, and Oracle (SQLPlus)  • Python 3 for data analysis (Numpy, Pandas and Matplotlib) on error logs at Dyno Nobel  • Some experience with using Amazon AWS EC2 instances for testing a program that validates emails  • Use PDB, Pytest, and unittest for debugging and unit testing, and Jenkins for integration testing  • Adaptable to a number of environments for project and development management