Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Seeking Summer 2017 Internship in the area of Data Science / Data Engineering / Machine Learning / Android Developer / Software Engineering Intern Los Angeles, CA Dear Sir/Mam,  I am highly interested to do internship in your Organization.  I am a graduate student and have joined USC this Fall'16 and my major is MS in CS specialization in Data Informatics. I have done Machine Learning and Data Management in my Fall’16 Semester and doing Data Mining and Professional Practicum (Project) course in the Spring’17 semester. I have made several mini- projects on ML on many concepts which can be seen on LinkedIn.  Additionally, I am having 3 years of work experience as a Software Developer (Android Developer) in Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. and have developed and worked on live projects like developing bPay and Barclay Card Android Applications for Client Barclays Bank.  I have extensive experience in Python, Android, Java, Dot Net and Database Technologies and I am a Microsoft Certified Professional and have also completed 1Z0-051 Oracle Database 11g: SQL Fundamentals I Certification with 100% Score. I am also working as a Teaching Assistant for Python Course and an Android Developer for USC School of Social Work.  Please find attached my resume.  Also, please check my linkedIn profile at : https://www.linkedin.com/in/nikita-gupta-736996  Regards,  Nikita Gupta  +213-421-6756  Graduate Student at University of Southern California. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer USC Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work - Los Angeles, CA February 2017 to Present Android developer for WelConnect Mobile Application which helps new families to integrate smoothly into their new school district and community by connecting them to available resources and support programs. Teaching Assistant & Grader for Python University of Southern California - Los Angeles, CA January 2017 to Present - Teaching Assistant & Grader for the Course : Solving Engineering Problems with Code ( Python).  - Responsible for performing teaching-related duties to assist Professor during Lecture and Labs.  - Proctor exams, grade programming assignments and homework. Systems Engineer Tata Consultancy Services Ltd - Pune , INDIA October 2013 to July 2016 - Worked as a Native Android Developer for Client Barclays Bank and have developed Android Applications bPay ( Playstore Rating : 3.2, Downloads of over 10k), Barclay Card Application (Playstore Rating : 4.3 ,Downloads of over 50k) and Barclay Card Android Tablet Application.  - Responsible for working closely with the business, validating requirements, designs and actively developing features based on the requirements.  - Responsible for continuous delivery of the project using tools such as Jenkins, Gradle, Artifactory.  - Developed thorough pragmatic understanding of Android, Java, handling Gateway Server Calls, GSON/JSON parsing, Gradle, Singleton Coding Architecture, developing Robotium Scripts for Automation Testing.  - Responsible for enhancing the app based on the reviews and feedback given via various media.  - Extensively practiced Agile Methodology for implementing project features in phased model. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Southern California, Viterbi School of Engineering - Los Angeles, CA August 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Shri Vaishnav Institute of Technology & Science - Indore, WV July 2009 to May 2013 Skills ANDROID (3 years), ARCHITECTURE (2 years), JAVA (5 years), JDBC (2 years), JSON (3 years), Hadoop (1 year), Map Reduce (1 year), Spark (1 year), Python (2 years), SQL (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nikita-gupta-736996 Certifications/Licenses TS: Web Applications Development with Microsoft .NET Framework 4 May 2014 to Present 1Z0-051 Oracle Database 11g: SQL Fundamentals I August 2013 to Present Additional Information TECHNOLOGIES  • Android Technology: Android Application Development (Java), Gradle, Android Application Development (C# Xamarin).  • Java Technology: Core Java, Advance Java, JSP, Java Servlets, JDBC.  • Other Technology: Python, MapReduce, Hadoop, Spark, C, C++, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, HTML 5, JSON, GSON.  • Design Patterns: Singleton, 3 and 5 tier Architecture, MVC, MVVM.  • Database: NoSql, MySQL, Sql Server, SQLite, Oracle 11g  • Toolkits: Numpy, SciKit, SciPy, MatpotLib, PyLab, Amazon Web Services, Amazon DynamoDB    ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE AND AWARDS  • Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. "Star Performer Award" and "Half Yearly Individual Performance Factor rating of 5.0/5.0"  • Organiser at Southern California Data Science Conference 2016.