Specialist C in Computer Science Specialist C in Computer Science Dallas, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Specialist C in Computer Science DESOFT. Cuba - Cuba, MO July 2012 to May 2015 ? Development of web applications with Python/Django.  ? Created Databases, Tables, Indexes, Unique/Check Constraints, Views, Stored Procedures,  Triggers, Functions in SQL Server 2012.  ? Converting a code base from static PHP to a dynamic Python/Django site, and growing site traffic through improving site performance  ? Created different types of Reports based on requirements. Involved in design,  programming, deploy and Unit Testing of requested Reports.  ? Reviewing and ensuring that data loaded into the data warehouse is accurate.  ? Perform acceptance testing software.  ? Provided documentation on start-up, shut down and first level troubleshooting of processes to help desk staff.  ? Developed and implemented complex Internet and Intranet applications on multiple platforms Python Developer./Network Administrator National Research Institute of Metrology (INIMET), - Havana Python Developer.  ? Managed a small team of programmers designed and developed corporate website to Human Resources Management using the Django framework  ? Developed document flow reports using Java and Python.  ? Programmed, tested, and implemented a user login, product registration, order placing & tracking, and statistics reporting system  Network Administrator   ? Implementation and support of systems and services to the corporate network LAN/WAN as are: Email, Proxy, Firewall, Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, FTP, Database, Instant Messaging, Web, Monitoring, Intrusion detection system, Corporative antivirus, Version Control.  ? Deployment of Virtualization Systems.  ? Installation and configuration of network infrastructures (Switch, Access Points).  ? Support to the network users.  ? Hardware Troubleshooting.  ? Webmaster. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Computer Science University of Computer Science, Cuba - Havana 2006 to 2011 Skills ? Operating Systems: Windows (Workstation and Server). (4 years), Python, Django, PHP, C#, HTML, C/C++, Java, XML T-SQL(2008, 2012, 2014). (7 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/glenda-lopez-a10236b7?trk=nav_responsive_tab_profile_pic