Software Engineer Software Engineer New York, NY ? Around 3 years of IT experience in developing and programming applications using Python.  ? Have deep understanding of Object Oriented Language like Python and C++ and extensive experience on algorithms, data structures and design patterns.  ? Solid knowledge of develops web applications and RESTful APIs using Django web framework.  ? Worked on Python multi-threading and multi-processing application.  ? Experienced skills of analyze large scales of data using Python statistics packages like NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Scipy.  ? Familiar with Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) process in data warehousing.  ? Good understanding of Relational Database and experience of building, maintaining and querying large database using MySQL.  ? Experience in web technologies like HTML/XHTML, also expertise in working with CSS and Java Script.  ? Hands on experience in unit testing, test harness using libraries like unittest, unittest.mock in Python.  ? Very good understanding of operates Linux/Unix system as well as Shell commands.  ? Have extensive experience with IDE for various platforms such as Canopy, Xcode, Eclipse, Visual Studio, etc. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer innovatis - Jersey City, NJ July 2016 to Present The project is to develop a web-based e-commerce solution. It provides a variety of features such as customer account management, product system, shopping cart, order system and online payment system. Customers can add items to the shopping cart, check out the items, and view the order history.    Responsibilities:  ? Design and build website content and user management system in HTML, PHP and MySQL.  ? Develop the core functionalities using Python.  ? Design stored procedures, functions, views, and triggers using MySQL.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases. Python Developer ICBC - New York, NY July 2015 to February 2016 The application was used to manage the account information for bank customers. Updates the account data for customers after they made a transaction. It keeps track of the information like balance, location, and transaction time of ATM machines.    Responsibilities:  ? The web framework of the web application is build using Django.  ? Build the user interface of the web using base class of views and template in Django.  ? Implement several models to realize updating machine information, creating account, creating card, making transactions, update account information, and querying balance using Python.  ? Write SQL script to create database responding to all models.  ? Link all feedbacks of the website to the database through making setting of MySQL API.  ? Write unit test for all models in case boundary conditions cause errors. Data Engineer Intern Accenture - New York, NY January 2015 to May 2015 Accenture is a professional services company providing consulting, digital technology, and operations solutions and services. The project is aiming to show company how their employee engagement performed among companies in same industry. The result will be show in number and rank in up to 9 aspects including environment, location, compensation, work-life balance, culture, etc.    Responsibilities:  ? Build a model to measure the employee engagement in number using weighted arithmetic average and regression analysis.  ? Write Python web scripting to obtain real-time comments data in CSV format and import into Python.  ? Transform the raw data into clean, aggregative data using packages like NumPy and Pandas of Python.  ? Implement the method of sentiment analysis based on Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK) package in Python.  ? Create a word-cloud and frequency count data visualization to classify all impact factors using Python.  ? Design data visualization of results uses Google API. Data Scientist Stevens Institute of Technology January 2014 to December 2014 ? Write script language to obtain large set of data from website such as Yahoo Finance.  ? Implement statistical models like time series analysis, regression analysis, confidence interval, etc. using R programming.  ? Realize basic functions and algorithms using object-oriented programming language like Python and C++. Education Master in Financial Engineering Stevens Institute of Technology Bachelor in Electrical Engineering Northwest University Skills Python (3 years), C++ (2 years), MySQL (3 years), R programming (2 years), VBA (2 years), Excel (3 years), Linux (2 years), HTML (2 years), CSS (2 years), PHP (1 year), Javascript (1 year)