Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - OTSi Having around 2 years of differenced IT experience in designing and developing Python programming modules & Django web applications and involved in implementation, testing, deployment and monitor & maintenance stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases.  Well versed with procedural, object-oriented and functional methodologies in Python language.  Good working experience with core Python programming and Django web framework programming.  Worked on developing Python modules using Python libraries and data driven website models using Django framework.  Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP and RESTful) in Python.  Worked on data parsing formats like JSON and XML.  Experienced in implementing MVC and MVT architecture using Django for web-based applications. Experienced using Python OOP concepts.  Experienced in working with various Python development IDEs like IDLE, PyCharm, Visual Studio Code and Atom.  Experience with SQL queries by using databases like MySQL, SQL Server 2014 and Oracle 10g.  Good insight of using Git & GitHub repository (Online) and SmartSVN & VisualSVN (Offline) SVN tools.  Experience with HTTP requests and pycrypto, numpy, scipy, matplotlib & pandas Python libraries during development lifecycle.  Experience in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views and Templates using CSS for whole site following Django MVT architecture.  Good understanding of HTTP Methods and RESTful architecture and implemented them in projects according to requirement.  Followed PEP-8 coding standard while developing Python code.  Worked on Python code checking by using PyChecker and Python code analysis by using PyLint tools.  Involved in unit testing of the developed Python code using PyTest according to client test specifications.  Worked on code debugging to remove the errors in developed Python code. Work Experience Developer OTSi April 2018 to Present Description: AppicFeed is an organizational social network web application. It enables employees of the organization to collaborate and share experiences. It's meant to be closed and to run inside a company.    It contains Feed page, so they could share links and post some of their thoughts and keep track of what everyone was doing. Apart from Feed page it is having Articles page, so the employees could share some elaborate content. It contains a Messenger page (A basic chat like tool) And finally, the Q&A page for questions related to our business and the products and services we developed for our customers - which couldn't be shared openly.    Responsibilities:  Developing Articles page for the web application using class-based views.  Developed CRUD operations for Articles page using MVT architecture.  Worked on DB connectivity with MySQL and developed Django model classes (Django ORM).  Worked with pagination for Articles page using Django classes.  Worked on developing URLs for the views for the application.    Project 1:    Title: Payment Card Automation Module.  Customer: Vocus Group Limited, New Zealand.  Project Model: Python module.  Responsibilities: Development and Support.  Environment: Python 3.6, pycrpyto, Oracle, PyCharm and Windows 10. Python Programmer OTSi - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN January 2017 to Present Educational Qualification: Developer OTSi January 2017 to March 2017 Description: Payment Card Automation project is a Python credit cards and debit cards tokenization (PCI-DSS qualified) module which handles encryption and decryption of payments cards numbers. This Token Engine consists of a python module which handles all the tokenization and de-tokenization process. This module is loaded by an external web service when payment card data enters into that service. The web service offers architecture neutrality and operating system independency. So, it allows different ERPs, DBs, text files, MS-Excel files and other web services to connect seamlessly. The total communication between web service and Python module is encrypted end to end by security certificates.    Responsibilities:  Responsible for development and maintenance of the Python middleware encryption module methods.  Performed part of the development, testing and maintenance of the client's core technology platform.  Created documentation for the project and maintained it.  Prepared the test data and verified the test results against the test data.  Involved in unit testing and implementation of the project.  Involved in DB design and query development activities of the project.  Wrote resource bundles and made the application as i18n application. Education B.Tech Kakatiya University - Warangal, Telangana Additional Information Technical Skills:    Primary Languages: C, J2SE 1.8 and Python 3.6.    Web Frameworks: Django 2.0.    Data Parsing Formats: JSON and XML.    RDBMS: SQL Server 2014 and MySQL 5.    Web Services: SOAP and REST.    IDEs: PYCHARM, Atom and Visual Studio Code.    Testing & Logging: PyTest and Logging.    Support Tools: BugZilla and FileZilla.    Operating Systems: Windows 7, Windows 8 and Linux (CentOS).  Job Profile: