Python Software Developer, Automation and Quality Assurance <span class="hl">Python</span> Software <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Automation and Quality Assurance Python Software Developer, Automation and Quality Assurance - CollabNet Inc Houston, TX Work Experience Python Software Developer, Automation and Quality Assurance CollabNet Inc January 2016 to Present Creation and testing of both frontend and backend automation and monitoring software for corporate customers..  ? Engineered and tested automation solutions for both customers as well as the company.  ? Expanded functionality of existing APIs to adapt with growing needs.  ? Spearheaded the creation of the company's first web application vulnerability scanning toolset.  ? Quality Assurance of existing and new code commits before being used in production.  ? Security advisor for the Houston area software development teams. Python Developer, Integration Services Team Alert Logic July 2014 to August 2015 Creation of automation and monitoring of both frontend and backend company systems.  ? Designed and programmed a complete automation solution for real-time inventory and shipment tracking in Python  ? Supplemented the data gathering shortcomings of the SalesForce API by recoding the existing Python APIs for specialized queries.  ? Improved and maintained automation programs to populate a database with statistical values and historical data of 2000+ Linux appliances in the field.  ? Queried backend MySQL databases to correlate and reconcile discrepancies in frontend services (GUI/Web GUI) Web Application Firewall Security Analyst/ Python Developer Alert Logic February 2014 to July 2014 Web Application Firewall administration and signature tuning and customization.  ? Code transposition of aging scripts in various programming languages in line with the company's Python initiative.  ? Worked as an embedded analyst with several critical accounts.  ? Consulted customer network engineers on configuring network routing to WAF device for optimal efficiency and monitoring.  ? Developed monitoring automation to gather, store, and present statistical data for 4000+ WAF devices.  ? Spearheaded the creation of the first version of the web based administration toolset for the WAF fleet (Perl, PHP, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL) Python Developer/Senior Security Analyst - Partner Team Alert Logic December 2013 to February 2014 with a major partner for threat and log visibility monitoring. Acted as the department liaison for advanced technical and security issues.  ? Automated complicated visibility, monitoring, and device health reporting to increase intrusion detection efficiency.  ? Improved the effectiveness and response of the partner's security team through training and mentoring.  ? Developed both Web Based and Platform dependent versions of a tool to gather incident data from backend services and populate customer data tables within various frontend systems.  ? Specialized code writing on a customer level based on company and customer needs. Core Network Security Analyst Alert Logic November 2012 to December 2013 Provided comprehensive network security services for Fortune 500 companies using IDS, log, and traffic anomaly intelligence based solutions.  ? Quickly developed scripts needed to alleviate incident load during threat outbreaks.  ? Mentored security team in both network security and programming.  ? Revamped the derelict security training lab with up-to-date detection signatures and automation.  ? Improved existing scripts as well as designed and created monolithic Python based applications. Education Houston Community College - Houston, TX August 2004 to June 2005 Certifications/Licenses GIAC Certified Incident Handler (GCIH)