Service Operation Engineer Service Operation Engineer Service Operation Engineer US Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Service Operation Engineer Ixaris Systems Ltd May 2018 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  - CentOS Admin  - developing python/bash automation scripts  - application management, release process  - extracting data to prepare SLA's forms  - monitoring systems with Zabbix Professional Technical Engineer Atos GDC Sp April 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  - RedHat Admin, Python Developer  - python back-end developing  - bash scripting  - creating RedHat images for VMware and VM using templates  - storage and processes management  - incident monitoring with Zabbix and Nagios  - install and configure RedHat 7 and CentOS 7 servers  - users and privileges management  - application server management (jboss, apache, tomcat)  - install and basic configuration MySQL  - developed Ansible module to editing XML files  - using Ansible to daily work with RedHat servers  - using svn/git, Jira and Jenkins roles to manage CI/CD tasks  - using Jenkins Pipeline to deploy apps with Apache Debian Admin, Python Developer JustNet July 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  - storage and processes management  - Cacti and Zabbix management  - users and privileges management  - install and basic configuration MySQL  - configure Apache virtualhosts  - upgrading Debian form 6,7,8 to version 9  - install and configuration Linux Containers (LXC)  - developing automation scripts in python with paramiko, fabric  and SQLAlchemy  - bash scripting  - log management with syslog and logrotate  - migration database from Sybase to MariaDB  - firewall management  - improve low performance SQL queries  - AngularJS, PHP Web developing with SQL Queries (Doctrine 2) Education master in IT University of Gdansk 2013 to 2015 bachelor in IT, specialization Databases University of Gdansk 2010 to 2013 maths-physics-informatics V High School of Zbigniew Herbert in S?upsk 2007 to 2010 Skills PHP (1 year), PYTHON (2 years), DATABASES (2 years), MYSQL (2 years), APACHE (2 years) Links https://github.com/kkarczewski Certifications/Licenses Red Hat Certified System Administrator Red Hat Certified Engineer (EX300) Additional Information Skills  ? practical knowledge of Debian 6,7,8,9, CentOS 7, RedHat 7 confirmed by exam RHCE  (EX300)  ? knowledge of virtualization: LXC, RAID, VMware  ? knowledge of databases servers: MySQL, MariaDB  ? knowledge of databases: MySQL, MariaDB  ? knowledge of Jenkins, Confluence, Jira, GIT, SVN  ? knowledge of Ansible  ? knowledge of monitoring systems like Cacti, Zabbix, Nagios, SMART, eximstats  ? knowledge of configuration Apache, JBoss, Tomcat  ? programming skills in Python, Bash, SQL, JavaScript, PHP, C  ? skills in: XML, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Doctrine 2  ? knowledge of designing relational databases