Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Pro-Tek Consulting San Diego, CA Work Experience Python Developer Pro-Tek Consulting - San Diego, CA July 2017 to Present Jr. Software Developer  * Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  * Used the Model View controller (MVC) to build modular and maintainable applications  * Building reusable code and libraries for future use.  * Developed scalable applications using Django framework.  * Build all database mapping classes using Django models with the help of ORM.  * Wrote multi-thread scripts to obtain optimal performance.  * Integration of user-facing elements developed by a front-end developer with server side logic.  * Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features.  * Operated all the user side validation using JavaScript and AJAX.  * Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  * Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and implementation and support.  Pro-Tek Consulting, Client: AgileBTS - Pasadena, California Python Developer REST FRAMEWORK June 2017 to November 2017 Jr. Software Developer  • Designed and implemented an application for managing customers, purchases and invoices.  • Extensively used python's OOPs concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Also designed and implemented panel for customers with features to check, update and payment of invoice.  • Used Django's session handling and token authorization for authenticating customers with their login details.  • Created RESTful APIs using Django REST FRAMEWORK.  • Binded the entire application on Nginx & gunicorn server as well as build server work using Jenkins.  • Worked extensively on JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3.  • Developed initial database tier using Django ORM. Successfully migrated Django ORM to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Followed AGILE development methodology.  • Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Nginx, gunicorn, Linux, Javascript, Jquery, GitHub, HTML5, CSS3 Software Intern Pro-Tek Consulting - Los Angeles, CA September 2015 to October 2016 • Developed an application to maintain active cloud instances mostly their provisioning and decommissioning.  • Involved in the complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Used virtualization tool "virtual box" to create linux RedHAT(RHEL7) & performing the development on the same work station.  • Used MySQL database for maintaining instance records- provisioned & decommissioned.  • Created Auto-logout feature using Django based session handling.  • Performed unit & functional testing using pytest, pytest-cov packages of python  • Used Django's REST services to create APIs mostly GET, POST, PUT, DELETE.  • Active part in designing and creating UI of the application using Javascript, HTML, CSS and jquery.  • Environment: Python, Django, REST, MySQL, pytest, pytest-cov, javascript, jquery, HTML, CSS, linux RedHAT.    PROJECTS  Water Consumption Analysis:  • Worked on python project that analyses how a change in the weather affects water consumption in the state of California.  • Wrote customized Python Script to automate the task of web scrapping.  • After fetching the raw data, it was stored in NoSQL database MongoDB.  • Used Python libraries like NumPy & Matplotlib for computation and graphical data representation.    Languages/ Platforms: Python, Numpy, Matplotlib, MongoDB  Social Media App  • Designed an "Instagram" kind-of web application as part of academic project.  • Implemented complete website on Django Framework.  • Used MySQL database. Migrated data from Django ORM to MySQL database with complete data integrity.    Languages/ Platforms: Python, Django, MySQL, Sublime Text, BootStrap, CSS, HTML Education Bachelor in Social Science Dhaka University - Dhaka, BD July 2010 Skills DATABASE (1 year), DJANGO (1 year), JAVASCRIPT (1 year), PYTHON (1 year), jQuery (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming: Python, Django, C,  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, Ajax, RESTful.  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, UNIX, RedHat, CentOS  Database: MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQLite, MongoDB.  Software Tools: PyCharm, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, sublime Text, GitHub  Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall