Software Development Consultant Software Development Consultant Software Developer Audubon, NJ Motivated software developer with professional experience using Python, SQL and UNIX in the finance industry. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Development Consultant FDM Group - New York, NY August 2015 to April 2017 • Completed UNIX, SQL, and Python training courses at the FDM Academy in New York prior to working on-site at Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BAML) within their Zinc Equities Development team for 18 months.  • Took online classes using the Pluralsight and Codeschool platform to review Java, JavaScript, and JQuery concepts following completion of placement at BAML. Consulting Python Developer Bank of America Merrill Lynch - New York, NY September 2015 to March 2017 • Actively participated throughout the agile JIRA software development lifecycle requiring developers to provide unit and integration testing evidence in development and User Acceptance Testing environments.  • Communicated the nature and scope of production environment code changes to users, QA and production support personnel, conveying specific testing and release procedures, requirements and expected results.  • Analyzed logs of SQL query extracts from various databases to capture the usage of particular schema elements and to evaluate individual extract and overall database performance.  • Implemented a UI developer tool that provides users with a graphical view of the active Zinc database schemas with the functionality to display linkages between tables, table dimensions and table metadata.  • Refactored and optimized an API for providing system-wide risk error reports to risk data stewards.  • Designed and developed a full regression testing framework for error reporting API including documentation of process and testing flow as a reference for production support teams. Administrative/Marketing Assistant JKR Partners LLC - Philadelphia, PA June 2012 to 2013 2014  • Catalogued, organized and migrated past and present architectural projects onto a digital archive  • Created and updated project, client and internal administrative spreadsheets and databases.  • Produced and delivered status reports to the partners, contacts and clients involved in each project.  • Revised and edited architectural specs for grammatical and syntactic errors before distributing to clients such as The Philadelphia Housing Authority and Dranoff Properties. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Colgate University - Hamilton, NY August 2011 to May 2015 Skills JAVA (1 year), PYTHON (3 years), SQL (3 years), DATABASE (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (6 years), UNIX (2 years) Links http://github.com/mgeorges Additional Information Technical Skills  • Professional experience with the following technical languages: Python, SQL, UNIX  • Experience using relational database management systems and tools such as Oracle, Paraccel and Netezza.  • Well-practiced using integrated development environments: Developing Python on QzDev (a Bank of America in-house development toolkit similar to PyDev and PyCharm), and developing Java on Eclipse.  • Used Github as a version control terminal for undergraduate projects. Github profile: github.com/mgeorges  • Exposure to various assembly, programming and scripting languages at multiple levels of abstraction through coursework: Java, Ruby, JavaScript, HTML, C, Haskell, MIPS  • Proficient knowledge of Microsoft tools: PowerPoint, Excel, Word, and Outlook.