Graduate Decision Engineering Intern Graduate Decision Engineering Intern Graduate Student | www.udaiarora.com | Actively seeking summer internship 2014 Tempe, AZ Java, Node.js, Python, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap, PHP, MySQL, Adobe Photoshop,Cloud Computing (SaaS; PaaS; IaaS), Service Oriented Computing, Big Data, Git/Gitbash, C, C++, C#, Eclipse, Sublime Text, Xcode, Microsoft Office, etc Work Experience Graduate Decision Engineering Intern Intel Corp - Chandler, AZ May 2014 to Present Responsibilities  ? Enhanced and customized an Open-source project “Handsontable”- an Excel-like Data Grid Editor  ? Created multiple views in MS SQL Server Manager  ? Built a Single Page Application using AngularJS which consumes RESTful APIs  ? Experimented with Data visualization libraries such as D3js Python Grader Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ August 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities  Grading and giving Feedback to Students. Assisting Prof with the course. Developer Hewlett-Packard R&D - Bangalore, Karnataka January 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities  esponsibilities included building various prototypes and User Experience for products. The User Experience was aimed at elevating technical complexities to a usable product. The prototypes and products included a Reservation System- used by gate agents to book tickets and add services; a Departure Control system- to manage check-ins. These modules aim to replace the current command line interface used by gate agents and at the same time, maintain their efficiency. A product called EMD was also built which is to be used by Airports and Airlines to manage ancillary fees and services. Customers included Swiss Air, American Airlines, Air China, Brussels and Olympic. A Windows 8 app and an Android app for the Reservation System was developed, thereby giving our Customers a true Cross-Platform Experience.     Skills Used  HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, JSON, NodeJS, HandleBars, etc Intern Videocon 2011 to 2011 Intern Wipro 2010 to 2010 Education MS in Computer Science Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ 2013 to 2015 B.E. in CSE Manipal University 2008 to 2012 Skills Software Development, Web Development, Front End Development, Cloud Computing, Big Data, etc Links http://www.udaiarora.com