AWS DevOps Engineer AWS DevOps Engineer Cloud DevOps Engineer Atlanta, GA • Experience on Amazon Web Services, identification of appropriate techniques and methods using various AWS services like Amazon EC2, S3, VPC, IAM, EBS, ELB and Auto-scaling to code and implement cloud solution.  • Experience with automation tools such as Ansible, Terraform, chef and Jenkins.  • Implemented automated testing platforms and unit tests using Python, writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Excellent working knowledge in Linux shell environments using command line utilities and developed various Shell scripts to handle miscellaneous tasks.  • Expertise in working with different databases like Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, and acquired good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB.  • Experience in working with Agile and waterfall SDLC, STLC.  • Extensive experience on Performance and tuning of Application Databases in complex environment and Query optimization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AWS DevOps Engineer Flextronics, Milpitas July 2017 to December 2017 Description: Flex Ltd. is an American multinational technological manufacturer. It is the third largest global electronics manufacturing services, original design Manufacturer Company by revenue, behind only Taiwan's Pegatron to original equipment manufacturers.    • Hands on experience with an in-depth level of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS cloud-specific technologies like Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Simple Storage Services (S3), Route 53, Cloud Formation, Elastic IPs, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), RDS and Cloud Watch, SNS & SES.  • The writing of any required scripts (in Python), scripting templates or associated code necessary to meet the requirements of the environment which included creating jobs in Jenkins to execute the scripts including AWS python scripts (boto3) to automate the build out of dev and production environments.  • Configured Elastic Load Balancers with EC2 Auto Scaling groups. Optimized volumes and EC2 instances and created multi AZ VPC instances. Good understanding of AWS Elastic Block Storage (EBS), various volume types and utilization of different types of EBS volumes based on requirement.  • Configured S3 lifecycle of Applications and Database logs, including deleting old logs, archiving logs based on the retention policy of Apps and Databases. Implement and maintain the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/costs using Cloud Watch.  • Created detailed AWS Security Groups, which behaved as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances. Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, S3 buckets, Virtual Private Clouds (VPC), Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Deployed applications on AWS by using Elastic Beanstalk.  • Understanding of secure-cloud configuration (Cloud Trail, AWS Config), cloud-security technologies (VPC, Security Groups, etc.) and cloud-permission systems (IAM).  • Creating snapshots and Amazon machine images (AMIs) of the instances for backup and creating clone instances.  • Experienced with AWS Cloud Formation templates on creating IAM Roles & total architecture deployment end to end (creation of EC2 instances and its infrastructure).  • Build and configured virtual Data center in Amazon cloud to support Enterprise hosting which includes VPC, public, private subnets, Security groups and Route tables.  • Implemented DNS service through Route 53 on ELBs to achieve secured connection via https. Experienced in architecting and configuring secure VPC through private and public networks in AWS.  • Good knowledge on experience with AWS Redshift. Experience working on Administering various AWS Services using Amazon AWS Console, CLI in Linux and windows environment and by using Amazon API using Python.  • Configured Infrastructure as a code through Ansible and continuous deployment through Jenkins.  • Utilized Cloud Watch to monitor resources such as EC2, CPU memory, Amazon RDS services, EBS volumes, to set alarms for notification or automated actions and to monitor logs for a better understanding and operation of the system.  Environment: AWS EC2, VPC, S3, Cloud Formation, Boto3, ELB, RDS, Ansible, Terraform, Jenkins. Cloud/DevOps Engineer Wheelhouse Pvt Ltd July 2013 to June 2015 • Involved in deploying the content cloud platform on Amazon AWS using EC2, S3, and EBS.  • Setting up Live Environment on IIS/Apache Web Servers with various AWS Services EC2, VPC, LB, S3, RDS and Route53 including Reverse Proxy, Load Balancing, Monitoring, Backup and Migration tasks.  • Proficient in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation AWS Configuration, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, IAM, S3, and R53.  • Set-up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Used Docker as a new level of simplicity for defining and creating applications or services by encapsulating them in containers.  • Maintained high availability clustered and standalone server environments and refined automation components with scripting and configuration management using Ansible.  • Create, build Ansible playbooks including automation scripts with Python and Bash.  • Designed and implemented scalable, secure cloud architecture based on Amazon Web Services.  • Created Cloud formation stacks to easily provision resources in the AWS cloud and customized infrastructure as a code using Terraform.  • Create and maintain custom IAM policies for the groups to allow access to specific portions of the AWS resources.  • Worked with various AWS EC2, S3, CloudFront, VPC, IAM, SQS, Lambda, Kinesis and Route53 CLI tools.  • Worked on migration project of moving current application in Microsoft Azure to AWS using AWS services.  • Maintained the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53, SES and SNS services in AWS cloud.  • Launched AmazonEC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services (Linux/ Ubuntu) and configured the launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates.  • Monitored system issues/updates for all assigned applications throughout the entire SDLC verified requirements were accurate, functional and implemented successfully within the timelines specified. Python Developer- Intern Prime Technologies May 2012 to June 2013 • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Wrote and executed various SQL database queries from Python using Python-SQL connector and SQL dB package.  • Analyzed performance test requirements and developed test plans and have done debugging to understand test objective requirements. Education Masters in Computer Engineering Florida Institute of Technology - Melbourne, FL 2017 Bachelor's in Electronics and Communication Engineering Sri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology - Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu 2015 Skills AWS (4 years), PYTHON (3 years), SCRIPTING (3 years), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (4 years), DATABASES (4 years) Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect- Associate March 2018 to March 2020 Additional Information SKILLS: -  Programming Languages: Python, SQL, PostgreSQL Shell Scripting  Cloud Services: EC2, VPC, NAT, S3, Glacier, Cloud Front, Storage Gateway, Snowball, Route 53, SNS, SQS, SWS, Kinesis, Elastic Load Balancing, API Gateway, Elastic container Server, Microsoft Azure  Serverless platform: AWS Lambda  Frameworks: Django, Flask  API: REST  Web Technologies: HTML  Version Control: Github, SVN, CVS  Configuration Management CI/CD: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Openstack, Chef, Jenkins, Ansible, Terraform, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront, Elastic Beanstalk  Monitoring tool: AWS Cloudwatch, Splunk  Containerization tool: Docker, Kubernetes  Virtualization: VMware ESXi  Databases:, Oracle, DynamoDB, RDS, Redshift, Elastic cache, Aurora, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, NoSQL, MongoDB  Operating Systems: Linux, Redhat, Ubuntu, Windows, Mac OS  SDLC Methodologies: Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP