Software Engineer (Remote, Contractor) Software Engineer (Remote, Contractor) Software Engineer (Remote, Contractor) - CuZtoms Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer (Remote, Contractor) CuZtoms - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to Present • Built websites for clients using Python with Flask for the backend and HTML, CSS, React for the frontend.   • Deployed applications using AWS Elastic Beanstalk and PostgreSQL Amazon RDS  • Project Ex: Developed a WebScraper application in Python using Selenium to search and find products online with certain criteria.  • Worked on certain projects in a small agile scrum team of 5 developers, with sprints of two weeks and a focus on TDD.   • Tried to encourage on the importance of testing using nose and selenium, and the value of refactoring and clean code. Python Developer/System Admin (Remote), I.S.K GA - Atlanta, GA October 2014 to December 2016 • Built websites for clients using Python with Flask for the backend and HTML, CSS, React for the frontend.   • Created Rest APIs for different website endpoints. Used PostgreSQL with Amazon RDS.  • Worked on projects using the traditional waterfall paradigm working primarily with the coding, unit-testing, and deployment.  • Project Ex: Created a student/parent/ teacher portal for a private school using Flask and React.   • Project Ex: Arranged large scale client migration to AWS EC2 deployment over the course of 6 months.  • Setup, configured, deployed, and managed Linux based Servers (CentOs7) using VMware ESXI VSphere 6.5 and Apache with Mod_WSGI. Setup and deployed a VOIP server using the open source program Asterisk.  • Setup & managed the network infrastructure of our Routers, Switches.   • Implemented various standard methods to secure our network, such as port forwarding, SSH authentication for remote access, custom static IP routes for our network devices, and set very strict user permissions and access privileges across our devices. Setup custom service groups, address objects, and NAT policies for our webservers and different segments of our network. Used DHCP server to reserve blocks of IP’s per area.  • Created automation scripts and software for clients such as a mass texting application using the Twilio API, and a Regex application that extracted phone numbers and emails from directories and organized them automatically in excel spreadsheets using openpyxl. Network Analyst Vonage Business - Marietta, GA June 2015 to March 2016 • Was responsible for resolving 15-30 cases daily for trouble tickets submitted in salesforce.  • Configured home/ enterprise level firewalls.  • Troubleshot/ fixed networking issues related to latency/jitter, software/os issues, defective hardware, improper networking infrastructure, server issues, and system bugs.  • Provisioned VOIP phones, and set the call flows, routing, and voicemail options for clients.  • Created detailed reports using salesforce. Education Bachelor's Degree in is a level 6 on the EQF Board of Education in France March 2018 Skills AMAZON ELASTIC BEANSTALK (Less than 1 year), Amazon Elastic Block Storage (Less than 1 year), AWS. (Less than 1 year), Linux (1 year), Python (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/MFarazAhmad Additional Information SKILLS  • Languages: Proficient: Python, Node.js /JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL | Familiar: C, Java  • Web Frameworks: Flask, WebApp2, Express, React  • Other Technologies: Linux, Git, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, SQL-Alchemy, Apache   • Cloud Platforms: AWS (EC2, EBS, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda) | Google Cloud (App Engine, Firebase) | Heroku  • Testing Frameworks: Selenium, Unittest, Nose