Python developer Intern <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Intern Python developer Intern Philadelphia, PA • Overall 2+ years of IT experience in Python development and creation of web pages using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS etc.  • Developed Web-based application using Python, CSS and HTML.  • Good experience on Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix, Linux, Python scripting focused on DevOps tools, CD/CI and AWS cloud architecture.  • Developed Web application using Django/ Python and Node.js  • Expertise in Academic projects which includes Database development using My SQL and SQL SERVER etc.  • Strong understanding and Implementation of Database Technologies and writing T-SQL queries.  • Implemented Algorithms such as RSA in Cloud Servers.  • Good understanding and Knowledge on DevOps tools and Services like Ansible, Jenkins, Puppet, Docker containers, Nagios.  • Worked on Linux machines in LVMs, networking, working with files and directories, and Shell Scripting.  • Working knowledge on AWS EC2, S3, Cloud formation, and EBS Volumes.  • Strong knowledge of object-oriented programming towards front-end libraries in Python and Java.  • Experience using Python to create interactive web applications, mainly focusing at increasing performance.  • Used JQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS for front end web designing  • Solid understanding of object oriented and web technologies.  • Worked on applications using Python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, and NetBeans.  • Hands on experience in developing of applications using HTML, XML, JavaScript and web services.  • Experience in core java concepts such as Collection framework, Multithreading and Exception Handling.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, self-starter, and good team player.  • Good knowledge on Amazon Web Service (AWS). Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python developer Intern Invictus Infotech July 2016 to January 2017 • Create a Python application for ERM system.  • Used Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Designed and developed components using Python.  • Designed unit test framework for new code.  • Used GIT Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Implemented database access and data manipulation functions using MySQL.  • Update and Replace Java, C++ application in Python.  • Used AWS CLI from Redhat-7 machine to implement AWS Services.  • Install and configured Jenkins Plugins, Docker.  • Configured Ansible and wrote YML files to implement in Client Side  • Install configure and monitor scripts for AWS instances.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process. Jr. Python Developer Graks Infotech June 2013 to July 2014 • Wrote Python scripts to manipulate files and update the content in the database.  • Modified the existing Java files to achieve the required functionality for desktop applications.  • Gathered requirements to automate report generation which reduced huge manual effort.  • Worked on Python Numpy library to perform various complex operations. Education Masters in Information System Technology in MIS Wilmington University May 2016 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Adobe Photoshop (Less than 1 year), AWS (Less than 1 year), BI (Less than 1 year), Python (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Python, SQL, C, C++, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML  Framework .NET, XML, MySQL, Bootstrap  BI Tools Tableau 8.x/7.x/6.x  IDE's & Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, GIT, SQL Server, and Microsoft Visual Studio  Software Tools UML, Microsoft Visual Studio, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop  Operating System Web Services Windows, Linux, Mac Amazon web Service (AWS)