Software Engineer Intern ( Python) Software Engineer Intern (<span class="hl">Python</span>) Software Engineer Intern ( Python) - Port Zero Ventures Daly City, CA • Proficient in Java, Python, and R; experience in Ruby on Rails, C++, JavaScript, HTML and PHP.  • Proficient in algorithm and data structure; experience in database management, MySQL.  • Hands-on experience in data analysis with Python and R, IOS mobile application development with  React Native. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Intern ( Python) Port Zero Ventures - San Francisco, CA June 2018 to Present Google Ads Automation: Implemented Python crawler to grab data into specific format and import to Google  AdWords automatically. Increased profits for the company by 10 percent and saved advertising budget by 20  percent.  ? Ruby on Rails Web Development: Deploy ruby on rails with docker to develop web applications and consumer  based features. Full-Stack Web Developer ( Python) HelpCare Connect - Madison, WI January 2018 to June 2018 Front-end Web Development: Web design and development using HTML and PHP.  ? Document Classification: Implemented Naive Bayes Algorithm for documents classification. Achieved 96.8  percent accuracy for over hundreds of documents. Technology Consultant Madison, WI March 2016 to May 2018 Change Management: Provided technology support to Canvas course migration from Moodle, and test usability  of different Moodle versions.  ? Course Design: Assisted university faculty, staff and students in course design via phone or in person. Research Assistant (Java, C Sharp) Wisconsin Human-Computer Interaction Laboratory - Madison, WI January 2017 to January 2018 Algorithm Design and Testing: Effectively designed, implemented and tested the Confusion Detection  Algorithm using Convoluted Neural Networks.  ? API Creation: Built API based on Duolingo website and designed tests as a validation method to test the Confusion Detection Algorithm.  ? HRI Platform Development(ROS): Built linux system-based robotic platforms which use Kinect tracker to track human objects. Front End Developer ( Python, JavaScript, HTML) The UW - Madison, WI October 2016 to April 2017 IOS Development: Executed and contributed to a full-stack Mobile App development project where users can  learn foreign languages and teach native languages as exchange.  ? React Native: Designed and developed views/templates on top of Javascript, using the React Native framework.  ? Data Collection: Implemented web crawlers to automatically fetch data on stackexchange.com and realized  format converter to store in MySQL database. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Statistics in Computer Science and Statistics University of Wisconsin - Madison, WI September 2014 to May 2018 Links https://github.com/zhang587