Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fulfillment Associate Sacramento, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Mike's Mobile - Sacramento, CA July 2018 to Present Managing one on site developer and 1 remote contractor.   Senior developer of store's Angular SPA, including upgrade to Angular 6 and Angular Universal.   Primary point of contact for SEO contractor and responsible for implementation of suggested improvements.   Responsible for integration of existing field application with Microsoft Dynamics CRM back end.   Built out AWS endpoints for company website and in store application.  Used Linux in Back-end administration.  Used Github for version control.  Worked jointly with onsite front end developer on company's Angular website, including debugging HTML CSS and Javascript with Mobile First Development as the priority.  Closed over 50 tickets presented by employees and superiors at Mike's Mobile. Fulfillment Associate Amazon 2017 to 2018 Assist in sorting and packaging of warehouse inventory for distribution. Retail Systems Developer Fite Development - Sacramento, CA 2015 to 2017 In store IT support, programming in:   PHP - Maintaining and extending existing store WordPress site, including events page and class registration page.  C#/SQL - Prototyped solution for member benefits tracking with MySql Relational Database back end and C# MVC architecture on the front end. Discontinued in favor of vendor solution.  Developed marketing and inventory systems for store:  Marketing- Responsible for distribution of monthly sales to MailChimp, in store CCTVs, and physical flyers.  Inventory - Wrote standard operating procedures for complete inventory and was responsible for over $100,000 in inventory management. Website Designer tenenbaumart.com 2014 to 2016 Python Application Developer Baxtor's Auto Works tenenbaumart.com - Riverside, CA 2014 to 2014 Built data scraper script in python for retail sites: Craigslist and cycletrader.com . Requests allowed for custom parameters based on user input. Made use of Python's Requests library and parsed request output using the Beautiful soup library. Configured it to export to CSV files so client could analyze his requests using existing systems. Client was satisfied with product. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science California State University December 2016 Skills PYTHON (1 year), ACCESS (Less than 1 year), BACK END (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), Front End (React & Redux) (1 year), HTML (3 years), CSS (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Shipping Additional Information SKILLS  Scripting/Programming Languages: Ruby, Javascript (React), HTML/CSS, SQL, Python,  C, C++  Engineering Tools: MS Office, Amazon Web Services, Photoshop  Platforms/systems: Windows (XP, Vista, 7, 10) Linux (Ubuntu)    RELATED PROJECTS  SQL DB Admin  • Architected, implemented and completed a relational database in MS Access. Used as a  reference for the management during firearm inventories.  Senior Project  • Lead of a team of 6 in the Scrum Agile framework.  • Implemented a record keeping database for a Sacramento Diner. Application written in the  Ruby on Rails framework and JQuery.  • Responsible for writing 70% of the code for the application, and lead presenter for final  report to 7 faculty members.  C# Benefit Tracking Application  • Wrote 70% of a C# application for tracking a member's benefits (firearm rentals, free  cleanings etc.) in C# with a MS Access back end.  • Intended audience was employees with an eventual transition to member facing as well.  Web Scraper  • Wrote Python 3 application to scrape auction data from craigslist.com and other auction  websites for price analysis.  • Implemented using Python's Requests and BeautifulSoup libraries.