Senior software engineer Senior software engineer Senior software engineer Moscow, ID I am a python/golang engineer. For the last four years I have been developing backend applications in early stage startups. Work Experience Senior software engineer Edwin.ai March 2017 to April 2019 Developing AI-powered service used for preparing students for  standardized English tests such as TOEFL and TOEIC. When I  joined the company, the product was at the prototype stage, now it  has more than 1 million students and it's the top 1 bot on Facebook in the Education category.  I was responsible for the full development cycle of the backend:  architecture design, tools and technology selection, developing,  deploying and maintaining.  During a hackathon inside the company, I wrote a framework for building dialog systems.    Stack: python3, react.js, postgres, neo4j, rabbitmq. Back-end developer Snaappy Inc June 2016 to March 2017 Developed infrastructure for instant messaging service.  The most loaded parts were optimized by writing in golang. As a result, the messenger handles up to 1M users and can be easily  auto-scaled. Also Implemented a webRTC signaling server.    Stack: python3, golang, drf, mongoDB, rabbitmq, redis, postgresql. Core developer Facemash open source project February 2016 to June 2016 Developed Facemash bot in telegram messenger.    Stack: golang, mongoDB.  Source code: https://github.com/gazoon/instarate System developer Stack November 2015 to February 2016 My task was to optimize existing algorithms written in C language. Python Developer National Research Nuclear University September 2015 to November 2015 Wrote scripts to optimize the workflow. System administrator VNIPI March 2015 to August 2015 Was responsible for maintaining hardware. Education Bachelor's in Information technology National Research Nuclear University MEPhI - Moscow, ID September 2014 to June 2017 Skills django (4 years), Python (4 years), golang (4 years), sql (4 years), PostgresSQL (4 years), mongodb (3 years), docker (1 year), neo4j (2 years) Links https://linkedin.com/in/georgy-savva-ba92b4126 https://github.com/gazoon Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information I am a software engineer. For last four years I’ve been developing cloud based applications. I know how to build and ship products from the idea stage to production. I have deep understanding of the development processes. I worked at startups in an early stage and can easily adapt to a fast-evolving business condition.    Technical skills:    Fluency in python3 and golang;  Experience working with SQL/NoSQL databases with various data models: postgres, redis, mongodb, neo4j, kafka, consul;  Deep understanding of distributed systems: both theoretical basis and implementation details in real-world production systems;  Building of fault tolerant, horizontally scalable systems. Microservice architecture;  Excellent knowledge of algorithms and data structures;  Experience writing code in multithreaded/concurrent environment;  Responsible for testing own code;  Other tools & frameworks: elixir, rabbitmq, django/drf, tornado, amazon S3, websocket, webrtc, sentry, postman, docker, postgis, gcm, apns;  APIs: google, facebook, stripe, amazon, telegram, mixpanel, twilio, instagram, youtube;  Had experience working remotely and in a distributed team;  Would love to work with new technologies such as: riak kv, cockroachDB, rust;