Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Giddings, TX Highly qualified, detail-oriented and tech-savvy Web Developer with three years of professional experience, demonstrating such in leading projects using various methodologies and programming languages. Adept at leading the design, implementation, testing, debugging, and maintenance of web-based software applications while ensuring compliance with stringent time and budget constraints. Currently seeking a position as a Junior Software Developer which will effectively utilize all acquired skills, abilities, and areas of expertise as follows: Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer T3 - Austin, TX August 2018 to Present Create and maintain proprietary django rest framework adapters in order to integrate with multiple payment partners    Create and sync unit tests within infrastructure to automate through devOps ? Pass over 28 integration tests with singular partner     Responsible for all tickets and bugs for all adapters  Contribute to proprietary core library used for all adapters   Worked within a microservices architecture  EHR Template Developer Versasuite - Austin, TX September 2015 to Present Responsibilities  Create and edit templates work within a proprietary macro language and meet short deadlines promptly.    Accomplishments  Helped create a highly productive environment where we're always ahead of our deadlines. Full Stack Developer PUMPCO INC - Giddings, TX July 2017 to August 2018 • Sole full stack developer responsible for taking web and phone application concept to production.  • Develop and maintain database infrastructure and turn paper processes digital to obtain and extract critical  • data to create reports to ultimately save money and track efficiency across multiple departments in the  • company.  •  http://pumpcorepair.com? (Angular2, Ruby on Rails, Django, MySQL)  ? Built out Mobile development   Created $8,100,000,000 in direct revenue (Users doing something 10-15 times a day, replacing paperwork  ? Responsible for all tickets and bugs for all adapters  ? Contribute to proprietary core library used for all adapters ? Worked within a microservices architecture  July. 2017 - August 24th, 2018  that otherwise cost 12 minutes, over 250k users that make a median wage of $30/hr.)  Full Stack Web Developer Kaemark - Giddings, TX September 2016 to May 2017 Create, develop and maintain from concept to creation full scale production applications to automate paper processes General Manager Star Delivery Service of Austin - Austin, TX May 2014 to June 2016 Head Dispatcher/Assistant Manager -  -Driver and Client Retention and maintenance  -Business to business Cold-call Sales  - Capture and file away all driver information electronically  - Keep inventory of and Supply badges and shirts to all drivers  - Track payroll for route drivers  - Advise General Manager, Vice President of efficiencies and inefficiencies with programs and/or current operations with drivers and clients.  - Sustaining and growing business from the ground-up by marketing Education High school Skills Proficient programming in HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Python, Django web framework, JavaScript, Nginx, Gunicorn Links http://www.github.com/Chameleon87 http://codepen.io/jessehodge Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information * Over three years of competitive quality call center experience  * Two years of middle management experience