Applications Developer Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Junior Full Stack Developer Streamwood, IL 1+ year of experience in the IT industry through Co-Op and full time experience as a Junior Software Developer. Expertise on OOP concepts, Java, DB2, RPG, Database Architecture (Relational DB), web development, and SDLC. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Applications Developer Credentials Inc. - Northfield, IL June 2017 to Present Responsibilities: Main role includes but not limited to building and maintaining applications from ground up through each phase of the SDLC, system enhancements to automate manual tasks, and meeting client needs for special requests around the current processes.  – Server-side and client-side application development in Java, RPG, Javascript, CSS, and HTML in an IBM i environment.  – System enhancement functions   – Responsible for all aspects of SDLC for assigned projects in Agile environment  – Test Driven Development mindset PHP developer College Work - Chicago, IL January 2017 to May 2017 Only PHP developer in a system integration project using LAMP Stack in a team of 5. Responsibilities of integrating front end web application to back end in PHP. Implementing sessions, user authentication, preventing SQL injections, and writing to Master DB and reading from the slave DB. Java Developer College Work - Chicago, IL January 2017 to May 2017 Using Java Swing GUI and the JDBC API to create a ticket system in Eclipse. The application authenticated users to create a ticket and the DBA changes the status of the tickets once the ticket is addressed. Web Developer College Work - Chicago, IL August 2016 to May 2017 Using HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript, a four-page site was built from scratch. The pages were the layout of a user's profile. Used JavaScript for a slideshow, popups and event listening, CSS for styling and layout, and HTML for the content of the sites. Business Analyst Co-Op MARATHON PETROLEUM COMPANY LP - Findlay, OH June 2016 to January 2017 Automation test scripts using SAP TAO, HP UFT and HP ALM to build, maintain, and troubleshoot autonomous test scripts – Specification documentation and meeting client requirements for tests – Exposure to development ASP.Net framework using C# in Visual Studio Python Developer College Work - Chicago, IL 2016 to 2017 April 2016 to August 2016  Python project where a connection is created to a SQLite database and users are able to create a phone directory. Users are granted all CRUD functions of persistent storage to the database. Also projects like library inventory checking or updating books using sets, tuples, for loops, dictionaries, and other core fundamentals of Python. DBA College Work - Chicago, IL August 2016 to December 2016 Created a relational database design for restaurants in the Chicagoland area. Responsibilities of making tables, and queries to organize all the data by normalizing using SQL Developer tool and MySQL. Java Developer College Work - Chicago, IL August 2015 to December 2015 Using Swing components in Java, a GUI application was made to create a payroll system where an authenticated user can create and read payroll information about an employee which is fetched and generated from a text file. Education Bachelors in Information Technology and Management Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL August 2015 to May 2017 William Rainey Harper College - Palatine, IL August 2012 to December 2014 Skills JAVA (2 years), CSS (2 years), HTML (2 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), PHP (Less than 1 year), MySQL (Less than 1 year), RPG (1 year), Linux (1 year), Db2 (1 year), Git (1 year), Agile (1 year), JQuery (1 year), SAP Tao (Less than 1 year), HP ALM (Less than 1 year), HP UFT (Less than 1 year), Asp.Net (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Co-Curricular Activities/Achievements:  # Participating in a flag football team at IIT.  # Co-author of a paper about data networking in real-time media vs streaming media.  # Participated in a catapult building competition in Harper College and placing 1st place in height and 2nd place in  distance.  # Have won Outstanding Academic Standings award for 2 years in a row.  # Volunteered in many community events during the MPC co-op experience.