Full Stack Software Developer Full Stack Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Software Developer As a highly responsible and ambitious professional with 4 years of experience as a software developer, I'm looking for a REMOTE, PART-TIME Backend or Full Stack Software Developer role at a Product company or Startup.     I have significant experience building production web applications. My core expertise focused on backend development, but I can jump into the frontend development as needed. I have a deep understanding of designing systems and microservices.    I'm passionate about building and growing new great products. I've successfully designed, developed and launched 7 services which have more than 250 000 unique users.    My full work experience described here: https://www.visualcv.com/beskorovaina-marina/ Work Experience Full Stack Software Developer Key2Lyf March 2018 to December 2018 Key2lyf.com is passwords sharing tool in the case of emergency. Provides to your family access to your passwords and accounts when something terrible happened to you.    Responsibilities:  • Application architecture  • Full-stack development    Technology stack: Python, Django, PostgreSQL, HTML+CSS+JS, Cryptography Head of Product WheelerConsulting LLC September 2017 to May 2018 SecondFactor.io is a key-recovery service for crypto wallets.    Part-time position. Was combined with Full Stack Developer.    Responsibilities:  • Development and implementation of the company's technical development strategy.  • Participation in the evaluation of new and ongoing projects of the company: analysis, choice of technologies, proposals for technical solutions, assessment of financial, time costs and human resources.  • Building development processes.  • Manage and prioritize product requirements. Full Stack Developer WheelerConsulting LLC January 2016 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Design and define software architecture.  • Full-stack development of web services and admin dashboards.  • Design, implement and document APIs.  • Implement integration with Ethereum Blockchain.     Technology stack: Python, Django, PostgreSQL, HTML+CSS+JS+Bootstrap, Blockchain Integration, NodeJS, ExpressJS Backend Python Developer TRIO pay system July 2015 to December 2015 TRIO pay system is fast and reliable way to pay for your services.    Responsibilities:  • Development our own API and implementation API of other payment services.  • Development an admin dashboard as an analytical tool.    Technology stack: Python, Flask, Peewee, PostgreSQL, HTML+CSS+JS+Bootstrap Education Bachelor's in Management Dnepropetrovsk National University of Railway Transport 2002 to 2008 Skills Python (4 years), Django, Flask (4 years), MySQL/Postgres (4 years), HTML+CSS+JS+Bootstrap (4 years), Ethereum Blockchain Integration (2 years), Cryptography (1 year), Familiar with JavaScript including jQuery, NodeJS, ExpressJS, React (1 year) Links https://www.visualcv.com/beskorovaina-marina/ Additional Information Before transitioning into software development and product roles I've spent over the 9 years helping business find success as a marketer.    • CMO - 5 years   • Marketing consultant - 0.5 year  • Brand manager – 3 years  • Analyst - 1 year