Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Target Minneapolis, MN Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Target - Minneapolis, MN June 2017 to Present • Developing and maintaining a modern allocation system that dynamically positions product throughout the Target supply chain in order to maximize profit and minimize out of stocks.  • Spearheaded the research, architecture, and development for a new version of the software that is smarter, faster, and easier to support.  • Implemented a new allocation algorithm that solves all of the previous bugs while also providing a more flexible architecture, which supports customizable logic to allocate different types of product.  • Integrated a new mindset regarding effective code reviews and the importance of good software design. C++/ Python Engineer Belvedere Trading - Chicago, IL July 2016 to June 2017 • Established the infrastructure to regression test our trading algorithms using Behave in Python.  • Refactored approximately 1000 unit tests to be more reliable while simultaneously reducing run-time on the tests by a few minutes.  • Designed, built, and deployed a python service to listen for broker-placed orders, insert them into our system, and populate the front end GUI for our traders to view alongside theoretical prices.  • Conducted research and development for a proprietary C++ exchange simulator service to make dev testing and QA testing faster and more controllable while simultaneously building front end in ReactJS.  • Contributed to the development of an in-house python service that manages other services connections using a consumer/producer paradigm. This application also contains a front end GUI with ReactJS. Student Developer Senior Design Project - Automated Vehicle September 2015 to June 2016 • Designed and developed the software for an automated vehicle to compete in the SparkFun challenge using a BeagleBone and Arduino.   • Wrote C code to allow a vehicle to navigate a course of obstacles by itself. Student Developer Fantasy Football Lineup Optimizer September 2015 to June 2016 • Envisioned and developed a web application to optimize a fantasy football lineup. For a given week in the NFLseason, player prices from DraftKings, and statistics for each player, this algorithm could calculate the potential return for a given player and optimize a lineup.   • Algorithm focuses on time and space efficiency. MeteorJS Developer Intern TIES - Saint Paul, MN May 2015 to January 2016 • Collaborated in the development of EdSpring, a MeteorJS application used by over 200 school districts that allows the school to monitor student performance throughout their academic careers.  • Located and fixed over 50 tickets in 3 months while simultaneously developing other feature enhancement such as refactoring the code to be more web accessible.  • Company requested I extend my internship beyond the summer and allowed me to work remotely through my final year in college based on my valuable contribution to the overall project. Education Bachelors of Science in Software Engineering Iowa State University August 2012 to May 2016 Skills Python, Java, C++