Developer / Production Support Analyst <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Production Support Analyst Production Support / Software Engineer - BNP Paribas CIB New York, NY Canadian Software Engineer (currently based in France) with a strong interest in multimedia and mission-critical investment banking systems looking to relocate from Paris to New York City ASAP for new challenging and exciting career opportunities.    Throughout my previous roles, I have gained experience in banking application production support, relational databases, systems automation, software design and development using a variety of high-level object-oriented programming languages (such as Java and C++) and scripting languages ( Python, Unix Shell Scripting, PL/SQL and Powershell). I am passionate about my profession and will never stop seeking fresh and interesting challenges to tackle. I have a strong sense of teamwork, communication, organization and initiative and will never give up in the face of pressure and uncertainty. I am keen on getting things done right, love learning about new technologies and will always make the best effort to keep my technical skills and business knowledge up to the level that is required for the tasks that I am given. Work Experience Developer / Production Support Analyst BNP Paribas CIB - Paris (75) March 2010 to Present - Develop software solutions to increase the efficiency, continuity and reliability of day-to-day production activities (e.g. application morning checks, system & data sanity checks, data feeds monitoring, daily backups, disaster recovery and application configuration tools).    - Design, implement and maintain a multi-threaded fault tolerant Linux daemon in Java that is capable of automatically and securely transferring sensitive trade data to/from multiple external firms in the capital markets industry.    - Automate transfers of financial data (CDS, IRS, FX) between the bank's internal infrastructure and external clearing houses (LCH.Clearnet SwapClear, ForexClear, RepoClear, ICE Link, ICE Clear Europe, ICE Clear Credit, CME).    - Build a tool in Python that enables the team to efficiently trace, debug and resolve issues related to the delivery of data files between hundreds of Unix servers across the bank.    - Write scripts to automate recurrent tasks and daily batches, and to detect / fix business critical data issues during the resolution phase of production incidents (Powershell, Unix shell scripts, Python, SQL*Loader, PL/SQL).    - Research and fix software bugs in proprietary J2EE systems.    - Write unit and non-regression tests (JUnit).    - Integrate a data obfuscation workflow within the bank's applications.    - Design and implement an extensible file system event monitoring tool using Java and Spring.    - Develop a bulk emailing tool in Java that enables the team to efficiently perform mass email communications to the business users of a specific system.    - Setup new XML and SQL data feeds between various internal systems.    - Participate in the 24/7 global support activities of client reference data, client management, data exchange and post-trade reporting applications based on a wide range of technologies, i.e. middlewares (IBM Websphere MQ, Oracle AQ), file transfers (CFT, FTP, SFTP, FTPS, HTTP/S), shared market infrastructures (BT Radianz), proprietary .NET / J2EE software, web services, CRM (Siebel), cloud computing platforms (Salesforce), corporate data protection architectures (Radius DataShelter), relational DBs (Oracle, SQL Server, Sybase) and NoSQL DBs (MongoDB).    - Apply analytical skills to identify and resolve complex technical issues in live/production environments.     - Define software release & contingency plans.    - Handle the global communication of production incidents and escalate to the development teams and management when necessary.    - Assist the business analysts in defining software requirements for the supported systems.  Provide solutions, workarounds, change request implementations, and advice to various technical and operational teams within the bank. IT Consultant Planaxis Canada / Alti France - Montréal, QC February 2010 to Present - Provide on-site IT consulting services to the firm’s clients located in France. Software Developer (C++/ Python) - Internship Autodesk - Montréal, QC September 2008 to December 2008 Enhance the team's SCons dev / build environment ( Python).    Simplify the application's UI in an effort to increase its usability.    Implement various regression tests, bug fixes & code optimizations (C++ & Python). Software Developer (C++/ Python) - Internship Autodesk - Montréal, QC January 2007 to August 2007 During this 8 month internship, I have worked on a series of new features within the 2008 version of Toxik, Autodesk's node-based film compositing software. Most of these features were related to media file import tasks and specifications, such as:    * Ability to import and parameterize motion vectors generated with 3dsMax, or with third-party 2D Motion Vectors Export Shaders for Maya.    * User configurable channel assignments and channel groups for multi-channel image file formats (OpenEXR).     * Ability to specify the import pixel format (bit depth, channels) for all media formats supported by Toxik.    * New unpremultiply feature accessible via the image import node.    * User configurable Import default settings.    Developed other features related to the UI workflow, the Python scripting API and Autodesk Wiretap clip imports. Analyst Programmer - Internship Banctec - Montréal, QC January 2006 to April 2006 Designed and implemented in VB.NET an in-house extensible configuration and support tool (MSCT) for the remittance processing software PayCourier Retail 2-Pass.    Implemented various extensions for MSCT.    Wrote PL/SQL scripts for facilitating maintenance operations. Computer Technician / Programmer Ministère de la sécurité publique du Québec - Montréal, QC June 2005 to August 2005 Carried out maintenance work on SGV, a proprietary database system for managing the visits of incarcerated people.    Designed and implemented new features to manage and keep track of the personal effects of incarcerated people.    Provided technical support and training to the users on site. Education B.Eng in Software Engineering Université du Québec - Ecole de Technologie supérieure 2005 to 2009 DEC in Computer Science Cégep du Vieux-Montréal - Montréal, QC 2002 to 2005 Skills Software Engineering, Software Design, Software Development, Production Support, Software Analysis, Design Patterns, Multithreading, Systems Monitoring, Operating Systems, Databases, Configuration Management, Shell Scripting, Image Processing, Game Development, Computer Graphics, Unit Testing, Software Integration, Software Profiling, Developement Processes, Release Management, Distributed Systems, Object Oriented Design Additional Information Specialties: Software Engineering  Programming: Java, C/C++, Python, PL/SQL, Bash, Powershell, VB.NET, MATLAB, XML, XPath, XSLT, XSD, DTD.  APIs: STL, Boost, Apache Commons, Spring.  Modeling: UML, Oracle Designer.  Databases: Oracle, SQL Server, MongoDB, Access.  IDEs: Emacs, Vi, Eclipse, Oracle JDeveloper, Visual Studio.  Configuration management: CVS, SVN, PVCS, Rational ClearCase.  Scheduling and Monitoring: Dollar Universe, UniJob, Sysload.  Operating systems: Windows, Linux.    Visa Status  Canadian Citizen. Will require a TN (Trade NAFTA) visa status to work in the U.S.