Application Architect V Application Architect V President - Brainy Maps New York, NY Work Experience Application Architect V Bank Of America - New York, NY July 2017 to Present Hybrid Cloud Infrastructure Development Python & Frontend Web Development Mentor Thinkful June 2015 to Present http://thinkful.com  Mentor students in web development as they work through a project-based curriculum. Guide students through the challenges of becoming a developer. Lead weekly one-on-one online student questions/answers sessions to provide  feedback on student code and projects. Systems Application Developer Python/PHP Columbia University Information Technology - New York, NY April 2016 to July 2017 Work on transitioning Columbia University to a Python stack while maintaining compatiblitiy with older technologies. This  includes creating and implementing a server flow working with older components to make sure nothing breaks. Recreate  improved versions of older applications in Python stack. Create man in the middle apps for older apps to interact with new  technologies.  Works with GIT, Flask, Blueprint, Service-Now, JIRA, Apache 2.2, Mod_WSGI, Oracle Database, Axure, Vagrant,  Virtualbox, Slack, Postman, LTI, Oauth1, Oauth2, REST, Sakai, Canvas, ServiceNow  Follows Agile SDLC, Made sure code is always up to PEP8 standards, and servers(with code) pass load tests  Onboard multiple python developers and got them up to speed getting them used to unittest, pylint, and OpenStack  Bandit  Gives workshops on development and server flows with Python  Expose flaws, exploits, problems and solutions during scrums, quickly figure out if requirements provided are  impossible or not Part Time Developer Work-bench - New York, NY November 2015 to July 2016 Working with Git, Heroku, Ruby, Middleman Framework, REST, Javascript, JSON, Twitter Bootstrap, SCSS, Media Queries to deliver a dynamic interactive mobile friendly revamp of the careers page for individuals to find open positions at all the companies that started at Work-bench. Full Stack Developer - Tech Lead Basics Plus January 2015 to June 2015 http://basicsplus.com  Recovered online sector of business. Trained new developers to be up to speed with maintaining the new site I created  utilizing Magento. Created product child sites for promos and individual products sold by Basics Plus. Managed and developed new feature for coffee pod site owned by Basics Plus.  Developed an e-commerce solution getting the company back online as a national online retailer  Interviewed and aided in hiring new employees for the SEO web team and web development  Magento, MySQL, SEO, Google Analytics, Google Adwords, PHP, Javascript, Jquery, GIT, CSS3, HTML5, Photoshop,  Photography, Twitter Bootstrap College Laboratory Technician New York City College Of Technology - New York, NY January 2014 to January 2015 http://citytech.cuny.edu  Assisted professors instruct courses, evaluate course plans, help teach and troubleshoot websites and video projects  created by students. Troubleshot computers, gave demonstrations on Emerging Technologies.  Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Premiere Pro, Pro Logic, Arduino, Raspberry Pi, MakerBot Printers, Education Hunter College 2014 to 2014 New York City College of Technology - New York, NY 2011 to 2013 Associates in Multimedia Programming & Design Borough of Manhattan Community College 2005 to 2010 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/plasnyc