Pipeline Python Developer Pipeline <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> San Francisco, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Pipeline Python Developer Tippett Studio - Berkeley, CA August 2016 to Present • Scripted and packaged numerous tools in Python for various departments as well as wrote make files for our C++ package builds ensuring that module dependencies were met.  • Held weekly coding meetings with department developers to review code quality, brush up on best practices, as well as ensure that departments were aware of changes in architecture in respect to Python libraries.  • Held meetings to demonstrate new tools and answer questions about functionality. This also gave departments an opportunity to discuss new tools and added features that would be needed going forward.  • Analyze asset performance using in house performance tools and work to improve efficiency through lighter assets and addressing slower performing nodes within animation software.  • Use in house batch rendering tools and Linux Shell Scripting to debug studio wide software and system problems whenever renders failed.  • Ingested media from outside vendors including color data in XML files and wrote Python Scripts to retrieve color space data for distribution and file organization within our studio hierarchy structure. Web Developer Freelance - San Francisco, CA February 2017 to March 2017 • Created website using the Django framework including all CSS, HTML, and Javascript functionality using database relationship modules, searchable variables, and PyCharm to manage module dependencies.  • Django's Object Relational Mapping framework was used to query data from models.  • Site was hosted on the Amazon Web Services EC2 Cloud Computing Server. Python Developer Tippett Studio - Berkeley, CA January 2015 to July 2016 • Converted outdated libraries to Python modules and managed department codebase.  • Scripted a modular creature system for efficient asset creation within Autodesk Maya that stored complex  behavior and attributes as JSON strings on the asset for quick building and processing.  • Analyzed individual asset performance and found performance bottlenecks.  • Worked with department supervisors to create show specific solutions on a tight deadline Education BFA in Interactive Technology and Special Effects California College of the Arts - Oakland, CA September 2011 to May 2015 Systems Programming De Anza College - Cupertino, CA September 2012 to May 2013 Skills Python (4 years), Programming (4 years), Javascript (1 year), HTML (1 year), HTML 5 (1 year), CSS (1 year), CSS3 (1 year), Git (4 years), Subversion (4 years), XML (2 years), JSON (2 years), Java (1 year), C++ (1 year), C (1 year), Django (1 year), Ajax (Less than 1 year), Linux (4 years), Mac OS X (5 years), Bootstrap (1 year) Links https://github.com/marissacomstock Additional Information I am a Web Developer with years of experience developing Python tools in high-pressure, fast-paced environments. My past experience has been in Visual Effects and Interactive Technologies and I have recently made the switch to Web Development.     In film there are many unique departments that all use varying softwares and technologies to create the highly realistic creatures and effects you see on the screen. I started in an art department, building CG creatures for animators and worked my way to research and development, creating tools for many of the departments at my company. I thoroughly enjoy working with creative people and work to understand their needs to create tools that are efficient and intuitive.     I’m currently looking for full-time Python/Django Web Development opportunities in the San Francisco Bay Area. I am familiar with front-end markup and programming languages including HTML, CSS, and Javascript. I am also very familiar with back-end server-side technologies. I look forward to finding new opportunities in the Bay Area!