Quality Specialist Quality Specialist Quality Specialist - Mount Sinai Hospital Frankfort, IL Work Experience Quality Specialist Mount Sinai Hospital - Chicago, IL September 2017 to Present Designed, developed, and implemented Quality Expectation Guidelines for Doctors and healthcare professionals on expectations for proper patient care, which resulted in saving the Hospital hundreds of thousands of dollars.  ? Use Midas+ relational database to print reports and abstract data on patients in Microsoft Excel  ? Use Meditech for abstracting data and reports to ensure that all patients receive standard procedures performed by Doctors and healthcare professionals correctly. LMS Content Analyst/Front-End Developer Collegis Education - Oak Brook, IL April 2017 to June 2017 Content management of LMS system for Rasmussen University courses.  ? Used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript with Dreamweaver to ensure Blackboard/Quality Assurance site is functional.  ? Building online courses using Course Management System Blackboard.  ? Produced graphics and animations using Photoshop and Adobe Premier for online courses.  ? Worked with Instructional Designers to build effective online content.  ? Developed innovative solutions to course production challenges. Jr. PHP Web Developer International Code Council - Country Club Hills, IL October 2016 to February 2017 Use PHP, HTML/CSS/Javascript to write clean, well-designed code to update the company website.  ? Use Symfony3 framework with PHP Storm to write code.  ? Use WordPress to create and management website and plug-ins to improve functionality and UI of website.  ? QA responsibilities to test and render code to ensure proper functionality within the website.  ? Created PHP, Twig, Bootstrap, CSS, JS, XML, YML, HTML, and JSON files and code to update website.  ? Used Git version control to send work to ICC Premium Access Github repository for approval for tasks completed.  ? Used XAMPP to set up local environment to test code. Python Consultant Argonne National Laboratory - Lemont, IL April 2016 to August 2016 * Work conducted at Argonne National Laboratory available on personal GitHub: https://github.com/matouk1114/learning    ? Worked directly under Atmospheric Scientist Dr. Scott Collis as a Python Specialist.  ? Used Python and Py-ART to download scientific data and plot for Laboratory use.  ? Worked independently to master Python programming and utilize the language to retrieve and analyze atmospheric data.  ? Plotted all retrieved data into Python UNIX Shell.  ? Performed data clean-up, analysis and management of radar data, plotting the data into a radar grid using Jupyter Notebook.  ? Plotted and read tabular data into Python and created graphs and plots with radar data.  ? Read NEXRAD and LES data using matplotlib and X-Array modules in Python.    Total Wellness Medical and Foot Care Services - Chicago Ridge, IL June 2013 - July 2015  President and Founder    ? Managed staff and delegated daily duties to doctors and medical staff, including: patient scheduling, ordering medical supplies, and ensuring patient satisfaction.  ? Utilized Microsoft Access and Practice Fusion for retrieving and analyzing patient information, including: insurance, medical, and personal information for billing purposes.  ? Utilized Microsoft Excel for organizing patient scheduling, new patient forms, patient insurance information, date of birth, address, and other patient information.  ? Created company website using www.GoDaddy.com and maintained website for company. Education Certification in Project Management Practitioners Northwestern University - Evanston, IL October 2013 to March 2014 Master of Business Administration in Health Sciences Keller Graduate School of Management - Tinley Park, IL October 2011 to May 2013 Bachelor of Arts in Political Science University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Urbana, IL August 2008 to June 2010 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    ? Python  ? ReactJS  ? Node.js  ? Py-ART  ? Git Version Control  ? C# and C++  ? R Language  ? HTML/CSS/JavaScript  ? JQuery  ? MySQL  ? Java  ? JIRA/Microsoft Project  ? Sublime Text3  ? Visual Basic.NET  ? PHP Storm IDE w/Symfony3 Framework  ? Dreamweaver  ? Balsamiq Mockups 3  ? WordPress  ? Twig  ? Bootstrap  ? XML  ? XAMPP  ? Jupyter Notebook  ? Android Studio  ? Virtual Box Machine  ? MS Excel  ? MS Word  ? MS PowerPoint  ? MS Access  ? MS Outlook  ? MS Project  ? Practice Fusion/AthenaNet EMR Software  ? Sony Vegas Film Editor  ? Adobe Photoshop/Illustrator  ? FilmoraVideo Editor