Customer Success Engineer Customer Success Engineer Customer Success Engineer - BigTinCan Indianapolis, IN Looking for Fulfilling software development work in Indianapolis. Work Experience Customer Success Engineer BigTinCan - Indianapolis, IN May 2019 to Present Worked as a Software Developer on the Customer Success team. Built internal automation and api integrations. Python/Automation/Software Developer Fatstax - Indianapolis, IN June 2016 to Present Worked as an data/scripting specialist. Used scripting tools like the python programming language and tools like selenium. Maintained and updated medium to large sized datasets. Regularly scraped entire websites, and created custom scripts quickly to process customer requests and to optimize internal workflows.  Built and maintain/enhanced open source libraries for common data formats such as CSV to allow extremely quick script building on tight deadlines. Automated as many projects as possible maximize efficiency within the team. Worked alongside other Dev Teams and API Integration teams.  Additionally, Made microsites/micro apps using public APIs to help facilitate internal and customer needs. Software Developer Fatstax December 2016 to January 2017 Intern software developer on the C# .NET team. Worked on multiple small and large scale projects. Developed apps with Xamarin, built Web Applications and Web APIs with the entity framework in MVC .NET.zz  Later worked as a short and long term contractor for various companies using technologies such as Python, Visual Basic, SQL, and C#. Technical Assistant/Internal Dev Ops Eleven Fifty Academy - Fishers, IN May 2016 to July 2016 Helped managed the Academies Internal Dev requirements, additionally helped students with course work. Education Cardinal Ritter Highschool 2011 to 2015 Skills Javascript, Python (5 years), .NET (2 years), RUST (Less than 1 year), Git (5 years), Javascript (2 years), HTML/CSS (4 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Python (5 Years)  Python - Unit/Coverage Test (4 Years)  Python (Flask Framework) (2 Years)  Git, GitHub, BitBucket (5 Years)  C#, Visual Basic, SQL (1 Year)  HTML/CSS/Javascript (3 Years)  Mid-High Level Languages (Such as Python, Ruby, etc)  Object Oriented Projects (4 Years)  Linux Server Deployment and Maintenance (2 Years)  AWS, Azure Management and deployment (2 Years)    LINKS    Github https://github.com/DolphDev  Linkedin - https://www.linkedin.com/in/joshua-walters-b6303a120