Business Analyst-Web Developer/IT helpdesk/Networking Business Analyst-Web <span class="hl">Developer</span>/IT helpdesk/Networking Business Analyst-Web Developer/IT helpdesk/Networking - South Carolina Commission on Higher Education Columbia, SC Work Experience Business Analyst-Web Developer/IT helpdesk/Networking South Carolina Commission on Higher Education October 2017 to Present • Spearheaded an group of five individuals on the renovation of a website.  • Re-designed and developed website to make it more innovative and accessible to incoming college students or current students to give them more information about how they can be more prepared for this new experience.  • Assigned to create portal for Military and Air Force personnel to apply for scholarships.  • Lead personnel for IT helpdesk, accepted calls and emails where I help all employees with their computer or hardware complications liaison for keeping network infrastructure up to date and secure, reformatting computers.  • Troubleshooting network issues while affectively fixing and collaborating with staff to make sure all parties knew of necessary steps to fix problems.  • Understanding of networking knowledge, DTP and VTP protocols as well as LAN and WAN technologies.  • Installed routers, switches and wireless controllers. Executive Secretary Iota Phi Theta Fraternity Incorporated 2017 to Present Pending Microsoft Technology Associate, CompTIA Network+, CCNET, CCNA Certifications Database Administrator MOX Nuclear Facility May 2017 to August 2017 • Served on Application Development Team/Procurement Group, assigned to build a database for procurement buyers to keep log of buyer's transactions.  • Responsible for keeping record of each buyer's tasks, as well as team overall goals of procurement buying.  • Handled SQL Development, VBA Programming, and Microsoft Access. Python Developer University of South Carolina June 2016 to August 2016 • Utilized Regression models using Python Language to assist in predicting how many students would enroll in classes for the fall semester.  • Prediction models assisted in accurately depicting class enrollments to ensure room sizes where assigned accordingly.    ACCOMPLISHMENTS/RECOGNITIONS  ? Life Scholarship Recipient, 2014-2017 Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Business Management University of South Carolina - Columbia, SC December 2017 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Android (Less than 1 year), Android SDK (Less than 1 year), COBOL (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Languages: Visual Basic, Java, COBOL, HTML, SQL, Android SDK, Python    • Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX/Linux, Mac OS, Android  • Integrated Development Environments/Software: Eclipse, Visual Studio, SharePoint, Microsoft Access, WordPress, VM Ware