UT Data Analyst UT Data Analyst UT Data Analyst Logan, UT Work Experience UT Data Analyst Reformation of a French Text November 2018 to December 2018 Examined the Raw French corpus, cleansed the data, broke each sentence into sequences of bigrams and trigrams.  This is achieved with the use of NLTK tokenizer module, trigram and bigram packages. Using FreqDist package of nltk, I also created a DataFrame of the list of words along with their frequency.  • Connected Jupyter Notebook with Mongo Database through pymongo and mongoclient and stored the ordered sentences, bigrams, trigrams as respective collections in the Mongo Database. Used FlaskAPI to expose the list of words using an app-route. Logan UT Data Analyst Huntsman School Business Intelligence Group - Logan, UT August 2018 to December 2018 Evaluated profiles of 500+ individuals using supervised and unsupervised natural language processing tactics from different sites utilizing web-scarping technology to determine the best way to retain deserving associates for Lenovo, and analyzing competitive scenarios.  • Analyzed data sets using sklearn packages (Imputer, LabelEncoder, OneHotEncoder) from selected business profiles and extracted the finest details and reasons for job success with statistics and predictive analysis using Python and HTML.  Designed a Counter that Counts the Occupancy of a Conference Value | Sonarpur, WB Dec 2013-April 2014 • Implanted two IR transmitters and receivers (TSOP 1738) on both sides of entrance door and displayed the cumulative number of people present in the university's auditorium using UP/DOWN counter logic. Salesforce Developer/ Python Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions, NASDAQ September 2014 to July 2018 • Worked with the cloud-based software Salesforce.com that helps multi-level organizations such as GE and Symantec to generate prices and quotes for complex and configurable products.  • Created new marketing data frames for an online-delivery solution for international retail prospects with numpy, pandas, and web-scraping functionalities, along with itertools module. Used Postman API using  GET, POST requests to get and send the information in JSON format to analyze the data and build a csv file.  ? Article link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/supratik-chanda-a10082a8/detail/recent-activity/posts/ ? 2nd Article link (My Data Science Survey): https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/really-data-science-increasingif- iswhich-language-itthats-chanda/ • Implemented NLP (Natural Language Processing) with NLTK module, NLP bag of Words model, NLTK  Packages like Reuters, Porter Stemmer, FreqDist, pos_tag, CountVectorizer module of Sklearn and classification models for SPAM detection.  • Implemented a live agent-based customized page through APEX language where client and agent can share their queries and get easy solutions. Single-handedly created the stylesheets and coordinated with onsite counterparts to enhance the User Interface for a new version of ORACLE.  • Successfully completed a MARKETING MANAGEMENT internship with IIM LUCKNOW under the guidance of Prof. Sameer Mathur. Applied basic concepts to solve business cases for an Android App.  • Completed a remote internship in DATA SCIENCE AND ANALYTICS with IIM LUCKNOW and learned basic concepts of R, Statistics, and Econometrics. Thereafter, concluded a Capstone project using Python programming. July 2017-Sept 2017 • Worked with Linear, Non-Linear and Random Forest Regression Models of Machine Learning in Python using real-time data and sent the data frame to other data clients for domestic and international customers through online cloud products.  • Implemented various Classification models to recognize noise and predict live project from Kaggle Datasets.  • Completed an internship while in University with BHARAT SANCHAR NIGAM LIMITED, a public-sector unit and acquired an overview of telecommunication technologies.  EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING PROJECTS Education Master of Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems Utah State University - Logan, UT August 2018 to December 2019 SQL Server Management Studio West Bengal University of Technology 2017 Technology Future Institute of Engineering and Management - Sonarpur, West Bengal July 2010 to June 2014 Skills Data Analysis (Less than 1 year), Natural (3 years), Natural Language Processing (4 years), NLP (3 years), Python (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/supratik-chanda-a10082a8 https://github.com/SupChanda https://www.kaggle.com/supchanda08kol50/kernels Additional Information SKILLS  • Languages and Databases: Python, SQL, Salesforce, MS SQL SERVER 2017, MS Excel  • Libraries/Tools: numpy, pandas, scikit-learn, matplotlib, seaborn, MongoDB, SMTP and IMAP, Context-  Free-Grammar (NLP), FlaskAPI  • Statistical Methods: Predictive Analysis, Natural Language Processing, RandomForestClassifier, SVM  Categorical data Analysis