Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Hartford, CT Python, .NET, SQL, PL/SQL, MongoDB, JavaScript, Java, Developer with 5 years of experience in application development, Data management, System Integration & maintenance. Hands-on experience in requirement gathering, project design, development and maintenance with Agile & Waterfall Software Development methodologies. Quick in learning & adopting to new technologies, framework & programming languages. Work Experience Python Developer High January 2018 to September 2018 Objective was to maintain On-Demand & Pre-set Alerts for High profile clients based on latest Trading value for High Risk assets.  • Integrated to National Stock Exchange REST API using Python.  • Developed JSON Parsing metadata driven framework using Python.  • Loaded MongoDB with Document structured Data packets for Analytics.  • Built Data pipeline to integrate several Enterprise Applications to share & consume data.  • Automated Error monitoring by using Log file parser Code framework.  • Utilized Python and its data science libraries - pandas, numpy and scipy, matplotlib, seaborn  • Used Python's plotly for plotting (and potentially some exposure to scikit-learn or statsmodels for statistical modelling - but it is unlikely for a software engineer to have a lot of experience with those)  • Created Robust systemic solution based on the current excel prototype. Recreated within the Python system and achieved full automation.  • Helped Data Scientist & Analyst with key information and technical assistance.    Technologies used: Python 2.6, REST API, MongoDB, JSON Tech Lead in Major Financial Institution Prime Objective October 2015 to May 2017 was to automate the Financial Reporting Application which was used to generate Financial Statements of various funds. This application helps the client in Consolidation and Combination of financial reports and then generating disclosures from client's trade capture system for Audit & compliance purposes with accuracy. This application handles the complex business flows and the reports can be generated in much less time and with more efficiency.    • Developed Complex Python based Business Rules Layer  • Used Python to integrate with Webservices, Reporting Engines & Datawarehouse  • Performed Scrum master role and managed Sprints efficiently  • Led Integration of Financial Admin System, Reporting Application seamlessly.  • Involved in High & low level Design details.  • Helped to create Scalable Data model working with Data Architects.  • Developed wireframes and presented to End users to get their Perspective.  • Created highly flexible User Interface with excellent User Experience.  • Designed SOA based Reporting Application with User Authentication, Authorization & On Demand Report Generation.  • Mentored Junior Developers onboard faster & work efficiently.  • Accessed Multiple Client side LAMP based Applications to acquire Data needed for Complex reporting engine.  • Performed Salesforce Data Extraction & Ingestion.  • Performed code review, provided best practices guidelines.  • Consolidated Status across various project modules, highlighted Risk & helped find resolutions.  • Work with QA / UAT team to Develop Test Strategy, Requirement Traceability matrix  • Technologies / Tools Used: PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Restful Web Services using Jersey, ER-Studio, Angular JS, MVC, Stored Procedures, Subversion, Oracle, Junit, RTC, Maven. SQL / ETL Developer Financial Trading Corporation April 2012 to July 2012 Objective of this Project is to Calculate the Ratings of Indexes based on Trading volume (Past & Realtime) information. Generate Adhoc / On Demand reports for Business users (Traders), so that they can Analyze, Research Patterns & Trends to make informed Decisions for End Customers.    • Worked as System Analyst / Business Analyst / Tech Lead to translate the Business Functional Requirements into Technical Specifications.  • Created Complex Data Mapping Document & Business Rules Documentations.  • Facilitated Integration of Cognos reporting application into ODS.  • Created Flexible framework to Load Daily trading (overnight) data into Oracle.  • Create complex Stored procedure / Business logic to transform massive Datasets.  • Work with Various Vendor Partners (Solution Implementation, Product Owners) and get the best possible results for Project.  • Worked with Admin teams to establish scalable, robust SCM patterns for error free Deployment & System Monitoring.  • Technologies Used: Informatica, Oracle, Unix Scripting, Syncsort DMX Education Master of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Anna University Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Anna University Skills .net, Git, Hive, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Python, Ruby, Scripting, Subversion, Vba, Xml, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Stored procedures, Informatica, Mongodb, Django, Java, Flask Additional Information Skills  • Python, .NET, Java (version 7,8), SQL, PL/SQL, Ruby, Stored Procedures, Excel VBA  • ASP.NET 2.0, Javascript, NodeJS, JQuery, JSON, XML, Maven, Junit, RESTful Web Services, Spring, MVC, Salesforce, HTML, CSS  • Hive, MongoDB, My SQL, Oracle, SQL Server, Tableau, SSRS, SSIS, Informatica, Cognos, Kibana  • Toad for Oracle, Jenkins, Sonar, PuTTY, JIRA, Subversion, Git  • VersionOne, JIRA, Bugzilla, Rally, PostMan, SoapUI, Jenkins, Ansible  • Unix Scripting, Deployment Management, Prod / Non-PROD System monitoring & support