Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - Randstad Technologies • Around 2+ years of experience as a Software Engineer concentrated on Software Design, Software Analysis, Software Development and Testing of application in various platforms.  • Good experience using various python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries).  • Experienced in using MVC architecture using RESTful, Soap Web services and SoapUI and high-level Python Web frameworks like Django and Flask.  • Involved in manual testing, automation testing and integration testing using Jenkins.  • Strong background in management and leadership.  • Effective in decision making & having ability to meet very tight deadlines.  • Can understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Software Engineer Randstad Technologies - Fort Lauderdale, FL August 2018 to Present • Contributed in enhancement of existing products for new updates and requirements.  • Established the coding standards in all developed software design and code.  • Involved in developing new functionalities for an existing application for better enhancements.  Technologies: Embedded, C++, Linux, Git, Python and Testing. Python Developer/Linux Admin Hewlett Packard - Houston, TX February 2018 to June 2018 • Participated in Sprint meetings to keep track of project phases and build strategies to meet the business requirements and deadlines.  • Worked on building Linux / Unix HP- UX servers and clusters.  • Setup, configured, debugged network configurations for RedHat servers and workstations.  • Identified and analyzed the issues that hamper the performance of the system, and to work in close coordination with the product development team and recommend the solutions for the issues.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python to build responsive web page application.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Redesigned existing task management systems using Python.  Environment: Python scripting, Linux, Unix, Django, MySQL, HTML, JavaScript, JSON, XML, jQuery, Restful, CSS, Git. Software Engineer Intern Banks & Company - Dearborn, MI May 2017 to October 2017 • Participated in entire life cycle (Software Development Life Cycle) of the project right from the initial requirements gathering to the implementation.  • Used Agile methodology and effectively took part in Scrum gatherings to deliver quality deliverables within time.  • Participated in business process analysis and requirement gathering for new customization.  • Used AngularJS JavaScript framework to bind data to HTML using expressions.  • Developed and deployed website using Front End components (UI) using JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS3 for projects based on java platform. Graduate Assistant University of Michigan - Dearborn, MI November 2016 to May 2017 • Scheduling the semester wide plan for the proper functioning of the course and getting students engaged in the online course. Assisted instructor in generating the grading matrices for the assignments and examinations conducted during the course.  • Tested Linux, Mac OSX and Windows protocols with embedded devices over various network configuration.  • Learned concept of MTV architecture and designed websites using Django 1.8 and Python 3.6.  Stock Market Analysis - Python|JupyterNotebook  • Estimate the data from stock market from technology stocks such as Google, Apple, Amazon. Implemented in Python used Pandas to get the information and visualized different aspects of it using SEABORN, MATPLOTLIB. Analyzed the Risk of stock with previous performance history. Also, predicted the future stock prices through Monte Carlo Method. Web Developer Blue Star Infotech - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2014 to July 2015 • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, jQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  • Rewrote existing Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked on adding advanced security features such as cipher class, RSA for application and checked cross-browser compatibility issues with Firefox, Google Chrome, Internet Explorer.  • Designed the user interfaces using HTML5 and CSS.  • Used Apache Tomcat Application Server to deploy the application.  • Resolved all browser compatibility issues by writing unit test cases.  Environment: HTML5, Python, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, PHP, MySQL and Eclipse IDE, Xampp. Education Master's in Computer Science & Engineering University of Michigan - Dearborn, MI Bachelor's in Information Technology & Engineering in Information Technology & Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University - Belgaum, Karnataka Skills JAVASCRIPT (1 year), PYTHON (1 year), LINUX (1 year), MYSQL (1 year), HTML5 (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Programming Languages: C, Python, Java, SQL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (Angular JS), PHP, Node.js, Git, Linux, Unix.  • Relational Databases: MySQL, Oracle, DB2.  • Analysis Tools: Tableau, Microsoft Excel (Vlookup, Pivot tables & Charts, Macros).  • Software Tools: Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Office, NetBeans, Eclipse IDE, Pycharm.