Software Engineer Software Engineer Simply striving to be the best. Houston, TX Seeking an opportunity with an organization to further develop my career as a Software Engineer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Infor - New York, NY February 2016 to Present Infor is a privately held U.S. software company that specializes in enterprise software.  * Using Infor’s proprietary development software to rapidly create customer specific software.  * Weekly scrum meetings covering new solutions built with HTML5/Angular for cloud platforms.  * Rapidly implementing Proof of Concepts involving both UI and application logic for numerous clients. Technical Peer Advisor CUNY Codes Mentorship Program - New York, NY January 2016 to Present The CUNY Codes Mentorship Program selects students to partake as peer mentors for it’s development program.  * Advising new participants with constructive advice based on my own success within the program.  * Identifying, mitigating and resolving disputes which arise as new groups begin developing.  * Advocating participation in local tech events to ensure participants improve their networking skills. Python Developer Audio Ocelot - New York, NY January 2016 to Present Audio Ocelot is a Web and Android application which uses an Artificial Neural Network to classify music.  * Developing an Artificial Neural Networking in Python & C++ to classify music by auditory features.  * Implementing a clustering algorithm to suggest music based solely on unique audio features.  * Leveraging Amazon Web Services in combination with Ubuntu, Python, Flask and MongoDB. IT Intern The Helm Society - New York, NY September 2014 to February 2016 The Helm Society is a channel for CEOs to get access to the people and perspective they need.  * Worked directly with the CEO to evaluate, suggest and purchase technologies used by the company.  * Removed any impediments faced by the CEO or employees to improve company productivity.   * Implemented utilities including automated scheduling, password repository and webinar solutions. iOS Developer Spot Parking Application - New York, NY October 2015 to December 2015 Spot is a real time parking application for IOS which helps New Yorkers find reliable street parking.  * Developed a community-driven real-time street parking application using Swift, Xcode and Parse.   * Implemented development practices such as scrum, agile, Tuckman model and Root Cause Analysis.  * Demonstrated administrative skills by functioning as a SCRUM master, mitigating team impediments. Education BACHELOR OF ARTS in COMPUTER SCIENCE, MINOR in MATHEMATICS Hunter College - New York, NY 2012 to 2016 Skills Agile Development (1 year), Python (2 years), Amazon Web Services (1 year), Git (2 years), Visual Basic (1 year), Javascript (1 year), Angular (Less than 1 year), Neo4J (Less than 1 year), Spark (Less than 1 year), mongoDB (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.simplymarcello.me http://github.com/simplymarcello https://www.linkedin.com/in/simplymarcello https://twitter.com/simplymarcello