Data Engineer Intern Data Engineer Intern Software Engineering Intern - Huawei Technologies Durham, NC Work Experience Data Engineer Intern Duke OIT - Durham, NC August 2017 to Present ?  Devised an auto application installation shell script using Python for reimaging Windows/Mac machines to lab standard.  ?  Created MySQL database for Duke’s machine and visualized the data via bootstrap and ASP.NET to frontend.   ?  Used Scala with Spark to perform scalable NYU taxi dataset transformations through AWS EC2 clusters based on the concept of differential privacy. Full Stack Developer Intern Huawei Technologies - Shenzhen, CN May 2018 to August 2018 ? Implemented a series of production analysis algorithm to optimize the process of stress testing of chips.  ? Designed and implemented a stress testing management web app using C# with ASP.NET, Bootstrap and Oracle SQL, allowing administrators to import/revise data, manage privilege and monitor stress testing process of chips.  ? Visualized the average duration of stress testing process of different chips, percentage of chips against different technical parameters based on the imported data using C# with ASP.NET, Bootstrap and Echarts. Python Developer Intern CITIC Bank - Chengdu, CN June 2016 to August 2016 ? Explored the demand from clients, built POC of bank’s technical offerings, and hosted workshop for clients to understand and use the technology.  ? Performed data visualization and analysis for backend usage via Python with NetworkX and Plotly, conducting user analysis and A/B testing to marketing department.  ? Parsed large data files in XML format and imported the data into PostgreSQL database using xml.sax. Teaching Assistant Boston University - Boston, MA January 2016 to May 2016 ? Led TA sessions for an algorithm class and grade written and Java coding assignments.  ? Helped students consider tradeoffs of different solutions to a given problem and be more independent when debugging. Education M.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science Duke University - Durham, NC May 2019 B.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science Boston University - Boston, MA August 2013 to May 2017 Skills mySQL (2 years), MongoDB (1 year), JAVA (2 years), Python (3 years), ASP.NET (1 year), C# (1 year), AWS (1 year), Spark (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  • Programming Language: Java, Python, Golang, Akka/Scala, C#, SQL  • Database Management: Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  • Distributed Computation: Spark, AWS   • System: Linux, MacOS, Windows  • Web Application: HTML, ASP.NET, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Echarts