Java Backend Developer Java Backend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Backend Developer - ADP Pvt Ltd To excel in the professional career, reach the pinnacle and climb the corporate ladder with hard work and determination. Work Experience Java Backend Developer ADP Pvt Ltd November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working with the Design & Development Team for Transportation Management Mobile product at JDA.  • Actively involved in the product architecture designing.  • Using Spring Boot to make restful web services and Xamarin for mobile development. Oracle 12g DB and MongoDB are being used in the project.  • Working directly with the product lead to implement complex backend functionality for mobile server.  • Enabled CI/CD for the project via Jenkins and using Junit framework for Test driven Development. Full Stack and DevOps Developer ADP Pvt Ltd January 2018 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the Development Team for Transportation Management Modeler product at JDA.  • Worked as a Full Stack developer. Used Spring Boot to make restful web services and Ext-JS 6.6 for frontend development. MongoDB was used as database.  • I was actively involved in application's architectural designing as it's a new product.  • I also created build pipelines via Jenkins tool to enable CI/CD. Java Developer and Testing ADP Pvt Ltd August 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the Development Team for customer on boarding product at ADP.  • Worked as a java developer to make restful web services using Spring Boot.  • Performed load testing with Gatling framework.  • I was also involved in load testing through Gatling tool and CI/CD initiative for the product. Java Developer and Module Lead Hitachi Consulting Pvt Ltd December 2016 to June 2017 Duration & Company: December 2016 till June 2017, Hitachi Consulting Pvt Ltd.  Responsibilities:  • Worked with the Development Team for Smart City project - HVS.  • Worked as a java developer to make restful web services using Spring Rest Api.  • I was involved in the architectural designing phase of the product.  • Worked on NoSql- MongoDb, MySQL and Rabbit MQ.  • I looked into the linux server administration as well.  • Its a product developed for Andhra Pradesh Government.    4- Customer OnBoarding Application: Java Developer and Python Script Developer Hitachi Consulting Pvt Ltd August 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked as a java developer to make restful web services using Jersey JAX-RS.  • Worked on Python Scripts to check the server CPU utilization status and trigger subsequent actions required in case a critical threshold value is attained. Java Developer RIG IN A BOX - HITACHI AMERICA LIMITED November 2015 to August 2016 Hitachi Consulting Pvt Ltd.  Responsibilities:  • I worked as a Java Developer and was mainly responsible for developing Restful web services on Spring MVC framework.  • I worked closely with Linux server of the project wherein my primary goal was to install various software on the machine and handle any critical situation that may arise during development process, for example crashing or slowing down of Tomcat/SQL server.  • Got an opportunity to work closely with Jenkins tool wherein I learnt to create Job Schedule for various project modules.  • Worked on MongoDb as well and was given the responsibility of MongoDb server administration and development of related web services.  • Implemented Swagger 2.0 API in the project that helps in the documentation of web services.    2- SERVICE DESK AUTOMATION TOOL: Additional Information PRIMARY SKILLS:    • Technologies: C, C++, JDBC, Java SE 8, Java EE 6, Restful web services, File I/O, Spring- MVC, Spring Boot, Maven, Ant, JPA - Hibernate ORM, AWS/Azure basic level, Socket programming, Servlet, Python-3.4, SQL, Ext-JS 6.6, MongoDB, Oracle db 12g.  • Tools: Eclipse, Spring Tool Suit IDE, RoboMongo, MySQL Workbench, Jenkins, Wildfly, Tomcat, Postman, Sonar, Putty, GIT, RabbitMQ.  • Operating system: Windows and Linux.  • Secondary Skills: Android application development, C#, Kafka, Html5, Node JS, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular JS.