Python/Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python/Django Developer San Gabriel, CA Around 2 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client- server architecture based enterprise application software in Python and Java on various domains.    CORE QUALIFICATIONS • Experienced in developing MVT/MVC architecture based applications using Django framework.  • Strong experience in developing software in Python using libraries like Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Scipy, Pandas to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  • Experienced in web development with Java, Servlets, JSP and JDBC.  • Extensive knowledge of writing C programs and have a good understanding of Data Structures and Algorithms.  • Familiar with Django's ORM library.  • Experienced in working with various Development tools like Sublime Text, Eclipse, Netbeans and Atom.  • Strong Expertise in MySQL, Postgres, SQLite and NO-SQL databases like Mongo DB.  • Worked with HTML5/CSS and JavaScript based UI development.  • Experience working with version control tools such as Git.  • Experienced in Agile and Scrum Methodologies • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Familiar with Docker for containerization.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python/Django Developer Bhaskaracharya Institute for Space Applications and Geo-Informatics August 2014 to May 2016 • Worked on object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and Django.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Performed CRUD operations on MySQL database using Django's ORM.  • Created RESTful APIs to send data to the front end team using Python in Django.  • Worked in Agile and Scrum methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Tracking defects and resolving bugs using JIRA.  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional  Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective. Education Master's in Computer Science California State University Fullerton - Fullerton, CA August 2016 to August 2018 Bachelor's in Information Technology Ganpat University - Mehsana, GUJARAT, IN August 2012 to June 2016 Skills Python (5 years), Django (5 years), PostgresSQL (4 years), MySQL (5 years), SQLite (5 years), NumPy (2 years), SciPy (2 years), Pandas (2 years), Java (4 years), Servlets (4 years), Jsp (4 years), JDBC (4 years), JIRA (2 years), Docker (Less than 1 year), RabbitMQ (Less than 1 year), HTML (8 years), CSS (8 years), Javascript (2 years), HTML 5 (4 years), Agile (2 years), Scrum (2 years), API (5 years), Restful API (2 years), ORM (5 years), MongoDB (2 years), C (2 years), Git (2 years), Linux (4 years), Unix (1 year), Django REST Framework (1 year)