Software Engineer (Contract) Software Engineer (Contract) Software Engineer (Contract) El Monte, CA Enthusiastic, passionate, professional, and a hardworking software developer with more than 4 years of experience  designing, implementing, and testing software using agile methodology. Proven to be a responsible and dedicated person  with excellent communication and organizational skills, and the ability to learn quickly. Experienced in working as a team as  well as individually in a fast-paced environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer (Contract) Global Auto Point July 2017 to December 2018 • Built a web application for the automobile servicing company which increased company's efficiency by 50%.  • Set up domain controller, web server, and SQL server.  • Created a portal for entering data for purchase and sales bills using ASP.NET which gets stored in SQL database.  • Created detailed and summary reports of all the sales, purchases, and the inventory status using SQL stored procedures.  • Provided training for users to properly use the software.  • Trained a new software engineer to maintain the code and manage the system.  • Followed agile methodology to iterate collecting requirements and the development process. Software Developer ClearOne Advantage - Baltimore, MD September 2017 to June 2018 • Designing, implementing, testing, deploying, debugging, and maintaining various software using agile methodology in a fast-paced environment.  • Writing stored procedures, functions, and designing tables in SQL to manage company's data.  • Worked on approximately 10 different projects and over 50 enhancements. Python Developer Global Auto Point - Los Angeles, CA July 2017 to July 2017 Developed a Sudoku solver using Python which solves Sudoku in a regular way as well as solves it as a diagonal  Sudoku.  • Used PyGame to visualize the assignments in the Sudoku puzzle. Co-Founder, Chief Technology Officer Dine-N-Dash - San Diego, CA January 2017 to March 2017 01-04-17 - 03-20-17  • Developed a wireframe for the company's web app and mobile app.  • Followed the Lean Startup Methodology to prototype a startup.  • Business Plan and Presentation: https://github.com/abhigya95/DineNDash. Lead Android Developer Android Studio and Java - San Diego, CA August 2016 to December 2016 Followed agile methodology to develop automatic parking reservation app using Java and Android Studio and got  acknowledged as one of the best apps in the class.  • Created various pages of the application to create a smooth experience for the users using Android Studio and Java.  • Set up Firebase as the backend server and developed the authentication process, user database, and parking structure  database from scratch.  • Assessed systemic problems and provided solutions.  • Maintained communication with the client team to receive constant feedback and further the app development. Lead Java Developer San Diego, CA November 2015 to December 2015 • Worked on the core code of the program which recursively solves a given Sudoku puzzle.  • Integrated the core code using Model-View-Controller architecture using Java and CSS. Education Software Engineering and Design Patterns University of California - Los Angeles, CA June 2017 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), Coding (Less than 1 year), SQL (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS, AND STRENGTHS  Coding Skills: C#, .NET, SQL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, C++, Bot Framework, Python, Java, C, MATLAB, Octave  Technologies/Environment: Visual Studio, GitHub, TFS, SVN, Windows, Android Studio, Eclipse, Linux