Data Scientist Data Scientist Data Scientist - Bellhops Inc Chattanooga, TN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Scientist Bellhops Inc - Chattanooga, TN June 2015 to October 2017 ? Active leader in design, implementation and delivery of a proprietary dynamic pricing engine, unique to the moving industry.  ? Overseeing/managing (product owner) all implementations of advanced statistical, machine learning and predictive modeling techniques pushed regularly to production.  ? Regularly conducted A/B tests and experiments to examine feasibility and gauge performance of successful product features.  ? Made strategic recommendations on data collection, integration and retention requirements incorporating business requirements and knowledge of best practices (ETL, Data Warehousing). CSE 2111 Lab Instructor The Ohio State University January 2015 to May 2015 Instructed Laboratory course for Excel Spreadsheets, Data Modeling and Database management. Front-End Developer Virtual Lab School April 2014 to December 2014 * Collaboration between the Ohio State University and the Department of Defense creating a platform for early childhood development professionals who work with military and civilian families.  * Responsible for content creation, user interface and front-end development. Dragon Research Intern - Data Processing Tool Developer Virtual Lab School May 2014 to August 2014 * Acoustic Modeling Research Tools team under Nuance Mobility Division.  * Deployment of tools for data quality measurement.  * Working with Automatic Speech Recognition systems to optimize quality of training data through statistical investigation.  * Achievement - introduced novel scoring methodology with higher granularity to replace existing system. Python Developer Grace Foundation - IN January 2013 to May 2013 * Trend monitoring database via keyword searches.  * Mining data from various news sites for aggregation and computational story building.  * Deliverable was to generate summarized news stories to be reported on a web portal that catered to a weekly audience of more than 10,000 users. Education MS in Computer Science & Engineering The Ohio State University - Columbus, OH 2013 to 2015 Links http://www.github.com/valiantone Additional Information SKILLS  MASTERY  Python, Natural Language Processing, Machine Learning, Numpy, Sci-Kit Learn, Shell-Scripting, Unix, Spreadsheet And Data Modeling, Graphic Design  PROFICIENCY  C/C++, Matlab, NLTK, Restful API, SOAP, CSS, JSON, SQLLite, SQL, Scipy, Django, Matplotlib, Selenium, Gensim, wxPython, Rapid-Prototyping, InVision  COMPETENCY  Java, Javascript, Lucene, NoSQL, HTML    SPECIALIZATIONS  * Natural Language Processing and Information Extraction for Unstructured Data  * Automatic Summarization  * Sentiment Analysis and Opinion Mining  * Web Mining and Scraping  * Predictive Data Analytics  * Applied Machine Learning  * Graphical and User Interaction Design  * Data Preparation and Visualization