Back-end Python developer Back-end <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Full stack developer Seattle, WA Work Experience Back-end Python developer Adxeed - Bellevue, WA December 2016 to Present Django RESTful API back-end development involving database design Web development TA CodingDojo Inc - Bellevue, WA May 2016 to Present • 60+ hour per week training on 2 stacks + 1 web fundamentals and blackbelted (highest belt) each stack  Projects: • Guitarist Official Website: constructed a CMS platform using full stack Angular + Express  + MongoDB + Node that gives user the ability to manage the content with the editable functionalities  • Polls: full stack MEAN web app that allows creating users, having users to poll, vote, view  all polls. All functionalities built within 4 hours.  • Message Board: full stack Django web app. Functionalities include login and registration  validations, communicate with other users through messages and comments that posted dynamically. Data Analyst Inrix - Kirkland, WA October 2015 to October 2016 • Analyze big data using Python and libraries such as Pandas to clean, extract, partition, analyze data as  needed to predict potential risks, replicate issues, and seek patterns to ensure data quality and efficiency.  • Created and stored SQL and workflow procedures that helped team saving at a minimum of 3 minutes  per trigger and can potentially save hours of training for new hires. Civil Engineer Concord Engineering - Seattle, WA March 2015 to October 2015 • Calibrated data from microwave sensors at intersections throughout state of Utah for UDOT.  • Implemented procedures of experimentation in water reuse and natural gas piping installations for  carbon capture studies.  • Carried out hydroponics experiment with measurements and evaluated impacts of salinity on nutrient  uptake of various agaves for environmental impacts studies with statistical methods on data collected. Summer Analyst Intern Goldman Sachs - Salt Lake City, UT May 2013 to August 2013 • Developed and Optimized programs in Visual Basic for data management reporting platforms including  risk quotient, KPI, FI-credits that potentially save 15 min per team per week for 3 teams.  • Interfaced with institutional global business partners to process and settle FI trade breaks and risk. Education B.S. in Civil and Environmental Engineering Brigham Young University (BYU), Fulton College of Engineering and Technology - Provo, UT Skills C++, Git, Python, Javascript, Web Development, Django, SQL, full stack MEAN, JQuery, Front End Web Development Links https://github.com/sgiuij Additional Information Volunteering Activities    •Seattle Sustainability Promotion Events: Promoted solar-energy based lifestyle and introduced sustainable household products, recorded residents’ passion about sustainability through photographs  •Globus Relief Nonprofit: Collaborated with teams managing medical supply packaging and delivery