Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer San Francisco Bay Area, CA Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Nisum Technologies - San Francisco, CA June 2017 to Present Collaborated with team members, shareholders, various teams, vendors and remote engineers in an  Agile/SCRUM environment to establish requirements, coordinate releases, and avoid breaking things.  Contributed documentation to remote teams detailing APIs.  Integrated APIs with Vuex store for PWA experiment, worked on state management.  Worked on "buy online, purchase in store" (BOPIS) functionality for PWA.  Developed Nuxt middleware for server rendered error pages.  Developed Vuex plugin for reporting key metrics and user behavior in PWA experiment, enabling shareholders to identify 3% increase in revenue-per-visitor (RPV) in experiment vs. control and a $1.6 million increase in annual revenue in mobile users alone.  Worked with team of 3 engineers to integrate Tealium tag manager site-wide to improve performance and reduce  technological debt.  As part of cross-team initiative to reduce page load by 50%, refactored legacy Knockout code into server side  rendered React components, using React 16.3's context API to manage global state.  Mentored offshore team on Ramda.js and functional Javascript programming for already-existing PEM  application that made heavy use of Ramda.  Served as point-of-contact for React/Redux architecture for checkout SPA that processes over $2 billion in transactions annually.  Interviewing candidates and providing feedback Fullstack Software Developer Dev Ship, Inc - Berkeley, CA July 2016 to June 2017 Worked closely with clients to establish problem specifications and system designs.  Performed unit testing to verify software quality and function before it was released.  Designed, tested, and consumed REST APIs  Implemented token-based authentication using JWT  Developed server-side application leveraging Node.js, Express, & MongoDB  Used graph algorithms to visualize genealogical data  Developed data-heavy React/Redux application for administrative tasks  Developed UI components in JSX/CSS, leveraged frameworks like Bootstrap & Material-UI  Linux VPS deployment/administration, writing shell scripts to manage frontend builds and database backups Front End Consultant Dev Ship, Inc July 2016 to September 2016 Tested front-end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility.  Added AJAX and multimedia functionality  Debugged JavaScript on front-end  Developed test server in Node.js for rapid prototyping Python Consultant Sahara Moroccan Home Decor - Berkeley, CA February 2015 to March 2015 Implemented new features in PHP CMS  Developed order and inventory management software in Python, PostgreSQL, Flask, with Bootstrap + jQuery on frontend  Wrote unit tests Software Consultant Azru, LLC - Berkeley, CA February 2014 to August 2014 Developed hybrid phone application prototype for food-ordering service in jQuery Mobile & Cordova, also handled LAMP stack administration & deployment.