Teaching Assistant for C++ and Python Programming Languages Teaching Assistant for C++ and <span class="hl">Python</span> Programming Languages AEM Developer looking for full time opportunities Santa Clara, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Teaching Assistant for C++ and Python Programming Languages Pfizer, World Headquarters - New York, NY January 2016 to Present USA Intern Pfizer, World Headquarters May 2016 to August 2016 Project : External Research and Innovation group (erdi.pfizer.com)  Company: Pfizer Inc, New York, USA   AEM Developer (Summer Intern) May ’16– Aug ’16     Project Summary:   ? The project includes refactoring the existing site and reorganizing content to make it easier and quicker for customers to find the right answer to their question.   ? Providing a clear path for customers to get assisted help through the community, support agents, and from professional services.   ? Enabling a mobile ready experience for improved support on all types of browsers and devices.     Key Responsibilities   ? Involved in building and deploying enterprise level Web Content Management solutions on Adobe AEM 6.0  ? Developing application using core Java, J2EE, Sightly, Adobe AEM 6.x, RESTful web services and modern front end frameworks ( jQuery/ Extjs, Bootstrap etc.)  ? Hands on experience with Adobe Marketing Cloud (Adobe Analytics)  ? Working on the Java Content Repository (JCR) suite, Sling web framework, Apache Felix OSGi framework, digital asset management and workflow.  ? Developing applications, templates, and components for Adobe AEM (WCM, DAM, CRX)  ? Responsible and Ensured for the quality of delivery of the track by, practicing and monitoring the development processes by conducting code reviews, unit testing and technical walkthroughs of the track Software Developer IMS health - Bangalore, Karnataka July 2013 to July 2015 Project : cegedim.com  Company: IMS Health( Cegedim) Bangalore, India  AEM Developer (Software Developer) July ’13 – July ’15   Project Summary:   ? The project includes rebuild a responsive, rich and intuitive website through a superior digital experience using AEM content management system     ? Enabling a mobile ready experience for improved support on all types of browsers and devices.   ? Providing a clear path for business to get assisted help through the community, support agents, and from professional services.     Key Responsibilities   ? Followed Agile/Scrum methodology for design, development, testing and deployment phases of the projects.   ? Involved in AEM related design and framework development using templates, components widgets, AEM bundles, JCR/Sling API, configuring Cloud Services, publish and author set-up.   ? Interact with Business Stakeholder to understand their business challenges and put forth technical solutions.   ? Worked on wire frame analysis and wrote functional design documentation for various components.   ? Design and development of web pages using AEM, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JQuery.   ? Complete Ownership of modules in order to deliver module related user stories in time.  ? Resolving the JIRA tickets Education M.S in Computer Science in computer science University of Colorado at Boulder - Boulder, CO August 2015 to May 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Science in Information Science Visvesvaraya Technological University - Bangalore, Karnataka June 2009 to June 2013 Skills AJAX (Less than 1 year), jQuery (Less than 1 year), JSP (2 years), Servlets (2 years), SQL (3 years), Java (2 years), Jsp (2 years), Spring (2 years), adobe experience manager (2 years), osgi (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ranga91091 Additional Information SKILLS Framework/Technologies JavaEE, Spring, Hibernate, Angular 1 & 2, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSP, Servlets, NodeJS  Databases Oracle, MySql, MongoDB, Sqlite  Applications/IDE's Eclipse, Sharepoint, Filezilla, Wordpress, Intellj, WebStorm, Android Studio, Balsamiq  Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Microsoft SQL Server  Conceptual Skills Design Patterns, MVC Architecture, Agile Methodology, Test Automation, Use Case Modelling    WORK University of Colorado at Boulder, Colorado, USA