Python Web Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Vantage Point Consulting Python Developer onsite at Bloomberg Princeton, NJ Open to new positions including Web Application Developer, Quant Data Engineer, Financial Software Engineer, UI Designer.    Personal Github: https://github.com/lc199245     Python, SQL, Html/Css, Javascript, Django, Ajax/Jquery  C++, Java, SSH/Spring-Strut-Hibernate Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Web Developer Bloomberg L.P. - Princeton, NJ May 2016 to Present • Designed a generic module using python that can extract all table contents and free text areas from a pdf document. This module is extendable, reusable for other groups in Global Data. Also provided high efficiency front-end pdf highlighting solutions using javascript.    • Keynote Project, QA/QC (Quality Assurance/Quality Control) Tool with Web-UI. Designed a web tool using Django with Jquery/Bootstrap for analyst to check the data input results. Helping them correct their manual processes.    • Keynote project: PDF Extraction Tool. Used Python to build a tool that can help automatically extract useful fields’ values from Ginnie Mae monthly reports, auto-storing those values into the company’s database. Compared with the existing values, popping out a highlighted pdf page if values are different. Working on building a web UI platform using Django and Bootstrap with the core logics.    • Keynote project: Open Data Analysis Tool. Working with a group to build an open data extracting, normalizing, and mining tool based on a famous open-source framework, Deep Dive. Cooperating with a startup company Lattice for Proof-Of-Concept, ideas including pure text mining, machine learning and big data mining algorithms.    • Worked on developing data ontology for Bloomberg proprietary data architecture.    • Used Python to do web data extractions and JSON object encoding and decoding. Wrote SQL scripts to manage the database including complicated merge and update cases. Coded with Python to help other groups optimize many existing manual processes to increase the working efficiency of the GDFI department. Internship IT Division, Jiangsu Agriculture Committee - Nanjing, CN May 2013 to March 2014 Project Online Agricultural Data Report System Nanjing, China  Lead a team that design an automated web system to collect and analyze the important agricultural commodities data for government's decision-making.  • Designed the major structure of the system using SSH framework, created the database storing over 40 different reports from over 100 cities in Jiangsu Province.  • Set up the system in servers to gather reports periodically and automatically calculated the predefined statistics.  • Provided web data views for the project manager to see all the information and make decisions.  RESEARCH PROJECTS Education Master of Quantitative Finance in Data Mining Rutgers Business School - Newark, NJ September 2014 to June 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Software Engineering Nanjing University September 2010 to June 2014 Skills Python (3 years), C++ (3 years), Java (3 years), R (2 years), Matlab (2 years), Financial Analysis (2 years), Financial Modeling (2 years), Data Mining (1 year), Databases, Databases (3 years) Links https://github.com/lc199245 https://www.linkedin.com/in/chang-liu-068967b6 Certifications/Licenses CFA Level II Candidate