Python / Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> / Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Seeking software development position that utilizes my technical skills, education, work ethic, and passion for solving interesting problems and transforming complication into simplicity. Team player with excellent written and oral communication skills. After 9 years in the oil and gas industry, I've made the switch to computer science through dedicated self-study and bootcamp training focusing on Python / Django and MEAN stack. Highly motivated, ready to work, willing to learn. South Plainfield, NJ • Experience developing web-applications utilizing Python 3 / Django 2 MVT architecture   • Experience creating and consuming REST APIs using Django Rest Framework, Node.js / Express.   • Experience developing MEAN stack applications   • Experience designing and establishing web application environments on AWS using included services: EC2 s3, Lambda, Security Groups, etc. within Linux/Ubuntu servers for Python 3 / Django projects   • Experience with implementation of Django Object-Relational Mapping layers (ORM) as well as effective use of relational and non-relational databases (SQL, Mongo).   • MEAN stack experience using Angular 2+ (5,6,7). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python / Django Developer Venture with Impact - Waukesha, WI October 2017 to Present •Developed and wrote Python scripts using Atom IDE under Windows and Linux Environments.   • Responsible for creation of Django applications, with models, views, and routing.   • Developed Django forms applications to retrieve data from users and saved them into database for analysis purposes.   • Established routing methods (Get, Post, Put, Delete) for making requests Python   • Django API server using Postman for unit testing.   • Made use of Git source control to track progress and facilitate simultaneous development.   • Developed Restful API for all the functionalities implemented in the project using Class based views in Python/Django. Created MySQL databases, tables and views.   • Responsible for creating efficient and well-designed User Interaction screens with Django templates using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Bootstrap 3. Education SummitWorks Bootcamp in Full Stack Python Development SummitWorks February 2019 to April 2019 Computer Science in Computer Science HarvardX CS50 August 2018 to January 2019 Full stack development in Full Stack devemopment FreeCodeCamp July 2017 to June 2018 High school or equivalent Skills Git, Javascript, MySQL, jQuery, HTML 5