Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> B.S. Biological Sciences Marion, IL While living in Chicago, I volunteered at Rush University Medical Center for four hours per week during the period of January of 2016 until May of 2016. This was an extremely fulfilling experience as it gave me a look into the other side of medical care outside of the emergency department.    I have previously volunteered at the University of Illinois at Chicago in an ecology related lab. I initially did this as I was curious if I had an interest in ecology research and wanted to see what related lab work was like. Although I do have a great passion for the environment and conservation, I did not find this type of lab work was for me.     More recently I have volunteered in an Immunology lab at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale which I had a far greater interest in. This was for a much shorter time frame but was certainly a great learning experience. Work Experience Python Developer Hobbyist September 2018 to May 2019 Learning to program in python has been an extracurricular endeavor for me which I initially pursued looking to break into fields related to biological data analysis. Although I still deem myself a novice, I have a large passion and love for programming and hope to continue to expand my knowledge with python or related languages. University Lab Experience UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT CHICAGO - Chicago, IL August 2014 to May 2019 During my time at university I have taken over 10 different lab courses ranging from Microbiology, Genetics, Organic Chemistry and more. Through my experience in lab I have learned numerous invaluable skills such as perfecting my aseptic technique, PCR analysis, Northern and Western Blotting and More. Emergency Medical Scribe Scribe Connect May 2016 to July 2017 My responsibilities included helping the physicians that I worked under in anyway needed. The primary focus of my job was charting all the medical information provided to me by the doctors for documentation in a program known as Medhost. I have approaching 1000 hours of experience in the emergency department as a scribe over the two summers between pursuing my degree. Ebay Store Owner eBay - Self Employed May 2015 to July 2017 During my first year of university, I began selling small electronics on eBay as a side hobby which quickly developed into a passion. This passion allowed me to grow a small to mid-range eBay store which netted roughly $75K in sales during the first 18 months. I still enjoy entrepreneurial venture today and am currently expanding my passion into new opportunities. Education B.S. in BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT CHICAGO - Chicago, IL May 2019 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Python (Less than 1 year), Biological, Chemical and Medical Terminology (5 years), Aseptic, Staining, Monitoring, Microbiology, Sterility, Biology Additional Information SKILLS  • Able to read and speak Spanish on an intermediate level.  • Moderate experience with Python  • Skilled at creating and editing media in Sony Vegas Pro.  • 85 WPM Typing Speed    • Versed in biological, chemical and medical terminology.  • Versed in Microsoft Office  • Extremely hospitable and outgoing individual who is quick to learn.