Programmer Developer Programmer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Programmer Developer - Peregrine Technical Solutions LLC New Orleans, LA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Programmer Developer Peregrine Technical Solutions LLC - New Orleans, LA June 2016 to Present ? Develop middle-tier Java and SQL components for the 4.2 release cycle of an internal Navy website.  ? Create Java classes that take search queries, insert and modify records, check user capabilities and area of responsibility to approve or deny actions, perform calculations, and store the results in response objects to  return to the front-end for display.  ? Read through and edit existing code written years ago to correct defects, meet new requirements, and add  new functionalities.  ? Write SQL searches that return fields from multiple joined tables of data and filter through several fields  using regular expressions, switching certain clauses in and out with Java according to the search terms  provided.  ? Attend weekly team meetings in order to provide progress reports, interpret requirements, and discuss  challenging bugs alongside front- and back-end developers.  ? Receive defect reports from testers, diagnose the specific issues, and submit corrections in a timely  manner.  ? Develop Java code in Netbeans, edit SQL in Toad, deploy code to JBoss server, and version control with  Serena Dimensions. Summer Intern Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Lab - Laurel, MD June 2015 to August 2015 Taught myself XCode and Apple's Swift language to create an iOS  memory game. Players would drag and drop icons on screen to connect network ports with their corresponding protocols as a timer ran down. Easier difficult would help players learn to associate a port with its protocol, harder difficulties would test players matching ability with distractions. Game also kept track of combos and high scores. Secret Security Clearance. Summer Intern Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Lab - Laurel, MD June 2014 to August 2014 Updated an older library of legacy C code to fit the newer standards, and adapted this C code to write a C++ program that would parse and analyze a large Navy data set. Users had previously been doing some work in C using the command line and the rest in MATLAB, but I created a GUI for the C++ program using MATLAB and TCL/TK. Secret Security Clearance. NSF REU Intern Tulane University Neuroscience Lab - New Orleans, LA June 2013 to August 2013 Wrote MATLAB scripts to take large EEG brain data sheets from Excel and turn them into visual maps of brain activity over time that could be compared at a glance. Created and formatted the graphs, charts, and other data visualizations that would be used in the research  paper. Python Programmer Startup Weekend New Orleans - New Orleans, LA 2013 to 2013 Formed a team in a weekend-long competition to design, build, and present a product for a potential  business.  ? Wrote python scripts for a Congressional Accountability site that pulled HTML pages from the internet and parsed through them for specific words and phrases to ascertain one's congressperson's stances on  particular issues. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Xavier University of Louisiana May 2015 Diploma with Honors Brother Martin High School May 2011 Skills Java (5 years), JBoss (2 years), SQL (2 years), Serena Dimensions Version Control (2 years), Python (1 year), Toad (2 years), MATLAB (1 year), Emacs (3 years), Netbeans (2 years), Waterfall (2 years), Agile (1 year) Awards GEM Fellow, National GEM Consortium 2015 Experience Microsoft at Microsoft Headquarters 2013-03 Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities & Colleges 2014 Xavier University’s Board of Trustees Scholarship 2011 Maintained through four years of college Xavier University Dean's List 2011 Also 2012-2013 year, 2013-2014 year Groups National Society of Black Engineers September 2011 to May 2015 Additional Information ? Cross Country Team, 2007-14, NAIA National Conference 2011, 2012, 2014  ? Philosopher’s Club 2013-14 Academic Year