Program Coordinator and Python Developer Program Coordinator and <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Program Coordinator and Python Developer - Mercatus Center Arlington, VA Work Experience Program Coordinator and Python Developer Mercatus Center - Arlington, VA May 2016 to Present Aiding in the development and improvement of the open-sourced QuantGov policy analytics platform, which uses text analysis and machine learning to create datasets from regulatory and other legal text. Updating the RegData project, which uses the QuantGov  platform to analyze the Code of Federal Regulations and to estimate the extent to which U.S. industries are regulated.  Producing datasets for the State RegData project, which involves web scraping regulatory codes from state government websites,  converting the documents to text, and using the QuantGov platform to analyze the text.  Developing and improving the Mercatus Accounting Platform, which uses Python to programmatically extract raw data from government websites and other sources, create data visualizations, and perform data analysis. Coauthoring and managing the production of the quarterly Economic Situation Report by economist Bruce Yandle, which involves  drafting charts and original research on the economic and regulatory situation of various states.  Various research assistance tasks, including gathering data for quantitative projects, producing literature reviews, and drafting charts. Research Fellow The Center for Vision & Values at Grove City College - Grove City, PA August 2014 to May 2016 Researched data and articles for research projects for Dr. Tracy Miller and Dr. Jeffrey Herbener, professors of Economics.  Edited research papers and op-eds for Dr. Miller on welfare, immigration, and healthcare policy.  Conducted research for a paper on international economics and monetary theory for Dr. Herbener. Economic Policy Intern The Center for Vision & Values at Grove City College - Washington, DC June 2015 to August 2015 Aided the director and fellows of Economics21 with various research projects, including data gathering and writing.  Wrote over a dozen op-eds on topics of my interest. Self-managed the writing and brainstorming process for the articles. Fellow Mississippi Center for Public Policy - Jackson, MS June 2014 to August 2014 Aided the president and policy director of MCPP in various research projects.  Researched and edited large data sets for a project on education using Excel.  Worked on several independent research projects, developing self-starting and self-motivating working habits. Education B.A. in Economics in Economics Grove City College - Grove City, PA Skills Python (2 years), Data Analysis (3 years), Data Visualization (1 year), Machine Learning (1 year), Web Scraping (1 year), Git (2 years) Links https://github.com/jnelson16