Data Analyst Data Analyst Plymouth, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Analyst Cognizant Technology Solutions - White Plains, NY September 2018 to Present Lead Reporting and Analytics team and act as the main point of contact for a variety of people from business,  including marketing, sales, and finances.  • Manage offshore team and maintain a strong working relationship business users by establishing an effective  communication.  • Manage and maintain scheduled reports, online tableau portals, and tableau data source.  • Working with stakeholders to understand complex business needs, data requirements and then translate requirements  into effective reporting, visualization and actionable insights.  • Perform ad-hoc analysis to help senior management to make educated business decisions.  • Provide marketing decisions by developing survey, analyzing results, and building visualized survey reports.  • Closely work with IT, Equipment, and Data teams to ensure the connectivity of the equipment. Pega Testing Analyst / Pega Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Florham Park, NJ August 2017 to September 2018 • Work as part of Internal Quality Testing team to ensure requirements are documented and covered by tests.  • Create and review test plans, test sceneries, test cases as per functional requirement documents.  • Perform manual tests by preparing test data and executing test cases step by step.  • Collaborated with developers to reproduce and test defects, and validate corrections made to those defects.  • Identify, record, and track defects, steps to reproduce the defects.  • Write and execute complex SQL queries to manipulate test data in DB2 and PEGADB.  • Help developing a healthcare application based on business requirements by debugging activities, rules, UI elements,  and flows. Teaching Assistant for Python Syracuse University, School of Information Studies - Syracuse, NY January 2017 to May 2017 • Assisted instructors with their lab and homework evaluation and answer students' questions.  • Helped 140 students analyze complex problems by thinking computationally and systematically.  • Supported students individually during off-classroom hours. Education B.S in Information Management and Technology Syracuse University, School of Information Studies - Syracuse, NY August 2013 to May 2017 Skills Pega (1 year), SQL (3 years), Testing (Less than 1 year), Business Intelligence, HTML (3 years), Tableau (1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), CSS3 (3 years), Data Analysis (2 years), Python (3 years), R language (1 year), Powerpoint, Microsoft Office, access, Visio, MS Office Certifications/Licenses Pega Certified System Architect October 2017 to Present Pega Certified Business Architect November 2017 to Present Uipath August 2018 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: R, Python, PL/SQL, SQL, HTML, CSS, jQuery  Applications: Tableau, Microsoft Access, Uipath, Anypoint Studio, Pega Designer Studio, Pega Robotic Automation Studio,  MS Project, MS Visio, MS Excel, Invision, Adobe Illustrator  Language: Native in English and Mandarin Chinese