Python Engineer <span class="hl">Python</span> Engineer Python Engineer San Francisco, CA Employment as a Software Engineer utilizing and expanding upon my professional  experience with Python application development, web services and Agile team projects;  recent educational background in OO languages, RDBMSs, compiler writing and  non-deterministic problem solving.    Relevant Technical Background  Projects:: Five years working with Python across major web frameworks, Django,  Flask, and CherryPy. Implementation of django-rest-framework and Tastypie  RESTful APIs, Django built-in ORM and SQLAlchemy. Deployment with  managed solutions Heroku & Elastic Beanstalk.  RDBMSs:: Designed and maintained Postgres, MySQL, Dynamo DBs, Redis.  Web Services:: AWS Console, New Relic, Mixpanel, CircleCI, Braintree. Work Experience Python Engineer VMware - Palo Alto, CA 2015 to 2016 Designed and developed  CherryPy based API for a desktop application used to reset high performance  EVO: Rail servers to their factory configuration. Built data objects in SQLAlchemy.  Packaged API and AngularJS frontend into GitHub Electron application.  Completed licensing and patent procedures. Fullstack Engineer Kiip - San Francisco, CA 2014 to 2015 Led development of business logic for Fortune 500 white label SDK. Designed, built and deployed Django- Python/  Postgres mobile and web APIs on Heroku virtual servers. Wrote celery tasks to optimize response latency and replay metrics pipeline following security breach  (Celery, RabbitMQ, Cron, S3). Took full stack ownership of user facing dashboard  features tables on Redshift data warehouse. Backend Web Developer Chapulin - Redwood City, CA 2013 to 2013 Wrote and tested  Python based business logic and 3rd party SDK integrations (AWS, PayPal, Twilio) in the CherryPy framework. Worked on a small team to design, discuss and review  app specifications. Software Engineer II. Team leader of 4 Hewlett-Packard - Palo Alto, CA 2012 to 2013 engineers, working on client-facing Java projects for sales transformation.  Detected and repaired long standing critical defects in sales platform. Education BA in Computer Science Bard College - Annandale-on-Hudson, NY 2012 Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (Summer) Stanford University - Palo Alto, CA 2011 Discrete Mathematics and Number Theory (Summer) University of California - Berkeley, CA 2010