MarketPlace, Software Engineer Intern MarketPlace, Software Engineer Intern MarketPlace, Software Engineer Intern Petaluma, CA, US Work Experience MarketPlace, Software Engineer Intern Facebook - Menlo Park, CA, US June 2018 to September 2018 • Participated as a part of digital content payment team to build mobile web end payment pages via React, Relay, PHP and GraphQL.  • Targeted and served for 29% Facebook mobile users, achieved monthly growth of click rate from 0 to 60M.  • Implement the feature to support monthly subscription such as donation, group etc.  • Worked with ReactJS framework to render / unify different receipt corresponding to the different specific request. Professional Service, Software Engineer (Devops) Intern Juniper Network - Sunnyvale, CA, US June 2017 to January 2018 Helped organizations assess, design, deploy and migrate data center architectures to ones that reduce complexity and enhance  performance, scalability, and agility.  • Let the lab testing process identify and address areas of security risk and exposure automatically.  • Built CI/CD Pipeline for automated implementation and testing of network infra via Gitlab CI, Vagrant and Docker.  • Contributed the solution that ensured in an automated fashion that professional services teams always leveraged the latest  company VM images and plugin versions.  • System completely automated team weekly toil for management of VM & plugin versions, saving 2 manual hours per week. Python Developer EVTV Motor Workers - Cape Girardeau, MO, US January 2016 to August 2016 • Developed a Django ( Python) web application to manage user portfolio and send event reminder emails.  • Designed the login, user profile, event and other pages with reusable templates.  • Applied the built-in SMTP feature and smart rate-limiting to support email sending feature.  • Dockerized the application for the rapid deployment on AWS to ensure the better scale.  • Performed load testing (JMeter) and daily maintenance to decrease the crash "downtime". Technical Representative/Part time McLean Investment - Cape Girardeau, MO, US 2014 to 2015 • Retrieved and updated operational benchmarks, budget and geographical data from Microsoft SQL server.  • Created and optimized stored procedures and indexes through T-SQL, substantially raising query efficiency.  • Conducted data visualization pipeline to create dashboard for storytelling and providing meaningful insights.    SELECTED PROJECT Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Santa Clara University - Santa Clara, CA, US March 2019 Accounting Southeast Missouri State University - Cape Girardeau, MO, US January 2016 Skills AWS (Less than 1 year), DJANGO (Less than 1 year), PYTHON (Less than 1 year), APACHE CASSANDRA (Less than 1 year), ASTERADATA (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jialu-sun-cse/ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Programming Languages: Java, Python, JavaScript, PHP, Shell Scripting, html5, css/scss  • Frameworks: React.js, Express.js, Vue.js, Node.js, Django, Bootstrap  • Databases: MySQL, PostgreSQL, Redis, MongoDB, Cassandra, HBase, Hive, GraphQL  • Platform Tools: J2EE, AWS, ElasticSearch, Git, Jenkins, Ansible, Docker (Swarm, Machine, Compose), Vagrant