Intern at Automation Anywhere Intern at Automation Anywhere Intern at Automation Anywhere - Mongo, Express, ReactJS, NodeJS Work Experience Intern at Automation Anywhere Mongo, Express, ReactJS, NodeJS July 2018 to Present Developed a website using MERN stack (Mongo, Express, ReactJS, NodeJS).  ? Worked with Tesseract 4, opencv, pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib, Object Detection, NLP, Deep Learning  Tensorflow, keras, sklearn, Image processing, pillow, NLP.  ? Implementing log4j for the platform issues.  ? OCR Evaluation (Detecting most common OCR errors).  ? Gained hands on experience with Robotic Process Automation (RPA certified).  ? Created a chat bot (Slack) using natural language processing, python and machine learning where employees can communicate to clarify their questions through this bot. Python developer for Text Mining George Mason University September 2017 to February 2018 Worked under the guidance of prof Mathiaz Renz.  ? Source data set consists of emails in the form of text documents obtained from the internet, the files  are of kb size which consists information related to different topics people discussing.  ? Using Python (pandas framework) we need to extract useful and unique terms/keywords with TFIDF  (Term Frequency and Inverse Document Frequency), which gives about the frequency of the terms,  rank them according to their occurrences and give high priority to the words which appear unique and ignore the key words like (for, in, as) which appear in every document.  ? We can group the unique keywords using clustering techniques like k-means, optics etc. Java programmer JPMC - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2016 to January 2017 Developed a java code for Taxation project which the JPMC is using currently. The taxation project  deals with the total amount of tax deductions depending upon the designation of the employer and given the net salary. Education MS in Computational Science George Mason University BTech in Computer Science Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology(CBIT) - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Android (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Data Structures (Less than 1 year), Java (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  C C++ Java Data Structures Java Script RDBMS SQL (DATABASE SYSTEMS) python Fortan  HTML CSS PHP R Linux Android JSP MongoDB Express ReactJS NodeJS NLP opencv  Tesseract.