Junior Software Engineer (React + Node + MongoDB) Junior Software Engineer (React + Node + MongoDB) React.js (Redux) + Node.js Web Engineer with SSR experience Los Angeles, CA Software Developer with a passion for web application development and success in managing development projects using Scrum, Agile, and Lean processes. Skilled in conceptualizing, designing, development, and deploying software containing logical and mathematical solutions to business problems. Dedicated to driving innovation with the ability to follow industry and technological trends, and facilitating early adoption of innovations. Work Experience Junior Software Engineer (React + Node + MongoDB) CZ Consultants Inc - Santa Monica, CA February 2018 to Present • Design, develop and test JS apps using React, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap + Material(on diff projects).  • Implemented SSR using Next on various projects  • Deployed Node APIs and React SPAs on Heroku as well as AWS.  • Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance the user experience, used tools like cross-browser testing and styled components.  • Used React-Router to turn the application into Single Page Application.  • Converted a few stateful to stateless components.  • Used Web services ( RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of JSON.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on an everyday basis. Software Engineer (Node + Python + MySQL + RoR) (Bootcamp) Coding Dojo Los Angeles - Burbank, CA January 2018 to May 2018 Completed an immersive coding bootcamp focused on full-stack web development with concentration on MEAN, Python/Django, Ruby on Rails Web Developer CZ Consultants Inc - Marina del Rey, CA February 2017 to January 2018 • Write and maintain code for web-based application using HTML/CSS and JavaScript  • Generate documentation on the functionalities created by the team  • Collaborating with other development team members QA ENGINEER USAisle - Sunnyvale, CA April 2016 to February 2017 • Implemented automation using Selenium Webdriver with JAVA.  • Wrote SQL queries extensively, queried database and generated test reports.  • Determined testing requirements developed and reviewed scripts for positive and negative test scenarios, conducted baseline testing, and generated reports.  • Worked in a highly dynamic AGILE environment and participated in scrum and sprint meetings.  • Analyzed application, system, and security errors. Escalated issues to developers and verified fixes.  • Designed test plans and defined cases for functional, integration system, and user acceptance testing.  • Assisted Manager by providing automation strategies, Selenium Automation and test reports.  • Attended weekly defect report meetings and presented progress updates. WEB DEVELOPER Assets Realtor World Co - Bangkok, TH April 2004 to January 2006 Co-developed a secure website using PHP, Dreamweaver, Flash, Photoshop. Education Bachelor's Coding Bootcamp in RoR, Pythong, Node, Angular & React Coding Dojo - Burbank, CA Skills Javascript (Less than 1 year), MongoDB (1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), HTML, Linux, SQL, React (1 year), MySQL (1 year), Loopback (1 year), Redux (1 year), HTML 5, Git Additional Information Skills  • Frontend: React.js/ Redux, Angular 4, Twitter Bootstrap, Materialize-CSS, HTML5, CSS3  • Backend: Node.js, Django, Ruby on Rails  • Framework: Next.js, Express, EJS,  • Database: MongoDB, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Firebase, Firestore  • Languages: JavaScript, Python, Ruby, Java    • Wireframing: Balsamiq  • Version Control: Git Bitbucket/Github  • IDE: Visual Studio Code, Atom, Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA  • AGILE tools: Jira, Asana, Slack  • Testing Tools: Selenium IDE/Webdriver/Grid, Protractor, jUnit/TestNG, Firebug, Firepath