Software Developer Contractor Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Contractor Software Developer Contractor Solon, OH Recent graduate from Case Western Reserve University with a bachelor's degree in computer science.  Experienced in designing, implementing, and debugging software in both start-up and corporate  environments. Strong foundation in agile development principles. Self-starter who is comfortable working  both independently and as part of a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Contractor Battelle Memorial Institute - Columbus, OH August 2017 to April 2018 Developed web applications for the risk assessment department.  ? Worked closely with senior researchers.  ? Worked on the front-ends of a HTML | CSS | Javascript | MSSQL |  ASP.NET full stack website that manage s objects.  ? Implemented features in various projects utilizing Vue.js, Bulma.io, and .NET. project manager and software engineer A Musician's Home - Cleveland, OH March 2017 to April 2017 Cleveland, Ohio  Databases Final Project, Mar 2017 to Apr 2017  ? Created a website using Django, MySQL, JQuery, and  Materialize CSS.  ? Served as both project manager and software engineer.  ? Website allows musicians to view and share instruments,  supplies and music. Computer Science Intern Neomatix LTD - Tel Aviv, IL June 2016 to August 2016 Created a live stream of low resolution images captured by cameras.  ? Learned GStreamer and ZeroMQ C libraries and implemented live  stream within 2 months. Summer Intern American Greetings LLC - Cleveland, OH May 2015 to August 2015 Fixed and patched bugs for both frontend and backend of Python and Java based websites.  ? Quickly learned multiple in-house web frameworks and began  fixing bugs within a week of being introduced to the project. Software Engineer NeuroProcess LLC - Cleveland, OH May 2014 to August 2014 Developed web based applications as well as sample/demo Android  applications for neuropsychological tests.  ? Created applications to allow a test administrators to follow on any  web platform a test taker's progress on an Android tablet. Summer Intern - Python/C++ developer Qbeats Inc - New York, NY June 2013 to August 2013 Developed/improved Qt5 based software as well as made bug fixes.  ? Utilized Django's Python framework to secure web pages (using  verification/identification) and improve their design. Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science Case Western Reserve University - Cleveland, OH 2017 Skills CSS (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), JAVASCRIPT (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), C, Java, Linux, Python Links http://github.com/bnp26 Additional Information Skills  Solid background and advanced knowledge in computer development software including Java, Android,  Python, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML/CSS, C/C++, PHP, Django, SQL, GIT, Mercurial, Go, C#. Ability to  solve complex problems independently. Experience with project management, UI design and implementation.