Data Scientist Data Scientist Graduate Data Science | Looking for Full time opportunity Washington, DC I am a Data Scientist and a Software Engineer with 5 years of work experience. I love to code, and I am passionate about working with data. My expertise is in understanding the data and extracting meaningful insights from it. I bring to the table software development skills, data analytics skills along with a strong business acumen. My aspiration is to work with clients and transform their needs into data driven solutions. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Data Scientist The George Washington University Regulatory Studies Center - GWU - Washington, DC December 2018 to Present • Helped the Policy analysts to design, develop policy data products for multiple audiences including state and district leaders.  •  Web scraped FDA, EPA and USDA public comments (flat files, pdf’s) using python.  • Applied NLP to perform sentiment analysis on the comments to inform Agency regulatory reform efforts.  Accomplishments – Automated the manual policy review methodologies. Data Analyst Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors - Virginia September 2018 to December 2018 • Created dashboards by performing impact analysis on survey data using Tableau.  • Building an architecture to store to store all their data.  • Accomplishment: Enabled TAPS to perform data driven decisions by using the analysis that I performed on the survey data. Data Scientist Intern Akira Technologies - Washington, DC September 2018 to December 2018 • Developed IAM POC by interacting with SQL Graph Database for analyzing employee to employee relationship.  • Implemented Machine Learning Algorithms to predict employee’s performance.  Accomplishments - Generated a Network Analysis Graph to represent hierarchy of the organization. Senior Research Assistant ( Python Developer) Computational Bioinformatics Lab - Washington, DC March 2018 to August 2018 • Built the genomic datasets and data pipeline by web scraping and data wrangling the NIH website.   • Led a consulting project for Biopharma client and implemented various bio tools on their AWS infra.  • Developed data models/metadata for the lab.  Accomplishments - Key player in the successful launch of the Lab’s data pipeline portal.  Data Czar (Data Analyst) Office of Innovation and Entrepreneurship - Washington, DC February 2018 to March 2018 • Built the genomic datasets and data pipeline by web scraping and data wrangling the NIH website.   • Led a consulting project for Biopharma client and implemented various bio tools on their AWS infra.  • Developed data models/metadata for the lab.  Accomplishments - Key player in the successful launch of the Lab’s data pipeline portal.  Software Engineer Harbinger Systems - IN December 2013 to June 2017 • Key contributor in developing various modules for Healthcare and E Learning projects using JAVA, SQL.  • Automated the manual deployment process by independently developing a tool in python.  • Mentored and coached a batch of college graduates and helped them with their pilot project.  Accomplishments - The automation reduced the deployment time by 60% and got an achiever’s award from the Leadership team.    Education Master's in Data Science The George Washington University - Washington, DC August 2017 to May 2019 Master's in Computer Application Symbiosis International University - Maharashtra, India June 2012 to May 2014 Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Pune - Maharashtra, India June 2009 to May 2012 Skills JAVASCRIPT (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), SQL (3 years), JAVA (3 years), jQuery (3 years), Excel, Data Entry, Data Analysis, Tableau, ETL, R programming (2 years), SAS (1 year), HTML, Microsoft Office, Powerpoint Links https://github.com/monicams89 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages/Tools: Python, R, Java, SQL, Tableau, SAS, ETL, Excel, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Unix, C, C++, PHP, GitHub  Big Data: Apache Spark, PIG, HIVE, Map Reduce, AWS (EC2)  Packages: scikit-learn, NumPy, pandas, plotly, ggplot2, twitterR, psych, sapply, bio Python  Machine Learning Algorithms: Linear and Multiple Regression, Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest, SVM, KNN, K means.