Machine Learning Fellow Machine Learning Fellow Machine Learning Fellow - Fellowship.ai Los Angeles, CA Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Machine Learning Fellow Fellowship.ai May 2019 to Present Prototyped a computer vision system using fast.ai framework in order to classify real-estate room images into 7 base  classes - Livingroom, kitchen, dining room, bathroom, bedroom, interior and exterior achieving ~ 93% accuracy. Further,  built a multi-label classification model to tag rich attributes in each base class, for e.g. kitchen: appliances, kitchen island,  etc. Livingroom: fireplace, television, etc. Data Scientist ( Python, TensorFlow, Scikit-learn) Flexiloans Technologies Pvt. Ltd June 2017 to December 2017 Developed and deployed a CNN based image classifier with 95% accuracy using TensorFlow inception model for real time  classification of official documents.  • Created a fuzzy text matching algorithm for matching user data on official document with data provided by customers in application form; utilized Microsoft's Computer Vision API to extract text data from official documents  • Designed a python-based web scrapper to retrieve online user data for social scoring of loan applicants  • Built an NLP based sentiment classifier to classify customer reviews on various e-commerce websites into- Positive, Neutral and Negative; attained an accuracy of 81%; Software Engineer - Full Stack Developer (PHP AngularJs September 2016 to May 2017 Collaborated with an agile team of 3-5 software engineers in designing and developing a seamless web application for internal  use, reducing manual effort by as much as 50%. Implemented back-end Restful APIs with PHP-Laravel Framework and front-end with AngularJs. Database management done using MySQL & MongoDB. Systems Engineer Infosys Pvt Ltd June 2014 to March 2016 Worked at Goldman Sachs - Trading Shared Services project; collaborated with a team of 15 providing production support to Equities  Middle Office users as well as End of Day Batch report processing Chief Technology Officer Z-series Innovations March 2013 to April 2014 Managed Z-series Innovations, a one-stop solution for studying all technical stuff online. It is an online portal that provides an enhanced way of learning and guidance in various fields of engineering Education Master of Science in Electrical & Computer Engineering in Data Science University of Southern California January 2018 to December 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Telecommunication K.J Somaiya College of Engineering August 2010 to July 2014 Skills Aws (Less than 1 year), Database (Less than 1 year), Mongodb. (Less than 1 year), Mysql (Less than 1 year), Php (Less than 1 year), Machine Learning, Algorithm, Python Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/nazim-shaikh21 http://www.github.com/nazim1021 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming languages: Python, C++, MATLAB, PHP  Machine Learning: TensorFlow, Keras, Scikit-Learn, Pandas, NumPy, NLTK, PyTorch, fastai  Database: MySQL, MongoDB  Web Technologies: AngularJs, CSS3, HTML5, jQuery, AWS, Google Cloud, Git, JIRA