iOS Developer & Algorithm Specialist iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; Algorithm Specialist iOS Developer & Algorithm Specialist - LearnMast Organization San Diego, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience iOS Developer & Algorithm Specialist LearnMast Organization October 2017 to Present Designing an iOS app to diagnose and evaluate mental health issues in children based on their  parent's input in order to provide a step by step treatment plan. Created using Swift.  • Developing a recurrent neural network algorithm for the embedded classification system. Senior Analyst UCSD Student Foundation Investment Fund July 2017 to Present • Led a team of 10 analysts in modeling an investment strategy for $700,000 at UCSD's student fund.  • Analyzed and valued AMZN, AMN, and SBUX stocks using cash flow and comparative company  analysis to project future growth. Lab Intern San Diego Super-computer Center Geo-information Lab March 2017 to Present • Used Python Scrapy to extract datasets from public open sources website, cleaned up the data and created and publicized docker image, imported to SDSC data center.  • Enabled different calculations within the datasets and allowed users to customize their own version of displaying datasets on SuAVE website and to save the training sets to their own account pages. Python and C++ Programmer Assistant UC San Diego Geisel Library October 2016 to Present • Deployed a data mining system with Python's Scrapy to extract, clean and categorize text, image and video from the 'Farmworker Movement' website to expand the Roger Search System at UCSD.  • Built and maintain a MySQL database system for our ever growing dataset.  • Extracted textual data in embedded scanned images and PDFs, and converted low resolution posters and handwriting with Google Tesseract Optical Character Recognition(OCR), Leptonica ORC API and Tensorflow models. Data Analyst Macroeconomic Quantitative Analysis Research Center March 2017 to October 2017 • Scraped voting district and poll data from the Liberian government website using Python's Scrapy and BS4 to analyze Liberian electoral trends.  • Enabled head researcher productivity with intuitive data visualizations and models using R and Stata.  • Work is being used for ongoing research to forecast public opinion on key presidential figures. Software Engineer Kyocera Inc January 2016 to October 2016 Devised a surface-mount Solder Reflow device that would help engineers visualize otherwise  unobservable phenomena in an electrical system. Sponsored by Kyocera Inc.  • Used Java to create an intuitive user interface to read system temperature changes and convert  data into user friendly graphs for ease of understanding.    ORGANIZATION INVOLVEMENT Education Bachelor's in Probability-Statistics University of California - San Diego, CA June 2019 Skills PYTHON (2 years), C++ (1 year), MYSQL (1 year), JAVA (Less than 1 year), ANDROID (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  Python, C++, MySQL, Java, Javascript, Node.js, Docker, Excel, Linux, MatLab, R, Stata, Spark, HTML5,  CSS3, React Native, Assembly, Swift, Android SDK, Bash Scripting, Firebase.io, Agile Development.  Relevant Coursework by Summer 2018:Advanced Software Engineering, Advanced Machine Learning