Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - InfoSmart Technologies Santa Clara, CA • Experience of 2 years as Developer (Java and Python).  • Working knowledge in design and development of applications using .NET, C#, JSP, Servlets, JSF, JDBC, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Webservices(SOAP-RESTFUL) and jQuery.  • Worked with integrated development environments like MyEclipse, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite.  • Good Knowledge on UML diagrams and implementing Data Structures.  • Good knowledge in writing SQL queries with major Relational Databases like Oracle, SQL Server.  • Good Knowledge on Network Essentials TCP/IP.  • Good knowledge on Linux Administration.  • Having Strong written and oral communication skills.  • Worked on individual and multi-disciplinary team projects.  • Excellent team-management and leadership qualities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer InfoSmart Technologies February 2017 to Present Worked on web portal which provides the Health Insurance applications from InfoSmart website to their employees. Worked on user interface screens and backend functionality part of the agile sprint task. Integrated with other applications on the backend.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile SCRUM SDLC process to implement the sprint tasks which are 4 weeks.  • Developed web layer using Spring MVC along with UI technologies like HTML5, CSS3. jQuery and AJAX  • Implemented AJAX calls for the asynchronous calls from the user interface screens  • Implemented Hibernate framework as ORM for DAO layer to access the Oracle database.  • Implemented Entity classes for ORM mappings and HQL queries for data retrieval.  • Used Spring ORM to integrate spring framework with Hibernate.  • Extracted Data from JSON and XML.  • Automation of configuration and management through GIT.  • Implement, maintain and enhance the integration between Smartbear Code Collaborator and GITcoded in Python.  • Developed and debugged the application using Eclipse IDE.  • Maven for the application builds and Jenkins for the continuous integration.  • Used JIRA for the Agile project management and issue tracking.  • Participated in daily scrum meetings, sprint planning sessions. Role - Python Developer Dega Software Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to June 2015 The project was about developing a tool which creates visual shapes using the shapefile concept (point, polyline and polygon). It takes multiple input values and basing on those values the output would be formatted. The input values are primarily the location points and altitude values. The input can be given manually using UI of tool or can be given by excel or CSV files. The output would be shaped in visual 3d model and presented in picture format. Visual 3D presentation can be achieved with the usage of VPython.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive solution.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Worked with Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code.  • Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • With a team of 3, developed an application (for GIS engineers) using PYTHON which creates shapefile (shapefile=point or line or polygon shape with any data belonging to it), by inputting appropriate latitude, longitude, altitude values into the table.  • Using Numpy module we created arrays which can store multiple input values and also manipulate the values in a way to configure the process flow.  • The API was designed by us using the Tkinter module which is the primary module used in the industry to create any kind of graphical UI.  • Designed the API in a way that one can even convert a CSV file to .shp files provided they are tabulated properly.  • Designed the style of output in a way that it can be viewed in the form of 3D shape and this can be achieved with usage of VPython.  • Used Matrix concepts for integrating the altitude field in API. Education M.S. in Computer Science University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO December 2016 B.Tech. in Digital Techniques for Designing and Planning Jawaharlal Nehru Architecture and Fine Arts University June 2015 Skills PYTHON (1 year), AJAX (Less than 1 year), JAVA (Less than 1 year), jQuery (Less than 1 year), JSON (Less than 1 year), AWS (Less than 1 year), Amazon Web Services (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Associate Developer November 2017 to November 2019 Pega Certified System Architect Present Pega CSA 71V1 Additional Information SKILLS  • Programming Languages: C, C++, JAVA, C#, .NET, PYTHON  • Web Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, XML, Ajax, JSON, DOM, XHTML  • Databases & languages: Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, MySQL & ORM Framework Hibernate.  • Java Technologies: Servlets, JSP  • Web Services: SOAP, RESTful  • Networking: TCP/IP Fundamentals, IP Addressing, IP Services (DNS, DHCP, NTP etc), Routing Protocols (OSPF, BGP), NAT, Access-Control Lists  • Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Mac OS    OTHER SKILLS  Adobe Photoshop, Inkscape, Freehand, Corel Draw, Illustrator, Adobe Premier Pro, Adobe Flash, Autodesk Autocad, Autodesk Autocad Map 3D, Adobe Illustrator, Autodesk Revit.