Lead Robotics Curriculum Developer- Python and Raspberry Pi Lead Robotics Curriculum <span class="hl">Developer</span>- <span class="hl">Python</span> and Raspberry Pi Mechatronics and Automation Engineer Brooklyn, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Robotics Curriculum Developer- Python and Raspberry Pi International Ivy - New Jersey April 2018 to Present Work closely with the Program Director to design and develop, and revise curriculum and training materials such as lesson plans, worksheets, student content and facilitator training guides and PowerPoints that meet program needs in the areas of 3D Design and validation, Raspberry Pi and Python programming.    Oversee and update teacher and mentor online instructional content such as student worksheets, games, teacher and mentor teaching tips, and training videos.    Responsible for creating curriculum implementation materials such as sample program pacing guides and lesson planning templates. Graduate Teaching Assistant New York University - Brooklyn, NY January 2017 to August 2017 Contributed as a Teaching Assistant for Research and Design Methodology program in the Department of Mechanical Engineering.    Major responsibilities include researching on major technological innovations, writing reports on scientific articles and teaching special topics.    Played an active part in designing and updating the current curriculum to include more advanced topics. Process Improvement Engineer Schneider International GmhB February 2012 to May 2015 Led a new product management team of 4 Operators, 2 Procurement Assistants and 20 Technicians that designed and developed FDM 3D Printing technology to replace SLS.    Assisted with design of electro-mechanical engineering projects, including products, parts and components.    Defined manufacturing performance standards in line with the Toyota Production system and reviewed the outcome to establish future targets.    Directed a Process Excellence Team that promoted Kaizen, ensuring standardization across all facilities.    Managed and tracked inventory usage setting optimal replenishment thresholds by using Mathematical Programming techniques and existing supply chain data. Operations Management Trainee - Plant Operations Larsen and Toubro Valves October 2011 to January 2012 Established ideal cross-functional process flow for logistics requests processed by Fleet Operations which include over dimensional super loads, generators, tankers and stores.    Performed process audit for the Globe Valve Assembly Operation and decreased the defect rate from 12% to 5% by promoting vacuum sealing. Education Master of Science in Mechatronics and Robotics Engineering New York University - New York, NY 2017 Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2015 Skills Computer Vision- Python, OpenCV (2 years), MATLAB and Simulink Modelling (2 years), 3D Modelling- Solidworks, Creo (PRO-E) (4 years), Deep neural networks (1 year), Assistive/Medical Robotic Devices- Design and Control (1 year), Modular Robot Programming (3 years), Electro-Mechanical Systems (4 years), Lean Six Sigma (3 years), Kaizen (2 years), Product Development (3 years), Continuous Improvement (3 years) Links http://mitravarun1.wix.com/mitra Certifications/Licenses Self Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree From Udacity Python and OpenCV for Computer Vision From pyImageSearch Gurus Groups Society of Automotive Engineers March 2011 to Present New York Institute of Science August 2015 to Present Additional Information Latest Projects (More in website):    CNN based Mobile Robot for Industrial Material Transfer, M.S Research Project- Developed a mobile robotic system that integrates image processing, deep neural networks, and behavioral cloning to assist the transfer of materials in a dynamic industrial environment without using a pre-saved map.    Smart Gun Design, Course Project- Developed an alternative smart gun technology that combines the safety of fingerprint sensors with the efficiency of RFID technology through a modular design.    Forget Me Not Walking Stick, Course Project- Designed and developed a modular stand-alone walking stick that uses BLE technology and iBeacons that reminds/ warns seniors suffering from any form of memory loss about all the important things in their home.