Machine Learning/Data Analytic Engineer/ Python Developer Machine Learning/Data Analytic Engineer/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Machine Learning/Data Analytic Engineer/ Python Developer - Mental Health Association Brooklyn, NY Work Experience Machine Learning/Data Analytic Engineer/ Python Developer Mental Health Association - New York, NY June 2017 to Present Develop Machine Learning algorithms for call valume forecasting and call center  capacity.  Developed in house client facing Flask + d3.js interactive dashboards.  Developed custom Tableau Dashboards that are controlled and dynamically  updated via a python module that pulls dashboards from Tableau server and manipulates the .tdb xml tree. The module will eventually be a python package.  Currently, it contains 3 classes, 1 exception class and a unnittest. Makes heavy use of python's xml.etree.ElementTree and regular expressions.  Tableau Server Administrator for MHA of NYC. Maintain published data sources.  Developed a series of bash scripts that use Tableau server tabcmd command line  tool to automate changes to the server.  Maintain MHA's ms-SQL server. Developed triggers and stored procedures, making  use of cursors to update tables that have had data errors. Lead Data Scientist Fragomen, Del Ray, Bernson and Loewy - New York, NY November 2016 to May 2017 Develop Machine learning algorithms in Python to predict visa processing Times.  Use Tableau, D3.js, Shiny, to create interactive visualizations.  Perform advanced SQL techniques to clean/process data sets to enhance reliability of data science deliverables.  Write data reports and present to firm partners. Lead Data Scientist Nature's Bounty - New York, NY December 2015 to November 2016 Use Python and Java to create consumer sentiment learning algorithms to predict the consumer's chances of purchasing a given product.  Use T-SQL, Hadoop, Hive, PL-SQL to clean process data to a usable format and to develop algorithms to as close to the data as possible to reduce running times.  Use Tableau for visualization.  Create batch files to automate processes. Data Scientist Consultant Mimvi Technology Group - New York, NY March 2014 to November 2015 Developed Tableau dashboards in conjunction with the R programming language to enable the clients to view key metrics in order to measure the effects of SEO on  their organization.  Maintained/improved the C++ and Python, SEO algorithms Computational Statistician Intern Publishers Clearing House - Port Washington, NY October 2013 to February 2014 Wrote SAS code to maintain and improve order/sales reports.  Used SAS/ Python to perform statistical analysis.  Wrote C++ code to develop some in house statistical measures for larger data sets, to improve running time. Education PhD in Applied Math SUNY Stony Brook - Stony Brook, NY September 2015 to Present Master's of Science in Statistics CUNY Baruch College - New York, NY August 2012 to May 2015 Bachelor of Science in Accounting SUNY at Old Westbury - Old Westbury, NY May 2010 to May 2012 Skills PYTHON (4 years), C++ (2 years), SQL (2 years), Hadoop (Less than 1 year), HADOOP (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills:  Programming  Python 3, Python 2, R, C++, C, C#, Java, JavaScript, JQuery, SAS    APIs  numpy, pandas, Tableau javascript api    Web Design Tools  Flask, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap    Database Technologies  Oracle, MySql, MS-SQL, SQLite, Hive, Hadoop, T-SQL, PL-SQL, Spark