Tag Design and Activation Analyst Tag Design and Activation Analyst Oak Park, MI Elisa is a dedicated learner who is working to fulfill a career in software development. She has a light-hearted personality and enjoy working with others. She is an earnest advocate for women and the LGBTQ community, with zeal in regards to STEM.    Elisa graduated in 2015 from Indiana University with a degree in Informatics specializing in Business and a minor in Telecommunications. She enjoys getting involved with extracurricular activities in and outside of the workplace. She is constantly learning by attending TED talks, technology conventions in San Fransisco, and reading anything and everything. She currently is a co-lead for Team Pride, the LGBTQ group at her work (for more information on this please see the Organizations section). She is also an involved member of Strive, the Young Professional group, coordinating events and assisting in the Intern-Mentor program at GTB.     In her free time, Elisa enjoys traveling, learning about new cultures, reading, hiking, and cooking with a good glass of wine in hand.    Specialties: Python, PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Adobe DTM (Dynamic Tag Manger) , Object Oriented Programming (Please refer to the skills section for her full skill set). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Tag Design and Activation Analyst GTB - Dearborn, MI May 2016 to Present Implementing Ford and Lincoln's analytics tags/3rd party tags in Adobe Dynamic Tag Management (DTM) for their global websites using proper DTM Mapping and creating Data Layers. Creating custom JavaScript logic for implementation when needed. Troubleshooting tags through  DTM, developer tools, and Adobe analytics. Assistant Web Developer GTB - Dearborn, MI December 2015 to May 2016 Developed website for Johnson Controls Global battery line from initiation to system implementation using PHP, HTML5, SASS, CONCRETE5, GULP, and SVN. Translated websites into 10+ languages resulting increased customer approval. Technology Intern GTB - Dearborn, MI October 2015 to December 2015 Redesigned Henry Ford Estate Website to include responsive design using Concrete5, HTML5 and CSS. Undergraduate Instructor - Python I & II Indiana University Bloomington - Bloomington, IN January 2015 to August 2015 Held weekly labs and office hours for undergraduate students. Worked with students to assure the accuracy of homework and lab practicals while providing constructive feedback. This resulted in improved overall GPA and heightened learning of current coding practices. Social Strategist Intern Team Detroit - Dearborn, MI June 2014 to August 2014 Managed Facebook platforms for Ford Motor Company in order to ensure improved client experience. Reported weekly engagement rates to the client showing overall trends. Education BS in Informatics Indiana University - Bloomington, IN December 2015 Skills JAVASCRIPT (1 year), BOOTSTRAP (1 year), ILLUSTRATOR (Less than 1 year), MENTOR (2 years), HTML 5 (3 years), PYTHON (2 years), JIRA (2 years), DTM (Less than 1 year), WORDPRESS (Less than 1 year), CONCRETE5 (1 year), SVN (1 year), GULP.JS (1 year), PHP (2 years), SASS (1 year), MySQL (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/elisachristensen Awards O4U Technology Conference 2015-09 I was one of the top-performing LGBTQ students selected from around the country to receive the O4U scholarship. I attended this industry-focused conference which was a weekend-long summit to educate students about job opportunities in highly competitive industries — and inspire students to pursue challenging, ambitious careers. Groups Team Pride May 2016 to Present Co-lead for our internal LGBTQA group. Strive February 2016 to Present Mentor for the Intern/Mentor program and on the event committee for our internal Young Professional's group. Women in Computing at IU October 2014 to July 2015 Social media monitor/content editor. nothing_is_binary February 2015 to December 2015 LGBTQA technology group for Indiana University.