Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Vantage Point Consulting onsite at Bloomberg New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Vantage Point Consulting onsite at Bloomberg - Princeton, NJ May 2016 to Present • Long-term Project: Designed a generic solution using python that can extract all table contents and free text areas from a pdf document. This module is configurable, extendable and reusable. Currently cooperating with other groups to have implementations for their specific purposes and extending the domain of the use cases.  • Provided high-efficiency front-end pdf highlighting solutions using Amazon S3 web service crowd-sourcing technology.  • Keynote Project: QA/QC (Quality Assurance/Quality Control) Tool with Web-UI. Designed a web tool using Django with Jquery/Bootstrap for analyst to check the data input results. Helping them correct their manual processes.  • Keynote project: PDF Extraction Tool. Used Python to build a tool that can help automatically extract useful fields'  values from Ginnie Mae monthly reports, auto-storing those values into the company's database. Compared with the existing values, popping out a highlighted pdf page if values are different. School Intern MQF Program, Rutgers Business School - Newark, NJ August 2015 to May 2016 With very strong programming skills and academic standings, was selected as MQF program teaching assistant for OOP in  C++. Answered questions and helped the students solve any problems related to learning C++. Team Leader, Data Mining Course Project, RBS Text Mining - Newark, NJ October 2015 to December 2015 Implemented data mining classification methods using Python to predict MSFT's stock price change with the information  collected from tweets.  • Gathered up-to-date tweets data using Python package tweepy.  • Classified the tweets data with mining technique Naive Bayes Classifier based on Python package nltk.  • Predicted MSFT's price change using 5 minutes' up-to-date tweets data related to Microsoft. Research Assistant, Independent Research, RBS Pricing Contingent Convertible Bonds - Newark, NJ November 2014 to October 2015 Wrote a Java program to implement the Equity Derivative Approach(EDA) pricing model, analyzed the CoCos of Credit  Suisse, used MatLab to draw result charts and wrote a report using LaTex. Team Member, IAQF Academic Competition, RBS Tracking CPLI - Newark, NJ December 2014 to February 2015 Worked with 5 MQF program students to participate in the IAQF annual academic competition. Wrote a C++ program  based on artificial neural network theory to find out the relationship between CPLI and certain inputs. Designer, C++ Course Project, RBS Pricing Contingent Convertible Bonds - Newark, NJ November 2014 to December 2014 Wrote a C++ program (with GUI) using Qt to create a trading platform that provides stock prices prediction, trading  strategy implementation and performance calculation.  CERTIFICATES AND SKILLS  • CFA level II Candidate  • Python, SQL, C/C++, Qt, MatLab, R, LaTex, Java SE/EE, HTML, CSS Internship IT Division, Jiangsu Agriculture Committee - Nanjing, CN May 2013 to March 2014 Project Online Agricultural Data Report System Nanjing, China  Led a team that designed an automated web system to collect and analyze the important agricultural commodities data for the government's decision-making. Used J2EE SSH(Spring-Struts-Hibernate) as key framework. Professional in MVC design  pattern architect.  RESEARCH PROJECTS Education Master of Quantitative Finance in Beta-gamma-sigma Invitee honor Rutgers Business School - Newark, NJ September 2014 to June 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Software Engineering Nanjing University September 2010 to June 2014