Python Back-End Web Developer Intern <span class="hl">Python</span> Back-End Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Python Back-End Web Developer Intern Springdale, MD Work Experience Python Back-End Web Developer Intern PCI STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT - Columbia, MD 2017 to 2017 • Created an GUI named The Resume Application. Using the Python programming language within the IDE PyCharm, alongside the open source Python library Kivy, the app gave users the ability to search for distinct resumes using a keyword search.  • Assisted in the development of an GUI named Team Builder Application, that allowed a user to able to select, drag and set five resumes out of a pool of 20 selections.  • Drafted and presented an overview of the projects including deadlines of deliverables, programs to be used, as well as prices. Executive Board Historian National Pan-Hellenic Council 2017 to 2017 • Maintained and Updated Social Media accounts  • Kept record of all events, flyers, minutes, and printed information  • Provided role of taking photos and video content of events and meetings Project Management Intern/IT BRAILSFORD & DUNLAVEY, INC - Washington, DC 2016 to 2016 • Assisted team members with the completion of planning, pre-development and/or implementation assignments.  • Performed data collection and analysis to include focus group leading and reporting, in-person and telephone interviews, survey design and analysis, site analysis, space planning, financial modeling, and print and internet research.  • Maintained project-related documents including drawings, project binders, client correspondences, meeting minutes, action items, invoices, and similar items.  • Aided the completion of project-related financial issues including budget monitoring, revenue and expense tracking, reconciliation, and reimbursement processing.  • Researched, analyzed and presented project-related data to project managers and executives so that they may make informed decisions on methodologies, strategies, or required tasks.    Academic Honors/Organizations  • Alpha Lambda Delta National Academic Honor Society, March 2015  • Grant-Brett Promethean Kappa Tau Honor Society, March 2015  • The National Society of Leadership and Success, May 2015  • Beta Gamma Sigma Honor Society (Top 20% of Graves School of Business), May 2016  • Member of The Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc. Fall 2016    LEADERSHIP Information Technology (IT) Coordinator on Executive Board The National Society May 2015 to May 2015 • Maintained and Distributed information to the public  • In charge of publicizing events and forums    Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity Inc.  Undergraduate Board of Director, Region 1  • Collected and Gathered information on Chapters of region 1  • Collaborated with the Alumni Board Member to find and fix problems within the relations of Undergraduates and Alumni Members of Region 1. Volunteer Youth Coordinator Kappa Community Development Foundation (KCDF) - College Park, MD 2011 to 2014 Participated as youth leader and volunteer in many community service activities under the College Park Sandy Spring Alumni Chapter of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc The Youth About Business Summer Business Camp, Columbia University 2012 to June 2013 Engaged in a business competition performing merger and acquisition simulations.  • Learned how to research and analyze public companies, and challenged to think through decisions  • Learned strategic business and goal setting  • Participated in group competitions to determine and execute feasible merger transactions Education Graves School of Business December 2018 Morgan State University - Baltimore, MD Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  ? High attention to detail  ? Enthusiastic  ? Strong written and verbal communication skills.  ? Strong analytical and research skills  ? Detailed and Organized  ? Independent worker in fast-paced environment  ? Adaptability, flexibility, and creativity  ? Microsoft Office Suite including Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook  ? Python  ? C++  ? PyCharm