GSS Risk Summer Tech Analyst GSS Risk Summer Tech Analyst GSS Risk Summer Tech Analyst Las Vegas, NV Recent graduate of Cornell University with a Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science. Experience in  various computer fields such as system, network, and server administration, web development, system  programming, and software testing and debugging. Work Experience GSS Risk Summer Tech Analyst Goldman Sachs - Jersey City, NJ May 2009 to August 2009 Built standalone Java application to monitor health of Sybase DBs with extensive use of stored  procedures and high configurability. Also created internal web pages using the Apache Struts  framework, with JSPs and servlets, to view status of DB and to perform useful DB cleanup routines. Stratus Technologies - Maynard, MA October 2008 to May 2009 http://www.stratus.com/  111 Powdermill Road, Maynard, MA 01754    Analyzed Xen virtualization performance and made presentation graphs. Wrote proposals for and implemented a database schema and automated web graphing tools using MySQL, Perl, PHP, CSS, and  HTML. Server Maintainer/ Python Developer Cornell Language Resource Center - Ithaca, NY January 2007 to May 2009 Worked with Python application server Zope that served as a Web Audio Lab for University language  courses. As system maintainer, performed server installation/upgrades. Diagnosed server software and hardware problems and communicated with server vendors to resolve hardware problems. Developed  Python scripts to streamline parts of the backup process on various Linux servers. Developed C programs to sonificate server log files into sound for real-time monitoring. CS 3410 Consultant Cornell Computer Science Department September 2008 to December 2008 Consultant for CS class Computer System Organization and Programming. Held office hours to help  students with class material and projects. Collaborated with other consultants and TAs on the design of assignments, projects, and tests, and afterwards graded them. Evaluated and proctored exams. IT Summer Intern Morgan Stanley - Brooklyn, NY May 2008 to August 2008 Designed and developed a monitoring framework for the IT Security Operations team to consolidate  various monitoring scripts. The extensible framework allows users to write simple sensors to poll various  crucial system applications and alert users. Framework was written in Perl with heavy use of regular  expressions in the creation of an alerting rule processor. A Sybase DB was used in the backend. Physical Science Intern Harvard-Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory - Cambridge, MA June 2006 to September 2006 http://cfa-www.harvard.edu/saohome.html  60 Garden Street, Cambridge, MA 02138  Physical Science Intern    Set up data stream pipeline for the launch of the Japanese satellite Solarb. Set up cron jobs to rsync data from the Japanese machines. Using Python, created cluster code to parallelize data processing code.  Created website http://xrt.cfa.harvard.edu/index.php using HTML, CSS, and PHP. Ventana Systems, Inc - Harvard, MA January 2006 to June 2006 http://www.ventanasystemsinc.com/  60 Jacob Gates Road, Harvard, MA 01451  Automated Quality Assurance    Researched GUI testing tools and decided upon AutomatedQA's TestComplete. Used TestComplete to automate the GUI testing of Ventana's System Dynamics software, Vensim. Developed testing scripts in  VBScript to allow for different GUI possibilities, working closely with the primary developer of Vensim. Physical Science Intern Harvard-Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory - Cambridge, MA June 2005 to September 2005 http://cfa-www.harvard.edu/saohome.html  60 Garden Street, Cambridge, MA 02138  Physical Science Intern    Used software tools to model relationship between magnetic field lines on the solar corona and visible  coronal loops. Modeling used data and theories of force free fields, coronal filaments, and magnetic flux  ropes, collected from satellites in various formats. Multitasked preexisting FORTRAN code across a  Linux cluster using Python code. Developed extensive IDL code for graphical and analytical utilities.  Presented work and results at end of internship. Education Cornell University September 2006 to December 2010 Bachelor's of Arts in Computer Science Cornell University - Ithaca, NY December 2010 Additional Information Operating Systems: Linux (Redhat, Fedora, Ubuntu), Windows