Technology Instructor Technology Instructor Technology Instructor - INSEEC School of Communication San Francisco, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technology Instructor INSEEC School of Communication - San Francisco, CA October 2018 to Present Part-time instructor of two classes at INSEEC San Francisco, a French business school that gives business, design, and engineering students from various programs throughout France the opportunity to experience the startup world through a 12-week intensive program. I was responsible for teaching a course on HTML/CSS to students with no prior coding experience, with the end result being a personal website that showcased their time in the program. I also oversaw a course for more advanced coders who were free to work on a tech-based project of their choosing. Many chose to work with React, as well as Django, PostgreSQL, and others. Private Tutor/Educational Consultant Marin County, and the Peninsula - San Francisco, CA June 2017 to Present 11/2017 - Present  Full time private tutor and educational consultant for families in San Francisco, Marin County, and the Peninsula.  Currently work with students ranging from 6th grade to college aged on a variety of STEM related subjects, including biology, chemistry, calculus, and Python programming. Also work with students preparing for the ACT, SAT, and SAT  Subject Tests. In order to insure students from all backgrounds have access to my services, I work on a sliding scale and also volunteer my services. Freelance Signet Education - Cambridge, MA December 2015 to Present 2014-2015 / 2009 - Present  Private tutor at elite tutoring company based in Harvard Square with primary focus on test prep (ACT/SAT/SSAT), coding/computer science, and mathematics. Worked with students ranging in age from 4th grade to college juniors. Worked as Python tutor for MIT's OME. Tutored privately freelance for several years in test prep and various STEM fields such as programming, math, and chemistry, and worked with students from elementary school age through continued learning post college.  I also have experience in curriculum development and classroom management. Summer Academy Instructor Make School - San Francisco, CA June 2016 to September 2016 Instructor for Intro track of full-time Summer Academy program, which also offers iOS Apps and Games tracks as well as a Virtual Reality track. Responsible for leading a group of 6-10 students as they learn the fundamentals of programming in Apple's Swift language by answering questions they have regarding our tutorials, giving talks on various programming and Swift specific topics, and holding wrap-up sessions to reinforce daily learning. Coding and Engineering Teacher Belmont High School - Belmont, MA February 2016 to May 2016 Long-term maternity leave substitute for technology teacher. Responsible for instruction, guidance, grading, classroom management, and curriculum design for two sections of Honors Intro to Coding, which are taught using C and Arduino boards, and one section of Honors Engineering Design and Technology.  Private Tutor Developer/Team Lead JoMI - Boston, MA March 2015 to November 2015 Led development/tech team of development and data science interns for medical education technology startup. Functioned as interim CTO in weekly department head meetings and daily scrums. Initialized and oversaw conversion of existing  LAMP/Wordpress site to Python/Django based site with PostgreSQL. Intro to Python Lab Assistant MIT Dept. of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science - Cambridge, MA December 2013 to February 2014 Staffed office hours, responded to online forum questions, and graded assignments for MIT's Introduction to Python course, 6.149.  Often specifically sought by students for ability to answer questions and debug issues in code when other TA's were unable.  Relevant Skills, Technologies, and Coursework    Experience In: Python, Swift, Xcode, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, C, Django  Exposure To: Java, Git, AngularJS, PostgreSQL, CoffeeScript, jQuery, MySQL, Bootstrap  Coursework: Introduction to Algorithms, Introduction to EECS, Introduction to Software Engineering with Java, Programming with Python, Discrete Mathematics for Computer Science, Probability and Random Variables, Computational Problem Solving in Mathematica,  Genetics, Cell Biology, Principles of Molecular Biology, Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates, Organic Chemistry, Advanced English  Language and Grammar Education Math, Computer Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology - Cambridge, MA 2010 to 2016 Skills Python (5 years), Teaching (5 years), Curriculum Development (6 years), IOS (3 years), Mathematics (6 years), Customer Relations (5 years), Programming (4 years), SAT, Testing (6 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/codyfeldhaus