Software Engineering Intern Software Engineering Intern Software Engineering Intern - LitePoint San Jose, CA • Full Stack Developer with 3 years of experience in building multi-tiered web-applications looking for a full time role.  • Specializing primarily in Front-End JavaScript development. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Engineering Intern LitePoint - Sunnyvale, CA June 2015 to Present • Full Stack Developer for IQramp working on MEAN Stack.  • Developed Data Analysis Tool which is responsible for collecting, processing test data and visualizations/reports.  • Developed rich interactive graphics and data visualizations of large structured test data in browser-friendly formats.  • Designed and developed a SPA using AngularJS and node implementing Services, Controllers, custom Directives, angular watch,  ng-grid, client side routing using Route provider, HTML-5 web workers, promises and indexedDb for client side caching.  • Enhanced existing feature to automate the process of generating reports.  • Improved productivity of internal QA teams by approximately 20% with the new report generation feature.  • Implemented linear polynomial and logarithmic curve fitting for scatter graph.  • Developed a seamless automated workflow for packaging, minifying, cleaning and deploying of production code. School Project : Web Template Store San Jose State University, California - San Jose, CA 2016 to January 2016 Bootstrap, Angular-seed, HTML-5, PayPal Gateway  • Developed a responsive web application using angular-seed for selling html templates online Jan 2016  • Implemented payment gateway using PayPal. Technologies used: AngularJS, angular-seed, html5, bootstrap, bower, grunt. School Project : Crime Analysis San Jose State University, California - San Jose, CA October 2015 to December 2015 • Developed an interactive crime mapping app that analyzes and presents the large amount of available crime statistics in an interactive way. Users can contribute to the application, report incidents they see and update the app in realtime.  • Provided features like route planning, showing users crime incidents around their journey to a destination and allowing them to bypass these places by setting alternative routes using Google Maps. Implement Raft Consensus Algorithm for Leader Election and Log Replication San Jose State University, California - San Jose, CA February 2015 to April 2015 Distributed SnapChat Servers - Java, Netty, RAFT Feb 2015 - April 2015  • Developed a distributed and scalable architecture to enable communication within intra and intercluster in the network.  • Implement Raft Consensus Algorithm for Leader Election and Log Replication within the same cluster. School Project: Twitter analysis San Jose State University, California - San Jose, CA February 2015 to April 2015 Sentiment analysis system analyzing how the everyday tweets affect the people of the particular nation using Hadoop Map Reduce,  MySQL, Stanford Core NLP, Twitter Hose Bird Client, Twitter 4j and Twitter Text. School Project : E-commerce system San Jose State University, California - San Jose, CA September 2014 to December 2014 Express, Java, JSP-Servlets, MySql Sep 2014 - Dec 2014  • Built a web application that enables users to place/cancel orders and view catalog. The application is divided into three parts:  inventory/order management and catalog management.  • Developed user catalog using MEAN stack, order and inventory management using J2EE stack. AngularJS framework is used to implement Ajax calls and Client Side Routing. MongoDB is used to store product information.  • Features provided include: User login/registration, Place orders for items added in cart Cancel orders, Make payment, Order status  tracking and managing inventory items for the products. School project : Tag Me Home - Python San Jose State University, California - San Jose, CA September 2014 to December 2014 • Developed a web application which is a bed reservation system for homeless people and shelter administrator.  • Each homeless person will be provided with a RFID tag, and they can register/reserve a bed using it to avoid wait time. Software Developer Persistent Systems - Pune, Maharashtra October 2012 to June 2014 • Developed an end-to-end dashboard utility for monitoring virtual machines using Java-MySQL.  • Implemented Nagios monitoring for basic health checks as well as instance threshold, database connectivity.  •Developed POCs for web apps and participated in the complete lifecycle of visual applications, from development of mock ups and storyboards to the complete production-ready application.  •Experience developing Single Page Applications using REST and browser APIs. Education M.S. Software Engineering San Jose State University 2014 to 2016 B.E. in Computer Science Visvesvaraya Technological University - Belgaum, Karnataka 2008 to 2012 Skills Javascript (2 years), Java (1 year), AngularJS (1 year), NodeJS (Less than 1 year), Html5 (1 year), bootstrap (1 year) Links https://linkedin.com/in/paiashish https://github.com/ashishpai1 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web-Technologies: JavaScript, jQuery, HTML-5, CSS, DOJO, Bootstrap, Angular JS, ydn-db, JSON, XML, Highcharts,  Lo-dash, Ajax, JS-OO, Django  Languages: Core Java, Python, Shell Scripting.  Database: MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, MongoDB.  Tools: Eclipse, SVN, git, Tortoise svn, Astah UML, Grunt, Gulp, AWS EC2, Nagios, npm, Bower.