Test Grader and Assistant for Caclulas 3 and Calculus for Life and Management Sciences(Part time) Test Grader and Assistant for Caclulas 3 and Calculus for Life and Management Sciences(Part time) Quantitative Analyst and Risk Management Raleigh, NC • I am pursuing Financial Mathematics at NCSU.  • I have cleared CFA level 2 and have in-depth knowledge of financial markets, Investment analysis, Portfolio management, Financial reporting analysis, Valuing fixed income and equities.  • I have worked as a Business Intelligence developer in Accenture with expertise in SQL, Developing ETL’s, Cleaning and Manipulation data, Data analysis and building data models for reporting purposes, Building reports to make sense of data and help in business and Investment decisions.    Skills:  • Programming Languages: SQL, Python, R, SAS   • Quantitative skills: Risk Management, Derivatives, Compliance, Quantitative Research  • Business intelligence Tools: SQL Server, SSIS, SSRS  • Other Skills: Financial Modelling (Balance Sheet, Income Statement, Cash Flow Statement),corporate finance, Behavioral finance, Credit analysis, CECL.     NOTE: Currently I am seeking an internship opportunity for Summer 2019 in the field of Quantitative Analysis or Financial Analytics, Risk Management and Consulting. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Test Grader and Assistant for Caclulas 3 and Calculus for Life and Management Sciences(Part time) North Carolina State University - Raleigh, NC September 2018 to Present Project:Current Expectation of Credit Loss (CECL) Model ( Python, R ,Latex) North Carolina State University - Raleigh, NC September 2018 to Present CECL model requires banks and other financial institutions to calculate risk and loss for loans or financial assets using data from historical operations, current conditions, and reasonable forecasts. Using Python programming language to develop the calculation of loss allowances, methodologies of loss calculation, and risk modeling. Project:Valuation of Futures and using it for hedging the portfolio ( Python,Excel) North Carolina State University - Raleigh, NC September 2018 to Present Created pricing model for Currency futures, Index Futures, Interest rate futures. Finding arbitrage opportunities. Setting a hedging goal for the portfolio of securities . Hedged the securities in the portfolio using futures. Project:CFA Global Research Challenge(Advanced Excel) CFA Institute Research Challenge - Raleigh, NC September 2018 to Present CFA Global Research Challenge is an annual competition with over 140 CFA member societies, 3,500 member volunteers, and more than 5,000 students from over 1,000 universities taking part for one final winner.  I am one of the 5 member team representing NC State University in this challenge. I and my team are required to research and analyze an assigned publicly traded company and then write a research report on it with a buy, sell, or hold recommendation. We would then be presenting our research to the panel of highly qualified professionals from financial institutions. For the regional level competition, we have been assigned a Charlotte-based company called "Lending Tree." We are currently doing our research on it. Conducting Quantitative and Qualitative analysis, Industry and Competitive positioning, Choosing valuation models such as DCF and Multiples approach model, Finding the risks in investment. (Application Development Analyst) Role: Business Intelligence Developer Financial services Accenture - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2014 to July 2018 • Extracted, Cleaned and analyzed data of finance and insurance accounts of an Insurance firm such as Cash holdings, A/P, Fixed Assets, Premium, Policies, Claims and Investments   • Developed ETL (Extract, Transform and Load) to translate and structure business and raw data into models such as relational data model which makes reporting and visualization easy.  • Developed SQL Procedures, Functions to manipulate data.  • Performed SQL and BI performance management and tuning, Created Automated jobs for report generation.  • Developed business reports on top of relational model to help make decisions and make sense of data.  • Reports are used for ALM, Cash Management and make business and investment decisions.  Education Master of Science in (MS), Financial Mathematics North Carolina State University - Raleigh, NC December 2019 Bachelors of Engineering in Electronics & Telecommunications University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2014 Skills SQL (3 years), Python (Less than 1 year), SAS (Less than 1 year), R Programming (Less than 1 year), Risk Management (Less than 1 year), Credit Analysis (Less than 1 year), CECL (Less than 1 year), Options and Derivatives (1 year), C++ (1 year), Financial Analysis (Less than 1 year), Investment Analysis and Portfolio Managaement (Less than 1 year), Fixed Income and Equity Valuation (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/deepakpunjabincsu Certifications/Licenses CFA Level 2 Cleared June 2017 to Present In Depth study on-    1. Fixed Income  2. Portfolio Management  3. Derivatives  4. Equity  5. Financial Analysis and Reporting  6. Ethical Conduct  7. Economics  8. Alternative Investments   9. Corporate Finance  10. Quantitative Analysis 70-461: Querying Microsoft SQL Server 2012 June 2016 to Present 1)Create Database objects  2)Modify Data   3)Work with Data  4)Trouble shoot and Optimize. 70-463:Implementing a Data Warehouse with Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2014 August 2015 to Present 1)Design and implement Data Warehouse  2)Extract and transform data.  3)Load Data  4)Configure and Deploy SSIS Solutions  5)Build Data quality solutions National Stock Exchange of India's level 1 certified professional December 2016 to Present Specializing in:  1)Financial Markets  2)Investment analysis and Portfolio management  3)Fundamental Analysis