Software Engineer in Test Intern Software Engineer in Test Intern Business Analyst/Data Analyst/Software Engineer/Test Austin, TX Work Experience Software Engineer in Test Intern UPMC Technology Development Center - Pittsburgh, PA May 2013 to August 2013 • Daily programming in Ruby with Cucumber framework to create automated functional tests.  • Worked with data transformation team building a backend document information system with components including MongoDB repository, identity service with Redis, search cloud and user interface.  • Contributed to the generation of user stories, testing plans and defect reviews.  • Developed and delivered internal presentations. Lipoprotein Subclass Measurements by an Updated NMR Technique in the Prediction of Coronary Artery Disease in Type 1 Diabetes University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA January 2013 to August 2013 • Manipulated data and conducted statistical analysis in SAS.  • Utilized Excel macros and formulas to generate tables and reports.  • Presented and defensed the research results. Graduate Assistant of Computer System Administration Math & Computer Science Department, Duquesne University - Pittsburgh, PA August 2011 to April 2013 • Managed 55 Linux and Windows workstations and 6 servers;   • Maintained and updated departmental software and websites;   • Created and maintained departmental accounts. Database Design Computer Consulting Company Nfrastruct - Pittsburgh, PA November 2012 to December 2012 • Designed the Logical/Physical database in Visio to support the business process;  • Implemented the database in MS SQL Server;  • Created queries and reports with real data. Acted as team member. Data Mining of a Cardiology Research Duquesne University - Pittsburgh, PA November 2012 to December 2012 • Cleaned the data and took a random sample of 60% for training group and 40% for testing group.  • Performed a multiple logistic regression in JMP and recoded variables based on recursive partition results.  • Presented the analysis in class. Acted as part of team. Java Developer, Project Manager Allegheny General Hospital - Pittsburgh, PA January 2012 to April 2012 • Developed a Java implementation of Allegheny General Hospital Internal Medicine Residency Scheduler.  • Accepted by Midwestern American College of Physicians meeting.  • Acted as project manager and scheduler engine team member. Python Developer Indiana University of Bloomington - Bloomington, IN November 2009 to December 2009 Developed a game Deep Sea Adventure in Python. A player would move up, down, left and right on the screen to get the shells at the bottom of the sea while avoiding octopuses and sharks. Individual project. Product Engineer Xiamen Overseas Chinese Electronic Co., Ltd - Xiamen, CN August 2006 to August 2008 Transformed client requests into technical requirements; Managed project implementation in the complete product life cycle; Worked with clients, suppliers and engineers; Evaluated and reported new techniques in performances, costs and market trends. Education Master of Science in Computational Mathematics Duquesne University - Pittsburgh, PA August 2011 to August 2013 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronic Science and Technology Huaqiao University - Quanzhou, China 2002 to 2006 Skills Software lifecycle management, Data manipulation/analysis, Statistics, Analytics, Java, Python, Ruby, SQL, RDBMS, Visio, Excel, SAS, R, SAP, GIT, Agile, Rally, Linux/OSX/Windows