Software Engineer Intern Software Engineer Intern Graduate Student at University of Southern California (MS in CS), looking for internship opportunities for Summer'16 Los Angeles, CA Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Engineer Intern Citrix Systems Inc. - Santa Barbara, CA May 2016 to Present • Building a cross platform application to impart the RTC SDK functionality  • Working on the API development using RTC in SaaS Team. Software Development Engineer Cisco Systems - Bangalore, Karnataka August 2014 to July 2015 • One of the 5 members who provided wrapper for SDN based product, to promote sale of $250 million worth devices. Tags: SDN, Rapid Prototyping  • Created a system to perform data store optimization in NXOS. Tags: C, Python  • Designed a framework to XMLize outputs of router commands. Tags: XML, Python  • Worked with the transports team in maintaining and enhancing L4 code of OSI stack. Tags: TCP, UDP Software Development Engineer Intern Cisco Systems - Bangalore, Karnataka February 2014 to July 2014 • Built a Virtual router which could scale to 50 million sessions.  Tags: Python, MySQL, GoogleProtoBuf  • Built a log analytics framework for the various device logs on a live system  Tags: Spark, Mongo DB Contract Developer, As a part of Google Summer of Code program Parrot.org June 2012 to September 2012 Contributed to Parrot Organization by providing LAPACK bindings for Parrot-Linear-Algebra, a Linear Algebra library of Parrot.   Tags: PLA, LAPACK  https://goo.gl/SBLgO iLab – Research Assistant – Saliency Project (In Progression) OpenCV, C++ ,Vision 2012 to June 2012 Working on computational neuroscience and saliency as a part of a research project under Prof. Laurent Itti at iLab. Smart Personal Assistant (SPA) Java, JS, Android, AI Techniques, Data Analytics 2012 to 2012 SPA is an Artificial Intelligence bot which assists users in scheduling daily routine and setting alarms based on user sleep pattern. Improving the 0 A.D. AI Bot JavaScript, C++/STL Responsibilities  Helped in enhancing the crisis situation decision making of an Aegis AI bot by sampling the bots performance metric in the game. PyOMP (OpenMP like features for python) Python, Decorators, Multiprocessing, OpenMP Responsibilities  Used Decorators in python to provide OpenMP binging for python. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Southern California - Los Angeles, CA 2015 to 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science P. E. S. Institute of Technology - Bangalore, Karnataka 2010 to 2014 Skills C++ (3 years), Python (2 years), Javascript (2 years), C (4 years), HTML (2 years), Spark (2 years), Android (3 years), Data Mining with Weka (2 years), Unix (2 years), Java (3 years), Node.js (2 years), Ruby (Less than 1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year), Open CV (Less than 1 year), MongoDB (1 year), MySQL (1 year), Git (2 years), OpenMP (1 year), NGINX (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jashwanth http://www.jashwanth.in Additional Information Accomplishments  • Among the 1212 students from 69 countries who were accepted for Google Summer of Code 2012.  • Head of Ayana-13 a Hackathon in PESIT which had 74 hack submissions.  • Active member of PES OpenSource Community and have also participated in many Hackathons.  • Part of the core organizing team for the Design Innovation Workshop conducted by MIT media lab and also INK Talks which was organized during the workshop.  • Selected for Intel Youth Entrepreneurship workshop in 2012.