Junior Developer Junior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Developer Provo, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior Developer RanLife Real Estate - Sandy, UT March 2015 to Present Responsibilities  At RanLife, I have been working under the direction of our senior developer to help shoulder the development load that is coming from a fast-growing company. So far, I have been working in PHP and CodeIgnitor to implement new features into RanLife's custom CRM. Much of what I have done involves setting up REST calls. Additionally, I have also worked extensively with JavaScript building a custom chat application. Mainly due to the fact that RanLife is a PHP shop, the backend of this application is built in PHP, but the front-end is almost entirely JavaScript/JQuery.     Additional responsibilities that I have include: assisting with sys-admin responsibilities on our Linux and Ubuntu servers, occasionally writing cron-job scripts to handle automated emails, form mapping, and collaborating with our front-end developer on form design.    Accomplishments  The largest impact that I have had so far in my position is getting a working version of our chat application ready for deployment. It is nearly finished and will be implemented to over half of the company's employees by the end of the month. Additionally, I have been able to influence the direction that our dev team is going by helping push more modern development techniques and best practices. As a result of my time with RanLife, our dev team will have actually begun using some type of VCS (most likely Git), our development time is decreasing as we move to more modern frameworks, and my boss no longer considers Python to be a gimmicky language for people who don't know how to code!    Skills Used  PHP  JavaScript  JQuery  CSS  HTML  RESTful Design  CodeIgnitor  Cron  MySQL  HeidiSQL    Additionally, I was not familiar with PHP prior to being hired at RanLife. I have had to learn how to work with PHP quickly enough to begin contributing in an effective manner. This additional exposure to a new language and other techniques has greatly solidified many general concepts of coding in my mind. Lead Developer Sirviso, LLC - Provo, UT December 2015 to March 2016 Provo, UT | sirviso.com    • Database Refactoring: I refactored our PostgreSQL database and implemented a fully redesigned user and account creation process. Part of this process included working with the Stripe API to create a Stripe customer and save the user's credit card information so as to charge the client at a later time.  • Django-Mako-Plus: The framework we used was largely a Django framework with additional customized Mako functionality.  • Team Lead: I managed our small team of developers and implemented sprints based on our product backlog and what issues need to be addressed immediately. Our team consisted of young developers and it was my responsibility to ensure that the workload and tasks assigned matched the skills of those on our team. It was my job to complete tasks deemed to be too complicated for our other developers. Working on a small team at a startup meant that I needed to be able to cover everything from the database to the user's front-end experience. Python and Django Web Development Student Coding Campus - Provo, UT 2015 to 2015 • Django States: A web application that I built to demonstrate my understanding of basic Django framework concepts. Skills demonstrated include setting up MySQL, using the Django admin tools, writing functional-based views, utilizing a Bootstrap template, writing scripts to scrape for images, writing scripts to import data from .csv  files, coding with html and css, and deploying the app using an Ubuntu server (http://firstdjango.justinhammer.xyz/state_list/ - check it out!) The application includes information about the 50 states of the US.  • Music App: Further demonstration of my Django kung-fu. Additional skills represented include social media API integration with login views, populating a database using data gathered via an API, model-based views including model forms, and a much more detailed git commit history. This application contains information about the music available on freemusicarchive.org.  • MovieDB: A project to become familiar with using PostgreSQL and Cassandra, as well as learning about the bene- fits to using either RDBMS or NoSQL.  • Board: A simple message board project. CRUD forms are a central component to this application. Additionally, I learned a lot about Django's base user model and how to customize it for added functionality. Marketing Internship Caleb Chapman Music - American Fork, UT 2014 to 2014 • Assistant Recruiting Project Manager: Assisted with the effort to grow the business via outreach to local musicians and musical educators.  • Assistant Events Planning: Initiated, coordinated, advertised, and assisted in the execution of a recruitment open house involving Grammy award winning artist Jeff Coffin, local artists, and educators.  • Facilities Management: Optimized available space for student and teacher use. Jazz Librarian ? Brigham Young University Music Library ? - Provo, UT 2011 to 2013 • Digital inventory management using a customized Microsoft Access database.  • Physical inventory management including filing, cleaning, repairing, and distribution of music.  • Faculty and student assistance and support.  • Completion of beginning and ending semester projects that required high attention to detail, the ability to appro- priately prioritize workflow, and work effectively with a small team. Education BA in Commercial Music Brigham Young University - Provo, UT 2011 to 2014 High School Diploma Orem High School - Orem, UT 2005 to 2008 Skills Python, Django, HTML, CSS, PostgresSQL, MySQL, Javascript, Django REST Framework, Databases, Git, Agile Development, Management, Team Leadership, JQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, Teaching, Public Speaking, Linux, Ubuntu, PHP, CodeIgnitor Links http://linkedin.com/in/justinhammer15 http://github.com/justinhammer Additional Information Skills  • Django, Python, PHP, CodeIgnitor, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS, MySQL, PostgreSQL Django REST Framework, GitHub, Stripe API, Database Refactoring, Linux, Ubuntu  • Agile Methodologies including experience as Scrum Master  • Familiarity with Cassandra  • Teaching  - A large part of my music background has consisted of teaching both individuals and large groups of people. I understand how to take complex concepts and break them down into simpler parts so that someone of any background can understand them. As a teacher, I am well equipped to handle the social dynamics of a wide range of group settings. Additionally, I feel comfortable speaking in front of people, and I know how to prepare for presentations and meetings.  • Ability to perform consistently at a professional level under high pressure and demanding time constraints  • Always seeking additional educational opportunities