Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Dutch Bank Coral Gables, FL ? Experienced professional with over 5 years of technical exposure in diverse technologies like Python, Django, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Linux and AWS.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, CSS, HTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Hands-on experience in SOAP and RESTful web services.  ? Hands-on experience in relational database connections like DB-API connection management and query based access to databases like PostgreSQL and MySQL in Python.  ? Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Java Script, JQuery.  ? Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  ? Familiar with Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  ? Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  ? Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Experienced in working on Application Servers like like Apache http server, Gunicorn and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm and Visual Studio Code  ? Familiar with deployment on Heroku.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Well-versed in ticketing system such as Altassian JIRA.  ? Effectively involved in handling releases, managing merges and deployments.  ? Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  ? Highly efficient in working in fast paced environment and multiple issues at a time.  ? Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  ? Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Work Experience Python Developer Dutch Bank - Coral Gables, FL July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Made use of advanced python packages like NumPy, Scipy for various sophisticated numerical and scientific calculations.  ? Utilized Python specific tools including Django, Django Rest Framework, Django, SQLAlchemy, Pandas, Numpy.  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, XML, JQuery, DOM, JSON, Numpy, Pandas, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Rest, SVN, MY SQL, Windows and LINUX. Python Developer Cotiviti Healthcare - Atlanta, GA September 2016 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Developed and designed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to interact with company's website.  ? Wrote Python code and actively participated in the procedure to automate processes.  ? Build and test functionality within a production pipeline.  ? Implemented Python code to fix bugs and provides upgrades to existing functionality.  ? Provided fault isolation and root cause analysis for technical problems.  ? Highly efficient in handling multi-tasking issues in a fast paced environment.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  ? Worked on several python packages like Matpoltlib, Pillow, Numpy, SQL Alchemy, and sockets.  ? Used Pandas datamining library for statistics Analysis & NumPy for Numerical analysis.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  ? Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.Environment: Python, Django, PYQt, Python SDK, AWS, Flash, Numpy, Pandas, PyQuery, DOM, Bootstrap, XML, HTML5, JavaScript, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Git Hub, MySQL, LINUX. Python Developer Velox Insurance - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, JSON and jQuery.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec.  ? Involved in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  ? Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jira, Git, CRUD, Pyramid, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Web Services (Soap, Restful), PyUnit. Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON