Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - eVarient Waynesboro, VA • 7+ Years of professional experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various client-server applications in Python.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Mongodb, and JQuery.  • Excellent knowledge on Python Collections and Multi-Threading.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments  • Good Knowledge in extracting data from data storages like elastic search.  • Good experience of Web Services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Good at using libraries for technical development like PySpark, BeautifulSoup, Pandas dataframe, and MySQL for database connectivity to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle. Solid understanding of MVT design patterns.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Template architecture using Django web application frameworks.  • Experience with Version Control, ideally GIT.  • Good experience in using different kind of data bases like MySQL.  • Well versed in browser abstracting JavaScript libraries like jQuery, Angular.js, etc.  • Expertise in understanding complex codes and extending their functionality.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, JavaScript, XML, JQuery and AJAX.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Knowledge of the software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer eVarient - Waynesboro, VA June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Extensively used Django micro service framework for simple request and response.  • Created Social Media services in order to retrieve the data using the appropriate urls.  • Extracted the data from data storage like elastic search.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Involved in writing unit test cases for the functionalities using Nose Test.  • Administration of Continuous Integration tool in Jenkins. Create and configure new jobs for each and every application in Jenkins.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile (Kanban Board).  • Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  • Identify, troubleshoot and resolve issues related to build and deploy process.  • Inform through mail the compilation errors to the responsible team with error logs using JIRA.  • Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL,JIRA, PySpark, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. Python Developer PHH Mortgage - Mount Laurel, NJ December 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Administration of Continuous Integration tool in Jenkins.  • Implementing customer data collection with PySpark analytics.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  • Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  • Involved in presenting demos to the clients and also reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager.  • Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.7, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, MySQL, PySpark, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. Python Developer FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS - Dallas, TX July 2015 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Involved in writing unit test cases and automated test cases using Selenium web driver.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implementing customer data collection with PySpark analytics.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS,UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, Reports, JavaScript, PySpark,, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC, Git. Python Developer Limited Brands - Chicago, IL July 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python and Django for XML, JSON processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5. Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping    Environment: Python 2.7, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, SVN, Linux, PyCharm. Python Developer Hans Infotech - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks and used Pythonand Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds and supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  • Used the continuous integration (CI/CD) tool Jenkins for automating the build processes.  • Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Used REST and SOAPUI for testing web service for server-side changes.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the version Control.  • Involved in development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML and JavaScript.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.    Environment: Python, DJango, Git, Jenkins, HTML, CSS, Rest, Soap, MySQL, SQL, PyQt, PyUnit Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, PYTHON, MYSQL