Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Sun Life Financials Boston, MA • Around 7 years of experience in IT, which comprise of Web/Application Developer and coding analytical Programing using Python, Django.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Extensively used SQL, Numpy, Pandas, and Spark for Data Analysis and Model building.  • Cognitive about designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault-tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Provide highly available and durable data by using S3 data store, versioning and life cycle policy.  • Built the web application by using Django, Flask, Jinja, Python, WSGI, REDIS, PostgreSQL and DyanamoDB.  • Thorough understanding of providing specifications using Waterfall and Agile Software methodology to modeling systems and business processes.  • Experience for debugging the project monitored on JIRA(Agile)  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced with UNIX/Linux environments  • Experienced with python PyPi packages and used those packages at run time by pulling it from Artifactory  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, CSS, HTML, Bottle, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with AWS (Amazon Web services).  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with REST and SOAP Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MongoDB, MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest and Unit test  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Sun Life Financials - Boston, MA July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Extensively used Django micro service framework for simple request and response.  • Created Social Media services in order to retrieve the data using the appropriate curls.  • Extracted the data from data storage like elastic search.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Involved in writing unit test cases for the functionalities using Nose Test.  • Administration of Continuous Integration tool in Jenkins. Create and configure new jobs for each and every application in Jenkins.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the J Query UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile (Kanban Board).  • Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  • Identify, troubleshoot and resolve issues related to build and deploy process.  • • Inform through mail the compilation errors to the responsible team with error logs using JIRA.  • • Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  • • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, JIRA, PySpark, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. Python Developer OpenArc - Pittsburgh, PA March 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software.  • Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application. Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, J Query and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Used Salt Stack to configure and manage the infrastructure.  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all of the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  • Automated Regular AWS tasks like snapshots creation using Python scripts.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Managed Virtual servers (Ubuntu, Linux and Windows) on AWS EC2 using Open-Source Chef server.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) & configuration management using Chef  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application  • Developed and Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug,  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.    Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, AWS, HTML, CSS, NoSQL, JavaScript, J Query, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services. Python Developer Samsonite - Mansfield, MA November 2015 to February 2017 Description: Samsonite is the worldwide leader in superior travel bags, luggage, and accessories combining notable style with the latest design technology and the utmost attention to quality and durability. We are principally engaged in the design, manufacturing, sourcing, and distribution of luggage, business and computer bags, outdoor, casual bags, travel accessories and slim protective cases for personal electronic devices.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the server module and resolved issues and responsible for its enhancements.  • Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Web pack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for the database.  • Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries.  • Load balancing of ETL processes, database performance tuning ETL processing tools.  • Loaded the data from Teradata to HDFS using Teradata Hadoop connectors.  • Hands on experience in Amazon Web Services AWS provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Red shift, Glacier, Bamboo, ELB (Load Balancers), RDS, SNS, SWF and EBS etc and Azure.  • Migrating a production infrastructure into an Amazon Web Services utilizing AWS Cloud Formation, Code Deploy, EBS and Ops Works.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection and open stack to provision new machines for clients.  • Defined different Django API profiling techniques for faster rendering information.  • Used Ansible, Vagrant, and Docker for managing the application environments.  • Developed Python scripts for testing the car functioning on different services.  • Worked with Splunk for testing the performance and debugging server level problems.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Working close together with QA and Operations teams to understand, design, and develop and end-to-end data flow requirements.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events.  • Developed Restful Microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on Django and RabbitMQ queues.  • Imported data using Sqoop to load data from MySQL to HDFS on regular basis.  • Used Circle CI for continuous integration and delivery platform over GIT.  • Used Django Migrations for designing and expanding of the database.  • Automated most of the daily task using python scripting.  • Involved in the CI/CD pipeline management for managing the weekly releases.  • Worked on Jira for managing the tasks and improving the individual performance.  • Making recommendations to the team in terms of appropriate testing techniques, shared testing tasks.    Environment: Python 2.7,AWS,Devops, Django, Django Rest, Flask, React, Redux, Circle CI, Vagrant, Splunk, New Relic Server, GitHub, Ansible, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, Amazon Web Service (AWS), S3, EC2, EBS, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Code, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. Python Developer Velox Insurance - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, JSON and jQuery.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Worked in development of applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jira, Git, CRUD, Pyramid, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Web Services (Soap, Restful), PyUnit. Python Developer Navayuga Infotech - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Maintained and improved the security level of data.  • Responsible for security standard implementation and data protection.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Developed multi-page applications from beginning to end.  • Collaborate in system and network security installation, configuration, and review.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Contributed to development of security policies and processes.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Did Content Management through front end, live search and normal search features.  • Profiled Python code for optimization and memory management.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django, GitHub. Education Bachelor's Skills Django (7 years), Javascript (6 years), Linux (7 years), Mysql (5 years), Python (7 years), Jquery, Android Additional Information Technical skills:  Languages • Python, C++, C, SQL, Java and PHP  Web Development • HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML JSON  Frameworks  • Django, Flask, CherryPy, Pyramid, NodeJS, Angular JS, JSP, Numpy,  • Matplotlib, Servlets    Servers • Apache Tomcat, Apache HTTP, JBOSS  Databases • PostgreSQL, MySQL, Cassandra, Redis, MongoDB, SQL Server  Big Data Technologies • Hadoop, MapReduce and Spark  Methodologies • Agile (Scrum), Waterfall  Tools  • Git, SVN, Mercurial, Memcached, Jira, SSIS, Data Migrator, Visual  • studio    IDE • Notepad++, Eclipse, IDLE, PyCharm, Pyscripter  OS • Windows, Linux, Unix