Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Capitalone Richmond, VA ? Over 7+ years of experience as an Application developer, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, HTML, DHTML, C#, Oracle PL/SQL and Postgres.  ? Thorough understanding of providing specifications using Waterfall and Agile Software methodology to modeling systems and business processes.  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and Kanban methodologies  ? Extensively used SQL, Numpy, Pandas, and Spark for Data Analysis and Model building.  ? Cognitive about designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault-tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Provide Highly available and durable data by using S3 data store, versioning and life cycle policy.  ? Experience for debugging the project monitored on JIRA(Agile)  ? Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and MAMP (Mac, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Experienced with UNIX/Linux environments  ? Experienced with python PyPi packages and used those packages at run time by pulling it from Artifactory  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, and Flask, Jinja.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with AWS (Amazon Web services).  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Experienced in developing REST and SOAP Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  ? Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  ? Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MongoDB, MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest and Unittest  ? Experience with Spark Streaming, Spark SQL  ? Excellent communication, Teamwork, interpersonal and presentation skills, fast learner and organized self-starter. Work Experience Python Developer Capitalone - Richmond, VA July 2018 to Present Description:. Capital One Financial Corporation is a bank holding company specializing in credit cards, auto loans, banking and savings accounts. Capital One is ranked 10th on the list of largest banks in the United States by assets. Online Brokerage provides users with the tools to track and manage their portfolios online 24/7. To integrate diverse trading work flows for fixed income business and provide a consolidated trading application interface to business users    Responsibilities:  ? Worked with a team of developers on Python applications for D4 CARD management.  ? Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  ? Working on CLIPS (Credit Line Increase Program)  ? Worked on Databricks for data analysis purposes  ? Read the Parquet and CSV files from S3 after applying the business logic and upload the output back to S3 using Pandas and PySpark  ? Analyzed The SQL scripts and design the solution to implement using PySpark.  ? Wrote shell scripts for setting up Spark configuration for reading files from S3 at run time.  ? Worked on PySpark and Pandas data frames, and used those data frames for analysis, extraction, and manipulation of data  ? Wrote python PyPi packages and used those packages at run time by pulling it from artifactory  ? Working knowledge of Amazon's Elastic Cloud Compute(EC2) infrastructure for computational tasks and Simple Storage Service (S3) as Storage mechanism.  ? Working on s3 buckets to sorting the data and by using the SecurityTokenScripts(STS).  ? Wrote the unit test cases for the modules and integrating the test for models  ? Used PyLint to maintain the code quality.  ? Integrating the test cases using the Jenkins for continuous Integration(CI) and continuous deployment(CD).  ? Used Docker container for end to end testing locally.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  ? Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit issues.  ? This project also included the documentation and testing of the new sql code to ensure 100% accurate data compared to the existing reports.  Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, AWS, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, Sublime Text, Atom, PyCharm, Jira, GIT, pybuilder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services, HTML5/CSS, XML, JSON, Ajax Python Developer Flagstar Bank - Troy, MI March 2016 to June 2018 Description: Flagstar's Loan Origination System (LOS) is a web application for brokers and borrowers to enter the origination details of a mortgage loan in a standard 1003 format. After the loan is originated, it goes through several phases of the loan life cycle i.e. Processing, Underwriting, Closing, Funding and Post-Closing. After the initial origination, only the internal users will have access to the rest of the application. This is a Python based web application built primarily using Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JPA, jQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  Responsibilities:  ? The system is a full micro services architecture written in Python utilizing distributed message passing via Kafka with JSON as data exchange formats.  ? Created 6 micro services that has the capability to transfer the input files to machine readable format and pass through respective payment channels.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and REST API calls.  ? Did full-page caching well using Varnish and could handle massive traffic without breaking a sweat.  ? Experienced in taking advantage of Nginx in combination with Apache by using it as a reverse proxy.  ? Supported development of Web portals, completed Database Modelling in PostgreSQL, front end support in HTML/CSS, JQuery.  ? Debugging the application and following messages in log files, to figure out the error if existing.  ? Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  ? Involved in analyzing the problems using transaction breakdown, network monitoring and resource monitoring to find the performance bottleneck.  ? Maintained and monitored frameworks like Django, flask  ? Developed monitoring application which captures the error related data and store it in database.  ? Involved in scrubbing project, which updates the existing data with hashed values.  ? Reverse engineer and re-implement legacy back-end software into Python with minimal downtime.  ? Work closely with project leads to learn about the Azure services, environment deployment, and integration with tooling.  ? Used GitHub as a version control.  ? Worked on UNIX environment.  ? Optimized system performance and managed the API lifecycle  ? Performed unit testing.  ? Worked closely with leads in implementation exposure on service based, SOA, RESTful technologies.  ? Strong experience in developing Microservices using Drop wizard, Spring Boot, Lagom.  ? Work experience with Java Frameworks like Spring, Hibernate.  Environment: Python, Drop wizard, Spring Boot, Lagom, Kafka, JSON, GitHub, LINUX, Django, Flask, Varnish, Nginx SOA, Teradata, REST,CI CD. Python Developer Pearl Insurance - Peoria Heights, IL December 2014 to February 2016 Description: Pearl Insurance Association is a federation of health insurance organizations and companies, providing health, Dental, Vision insurance in the United States. The project is to build an interaction between Front-end user friendly customer UI and back-end frequent data analysis to keep track of user responses, customer Feedback and allowances and generate various kinds of reports.  Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed user interface using CSS, PHP, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery,CI CD,Data Center.  ? Used Ansible to configure and manage the infrastructure.  ? Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  ? Designed and developed Use-Cases, Classes and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Design techniques.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Involved in developing the REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  ? Worked on front end frameworks like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  ? Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.  ? Automation (Ansible) and Deploying on AWS environment.  ? Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in Python  ? Collaborated with internal teams and external teams to solve the issues and giving feedback.  ? Documented the problems and progress of project most accurately.  ? Worked together with team during testing of data warehouses.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MySQL, REST Web Services, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, JIRA, GIT, AWS Python developer CMC - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to November 2014 Description: CMC Limited is an information technology services, consulting and software company. Responsible for Business Development, Solution Design, and Managing Service partners, Lead Generation, Proposal Development, and Develop BOM & SOW on Site Meeting, BOM, Managing POCs, and Training Delivery. Market Intelligence, Customer Acquisition, developing new products and solutions, Development using Python/Django, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, Database modelling using PostgreSQL.  Responsibilities:  ? Created a portable fully automated test tool, allowing 24/7 integration support for two development sites around the world and decreasing code turnaround time from 4 hours to 1 hour  ? Automated the daily and weekly build process to allow us to build daily builds twice a day for faster turnaround time for submitted code changes  ? Automated the code release process, bring the total time for code releases from 8 hours to 1 hour  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Implemented a review process in integration automation using Review Board and Gerrit that eliminated the need for a 5 hour per week daily approval meeting  ? Developed a web tool that monitors and drives the automated continuous integration system allowing release managers to track changes  ? Played a key role in a department wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community  ? Developed a Coverity mail script that extracts code defects data per component for a daily report to drive reducing defects in the code base.  ? Created modern, REST APIs from existing information assets.  ? Manage a technician that oversees automation and carries out daily tasks.  ? Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  Environment: Python, Kafka, JSON, GitHub, LINUX. Education Bachelor's