Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Orion Systems Integrators Inc California City, CA • Having 9+ Years of Experience as web/application developer software development and design using python, Django, Java, Webapp2, Angular.js, HTML/CSS, JavaScript and jQuery • Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django, and HTML. Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), strong experience in data engineering, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, Spyder and Visual Studio.  • Strong expertise in development of web-based applications using Python, Flask, Dojo, XML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and jQuery, J2EE.  • Experienced with Python programming and Python libraries for data science included in the Anaconda distribution including NumPy, Pandas. python packages like, SciPy, tables etc.  • Developed a novel approach detecting vowels (nucleus of loudness) called VLD in a recorded speech utterance using above features.  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  • Created a python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  • Used Anisole and Anisole Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and Testing.  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Working experience in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Creating Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom Frigate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once).  • Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Have Experience in List Comprehensions and Python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  • Experience in using CI tools Hudson, Build Forge, and Jenkins for automated builds.  • Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  • Experience in Kubernets that provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer Orion Systems Integrators Inc - Woodcliff Lake, NJ August 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Analyzed the departmental sales data over the years and developed predictive model to forecast the sales.  • Developed a strong understanding of Balance sheet, Daily Income sheet and performed financial analysis of profit.  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Experience in creating ad hoc reports by using MS Excel and report builder in SSRS 2008.  • Created SSIS packages by using different data transformations like derived column, lookup, confidential split, merge join, sort and execute SQL task to load data into database.  • Reported monthly projected inventory forecasts to managers along with any performance issues.  • Crafted custom reports for management that outlined the company's business process was strong and weak • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and demoralization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Anisole Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Used Flask framework for application development.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Agular's.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python 3.6/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, AWS, API Gateway, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, Cloud Watch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence.. Senior Python Developer Matlen Silver - New York, NY December 2015 to July 2018 Roles & Responsibilities: • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration(CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to automate many day-to-day tasks.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from Dynamo DB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Work lets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Tested and debugged the product in controlled and real situations.  • Deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins    Environment: Python 3.5/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, AWS, API Gateway, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, Cloud Watch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. Python Developer Anexinet Inc - King of Prussia, PA September 2012 to November 2015 Roles & Responsibilities: • Actively involved in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications, which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Involved in develop the REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  • Built an Interface between Django and Salesforce and Django with RESTAPI.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the Application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented admin sites to manage database information with Flask Admin, MySQL and SQLite.  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.    Environment: Python 2.7 and 3.0, Django 1.4, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, MYSQL, Cassandra, JIRA. Python Developer Halvik - Washington, DC January 2010 to August 2012 Roles & Responsibilities: • Designed front end using HTML, Bootstrap, and CSS.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MongoDB and Linux.  • Used Python libraries like Selenium, Numpy and SQLAlchemy.  • Worked on several Python libraries like Numpy, Pandas and Matplotlib.  • Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process by extending Django user model.  • Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and React that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux. Created Several XML Schemas and Developed Stored PL/SQL Procedures and Packages to automatically create and drop table indexes.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Used Numpy, Matplotlib, and Pandas to generate products for major enterprises.  • Created a Python based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML and CSS.  • Wrote & executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector & MySQL dB package.  • Developed and designed automation script using Python and Bash.  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django    Environment: Python, MySQL, Hive, JSON, RESTful, Pandas, Machine Learning, Version One, Linux, Shell Scripting, IBM Natuzzi, JavaScript, AngularJS, Toad Data Point (SQL),Putty (Linux). Education Bachelor's