Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Matlen Silver Roswell, GA • Over 8+ years of IT experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python,DJango, Java and Various JavaScript frameworks (Angular JS, Angular2, Angular4, TypeScript, Node JS, NPM, React JS, Redux, BackBone Js, Knockout JS, D3.JS, Vue.JS, JQuery, Ember JS and Ext JS).  • Expertise in creating Scrum stories, Agile Methodologies, Sprints experience in Python based environment, along with data analytics, Excel data extracts and data wrangling.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes Requirements Specification, Design documents, Integration, Documentation and writing Test cases using various software engineering process ranging from Waterfall to Agile methodology.  • Experience with PythonLibraries/Packages such as HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Py Query, Numpy, Scipy, Pickle, PyQT, PySide, wxPython, PyTables, DataFrames, SQLAlchemy, Twisted, Pygame, pyGtk, Pandas and Matplotlib.  • Experienced in using Integrated Development Environment (IDEs) inPyDev, PyScripter, Pycharm, Spider, Python IDLE, Brackets, Eclipse, JBuilder, Jdeveloper, Eric, Komodo Edit, Komodo IDE, Cloud9 IDE, DrPythonandNetBeans for debugging and also worked with SublimeText2, EditPlus, Notepad++, VimEditors for coding.  • Experience using python libraries for machine learning like pandas, numpy, matplotlib, sklearn, scipy to Loading the dataset, summarizing the dataset, visualizing the dataset, evaluating some algorithms and making some predictions  • Good experience in working with Python,DJango, Zope,Bottle,Swagger, Pyramid/Turbogears, Pylons, Flask, Web2py, Gunicorn, Totnado, CherryPy, SpringFrameworksfor developing backend of web applications.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and Python/PHP), WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) architecture and MVC struts.  • Experience in writing playbooks for Ansible and deploying applications using Ansible.  • Expertise in Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud Platform which includes services like EC2, S3, VPC, ELB, IAM, Glacier, Aurora, RDS, DynamoDB, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Route 53, Elastic Beanstalk (EBS), AutoScaling, Security Groups, EC2 Container Service (ECS), Code Commit, Code Pipeline, CodeBuild, Code Deploy, Dynamo DB, Auto Scaling, Security Groups, Red shift, CloudWatch, CloudFormation, CloudTrail, OpsWorks, Kinesis, IAM, SQS, SNS, SES.  • Experience in developingRESTfulAPI's using DjangoREST Framework, consumed via Rectangular, a 3rd party Angular.JS service.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAPwebservice and SOAPUI.  • Hands-on experience in developing web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using PythonFlask, Django and PHP.  • Experience in Web development with Python and Django, with good understanding of ORM and SQLAlchemy, SQL, ETL, Bash/Linux, Asynchronous task queues with Celery and RabbitMQ.  • Expertise in designing rich Graphic User Interface(GUI)/Single Page Applications (SPAs) and frontend layouts on the web using CSS, HTML, XML, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, XSLT, XAML and JQuery, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, Angular2, Angular4, TypeScript, React JS, backbone.js, Require.js.  • Experienced in SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance (Global Temporary Tables, Inline views, Materialized views and Bulk Binds).  • Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy&BottlePy framework.  • Leveraging queuing architectures with RabbitMQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, PL/SQL, MongoDB, Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, SQL Server, MSSQL, PostgreSQL, CouchDB, DynamoDB, Redis, RDS, Aurora, Redshift, Cassandra and SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Experience in relational databases like Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i/8i, MS SQL server, developing PL/SQL packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, Views, Indexes, Triggers, XML join, user defined data types and other complex queries.  • Contributed in migrating data from Oracle database to ApacheCassandra (a NoSQL database) using SSTableloader.  • In-depth understanding of MongoDBHAstrategies, including Replicasets and Sharding  • Good knowledge in developing the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP, web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Well experience in Data Extraction, Transforming and Loading (ETL) using various tools such as SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Data Transformation Services (DTS).  • Knowledge of advanced level programming in C/C++ including thread synchronization multithreading, multi-processing, concurrency and TCP/IP Socket Programming.  • Strong Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQL Alchemy.  • Have experience on Kubernetes and Docker Container for runtime environment of system to build, test & deploy  • Having hands experience on JSON modules of python to call web service to handle the multi-processing created a celery tasks with the help of message broker RabbitMQ.  • Good knowledge in Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model layers from Application Layer(L7) to Physical Layer(L1).  • Good familiarity with Networking Technologies/Protocal like TCP/IP, UDP, FTP, DNS, LDAP, Network Manager, and DHCP. Performed configuration of standard Linux and network protocols, such as SMTP, DHCP, DNS, LDAP, NFS, SMTP, HTTP, and others.  • Proficient with Apache Web Server 2.0, NginX, Tomcat, Web Logic, JBoss servers, MySQL 5, CVS, UNIX Shell Script, Firefox 3.5, IE 6 Browser Compatibility Issues, IIS and Linux.  • Experience in using various Application Servers and Web Servers such as Tomcat, WebLogic and IBM HTTP.  • Experienced in Version controls using Git, SVN/Subversion, Perforce, Team Foundation Server, Rational ClearCase, SCM, CVS and GitHub.  • Expertise in Continuous Integration of applications using various Integration tools such as Jenkins, Hudson, TeamCity, CruiseControl, Bamboo, Bitbucket, TFS etc  • Experience in programming languages like C/EmbeddedC, C++, Data structures and proprietary RTOS.  • Hands-on experience in working with the Build Tools such as Apache Ant, Apache Maven, Gradle, Grunt, Gulp, WebPack, MSBuild, Nant, Rake, Make etc  • Experienced in Test Driven Development using Python, coordinating test effort, creating test conditions, test cases.  • Experience in writing functional/unit Rspec tests using TDD/BDD/ATDD built base test framework around mobile site.  • Expertise in developing applications using Java, J2EE Technologies (JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Java Web Services, EJB, Struts, Spring, Hibernate), Spring Core, Spring Boot, MicroServices, Swings, Classes, JDK, Java Applets, JDBC, XML, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, CSS, SOAP, Rest, Restful.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, Functional testing and User acceptance testing.  • Expertise in Testing of Python applications using different Automation Testing tools such as Selenium/Selenium WebDriver/Selenium IDE/Selenium RC/Selenium Grid,PyTest, Robot, NoseTest, Cucumber, Karma, Jasmine, Junit, Qunit, JMeter, SoapUI, Sancho, SubUnit, Testify, Grail etc  • Extensive knowledge on automated batch programs by Linux/UNIX shell Scripts (such as file download, file Validation, assign permissions and workflow executions).  • Experience with virtualization tools, used for supporting and hosting OIM Components, such as Oracle Virtual Box, VMware Workstation, Oracle VM Server and VMware vSphere.  • Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions. Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels and can work as a part of team as well as independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Matlen Silver - New York, NY February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Exposed to various phases of Software Development Life Cycle using Agile - Scrum Software development methodology.  • Implemented Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Template and DAO patterns.  • Selecting appropriate AWS services to design and deploy an application based on given requirements  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, and IIS.  • Developed strategy to migrate Dev/Test/Production from an enterprise VMware infrastructure to the IaaSAmazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud environment including runbook processes and procedures.  • Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into AmazonCloud.  • Coded various business process methods required for creation of Web Services related to customer information and provider information, using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS, REST web services.  • Worked with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Developed high-performance distributed queueing system. Scala, Redis, Akka, closure, MQ messaging, Json Developed new functionality for interactive healthcare system.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, NodeJS, AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4,Wire-Framing and HTML5.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4,Adobe flash.  • Used Ansible for automating cloud deployment process.  • Created new JSP views to incorporate backend functionality to display on the UI screens using client rich technologies like JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS files.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQLDB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shellscripting.  • Worked on PythonOpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Involved in deployment using Docker Container on AWS.  • Involved in configured DNS, DHCP, Active Directory, with strong focus on Domain Controller maintenance including Windows Server.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWareAPI calls.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jenkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MySQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pairbasedprogramming.  • Designed and developed integration methodologies between client web portals and existing software infrastructure using SOAP API's and vendor specific frameworks.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  • Utilized PyUnit, the PythonUnit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Implemented Log4j mechanism for logging at different modules within the application.  • Implemented Test Driven development (TDD) using frameworks like Junit, Mockito and Easy mock.    Environment:Linux, Windows, AWS, EC2, VPC, Glacier, RDS, Aurora, SQLAlchemy,Docker, Angular JS, Angular2, Angular4, Node JS, Python 3.5, Django 1.7, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Redis, RabbitMQ, Bootstrap, AJAX,JQuery, Pandas, SOAP, Rest, PyUnit, PostGreSQL, Shell Script, MySQL, Servlets, Agile, Enterprise Scheduler, Bitvise SSH Client, Scrum, Heroku, JIRA, GIT. Sr. Python Developer Western Digital Corporation - San Jose, CA October 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities: -  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Write scripts using python modules and its libraries to develop programs that improve processing of access requests.  • Worked on various complex modules in python including ceODBC, pyODBC, JSON, XML, Requests, profiler.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle 9i.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, AJAX, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, Pyquery, Bootstrap, Mongo DB, Postgre SQL, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Open Systems Technologies - New York, NY December 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created APIs, database Model and Views UtilizationPythonin order to build responsive web page application.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed manyPython bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries fromPythonusing Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQLDB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed inPythonand Bash.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Added support for Apache web server and RDS to host static/media files and the database into AmazonCloud.  • Involved in design, implementation and modifying thePythoncode and MySQL database schema on-the back end.  • Developed user friendly and sophisticated graphicalrepresentation of the catalogue of items that would be configured for a piece of equipment.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, matplotlib.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and UNIX shell scripting.  • Python Object Oriented Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debuggingcodeoptimization.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shellscripting.  • Monitoring Python scripts run as daemons in the UNIX/Linux system background to collect trigger and feed arrival information. Helped calculating SLA misses.  • Work on SCR's (source change request). involved working on Perl, Python,PHP and ShellScripting.  • CreatedPython/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings. Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.    Environment: Python 2.7, DJango 1.7, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, AJAX, JQuery, Pandas, MySQL, Restful APIs, JavaBeans, Servlets, Agile, Scrum, Heroku, JIRA, GIT. Python Developer Nuspire Networks - Walled Lake, MI May 2012 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling and Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python and Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework and Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in Postgre SQL.    Environment: Python 2.7, RabbitMQ, FORTAN, XML, WSDL, Flask, Django, Pandas, MySQL, CSS, HTML, Jenkins, Google App Engine.    Trimble, Inc,Westminster, CO Jun 2010 to Apl 2012 Python Developer    Responsibilities:  • Developing, modifying, fixing, reviewing, testing and migrating theJava, JSP, XML, Servlet, SQLs, JSF, Spring and hibernate programs.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Singleton, command, Factory, Business Delegate, Session façade, Service locator, Transfer object and view object for developing enterprise application.  • Used multithreading concepts while creating DAO classes. Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Worked on creating various documents that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Developing Responsive Design UI Rich Rest Service Applications, Single Page Applications and HTML Wireframes using HTML4 Grid Structures/Layouts, CSS3 Media Queries, Ajax, Angular JS and Bootstrap.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Used SOAP UI to test the web services, created cases SOAP UI testand worked on SOAP composite projects.  • Involved in the development of business module applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, Struts, JDBC and ODBC.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JQuery, JavaScript extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Involved in the development using Spring Model View Controller (MVC) with Data access/integration layer consists ORM module.  • Designing classes using design pattern methodologies such as Singleton, Service Locator, and DAO factory and session façade patterns. Involved in Performance tuning.  • Created tables, complex join queries, stored procedures, views, Types, triggers and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL developer.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.    Environment:Java, J2EE, Oracle 11g, Unified Modelling Language(UML), XML, Web services, SOAP, Angular JS, JUnit, RAD, CSS, HTML, DHTML, XSL, XSLT and MySQL. Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (5 years), Git (5 years), HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), PYTHON (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    ProgrammingLanguages Python, JAVA, C#, C  Scripting Languages Scala, Shell Script (Bash, ZSH, KSH), Unix  QueryLanguages SQL, PL/SQL, HQL  OperatingSystems Windows Vista/XP/7/8/10, Linux, Unix, OS X  Python Libraries/Packages  HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Py Query, Numpy, Scipy, Pickle, PyQT, PySide, wxPython, PyTables, DataFrames, SQLAlchemy, Twisted, Pygame, pyGtk, Pandas, Matplotlib    AWS Services  EC2, S3, VPC, ELB, IAM, Glacier, Aurora, RDS, DynamoDB, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Route 53, Elastic Beanstalk (EBS), AutoScaling, Security Groups, EC2 Container Service (ECS), Code Commit, Code Pipeline, CodeBuild, Code Deploy, Dynamo DB, Auto Scaling, Security Groups, Red shift, CloudWatch, CloudFormation, CloudTrail, OpsWorks, Kinesis, IAM, SQS, SNS, SES    WebDevelopment  CSS, HTML, XML, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, XSLT, XAML and Angular JS, Angular2, Angular4, TypeScript, Node JS, NPM, React JS, Redux, BackBone Js, Knockout JS, D3.JS, Vue.JS, JQuery, Ember JS, Ext JS    WebServers WebSphere, WebLogic, Apache, Gunicorn  PythonFramework DJango, Zope, Bottle,Swagger, Pyramid/Turbogears, Pylons, Flask, Web2py, Gunicorn, Totnado, CherryPy, Spring  BugTrackingTools Jira, Bugzilla, Junit, gdb  Databases Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, MySQL, SQL Server, MSSQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, CouchDB, DynamoDB, Cassandra, Redis, RDS, Aurora, Redshift  Servers Apache Web Server 2.0, NginX, Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic  CloudComputing Amazon Web Services (AWS), Heroku, Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall, TDD, ATDD, BDD  IDEs  PyDev, PyScripter, Pycharm, Spider, Python IDLE, Brackets, Eclipse, JBuilder, Jdeveloper, Eric, Komodo Edit, Komodo IDE, Cloud9 IDE, DrPython and NetBeans    VersionControls Git, SVN/Subversion, Perforce, Team Foundation Server, Rational ClearCase, SCM, CVS, GitHub  Build Tools Apache Ant, Apache Maven, Gradle, Grunt, Gulp, WebPack, MSBuild, Nant, Rake, Make  Virtualization VMware Workstation, virtual Box  Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Session Facade, IOC, Singleton, Data Access Object, Business Delegate  Architectures LAMP, WAMP  Java Technologies  JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Java Web Services, EJB, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Core, Spring Boot, MicroServices, Swings, Classes, JDK, Java Applets, JDBC, XML, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, CSS, SOAP, Rest, Restful.    Networking Technologies TCP/IP, UDP, FTP, DNS, LDAP, SMTP, DHCP, DNS, LDAP, NFS, SMTP, HTTP  Testing Tools  Selenium/Selenium WebDriver/Selenium IDE/Selenium RC/Selenium Grid, PyTest, Robot, NoseTest, Cucumber, Karma, Jasmine, Junit, Qunit, JMeter, SoapUI, Sancho, SubUnit, Testify, Grail