Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital New Brunswick, NJ ? 6 years of industrial experience working as a core Python Developer and Front end/UI Developer responsible in developing interactive web applications with valuable & intuitive user experiences.  ? Expertise in web-based applications with extensive use of Python 2.7, Python 3.3, Python 3.4 Django 1.4/1.3, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML.  ? Experience with Requests, NumPy, Matplotlib, SciPy, PySpark and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  ? Experience in analyzing data using Python, R, SQL, Microsoft Excel, Hive, PySpark, Spark SQL for Data Mining, Data Cleansing, Data Munging and Machine Learning. Hands on experience in Designing and developing API's for the application using Python, Django, MongoDB, Express, ReactJS, and NodeJS.  ? Working Knowledge of Pandas, NumPy, SciPy. Good working knowledge of Deep Learning Python libraries.  ? Hands-on experience in developing web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP.  ? Experience in project deployment using Google Cloud/Jenkins, ElasticSearch and using web Services like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installed and configured Kubernetes.  ? Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript, CSS, Bootstrap.  ? Strong expertise in development of web-based applications using Python, Java, HTML, XML, AngularJS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  ? Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic. Well versed in writing unit test cases and Selenium test cases.  ? Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront, and Route 53.  ? Experience in using Eclipse, PyCharm, Visual Studio, Pyscripter and Sublime Text while developing different application in python. Good knowledge on SOAP and JSON web services.  ? Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, JQuery, while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  ? Experience in Web development with Python and Django, with good understanding of ORM and SQLAlchemy, SQL, ETL, Linux, Asynchronous task queues with Celery and RabbitMQ. Work Experience Senior Python Developer Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital - New Brunswick, NJ January 2019 to Present Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. Also, used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  ? Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework. Performing Functional testing, regression testing, integration testing, and communication testing.  ? Utilized Python Libraries like Boto3, NumPy for AWS. Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Developed efficient Angular.js for client web-based application.  ? Developed Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based web services for different applications called User Service and other applications using Representational State Transfer (REST) based Web services.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 instance to deploy Django project into AWS. Configured continuous integration with Jenkins on Amazon EC2.  ? Executed MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Used ElasticSearch and DynamoDB Streams to automatically index chat messages for future analysis.  ? Worked on implementing Spark Framework a Java based Web Frame work. Worked and learned a great deal from AWS cloud services like EC2, S3.  ? Involved in the development of user interface applications and professional web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, XML, Node JS, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  ? Worked with the Linux/Unix admin team to set up, configure, initialize and troubleshoot a Cassandra cluster.  ? Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  ? Golang, Infrastructure Teams and Engineering Productivity utilizing Kubernetes, Docker, influx DB Ansible, Spinnaker.  ? Supported development of Web portals, completed Database Modelling in PostgreSQL, front end support in HTML/CSS, jQuery. Python Developer E-Trade - New York, NY June 2018 to December 2018 Created an Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python, Django, JSF, Spring, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  ? Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  ? Built Elasticsearch, Log stash and Kibana (ELK) to store logs and metrics into S3 bucket using Lambda function.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package to retrieve information.  ? Responsible for building components to connect to other microservices using Kafka, Elasticsearch, REST.  ? Developed the application RESTful API server using Django REST Framework, designing and developing various endpoints, defining Models, Serializers, View Sets and register corresponding URLs to the endpoints using DRF Routers.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Worked on integrating Python with Web development tools for developing Web Services in python using XML, JSON.  ? Worked on server-side applications with Django using Python programming and used python libraries like Beautiful Soup, matplotlib, SciPy, NumPy and Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  ? Involved in using Python, MongoDB and ReactJS for the design, development, and deployment of the application.  ? Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 instance to deploy Django project into AWS. Configured continuous integration with Jenkins on Amazon EC2.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  ? Connected the database and the application server by using the Django PostgreSQL engine driver and Psycopg2 library and created a RESTful API server with Django REST API framework.  ? Developed plugins to de-serialize data in non-native Kafka. Designed and developed multiple Applications for the client using Angular 4/5 along with HTML5, CSS3, and Typescript and Bootstrap4, NodeJS, MySQL. Python/Django Developer Jersey Shore University Medical Center - Neptune City, NJ July 2015 to July 2017 Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Python and Django. Utilized Jenkins to deploy the Django application and run unit tests.  ? Managed large datasets using Pandas API ecosystem to analyze the different segments of customers based on Location.  ? Developed project's web page as Single Page Application (SPA) by using AngularJS and JavaScript API and build delivery driver application.  ? Developed data processing tasks using PySpark such as reading data from external sources, merge data, perform data enrichment and load into target data destinations. Utilized pandas, NumPy, SciPy, and nltk libraries to create unique reports and analysis.  ? Involved in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views, Templates using CSS for whole site following Django MVC architecture and HTTP methods, RESTful architecture.  ? Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and to track sales and perform sales analysis using Django and PostgreSQL.  ? Extracted log from Git using Python and performed data cleaning using regex to generate the Changelogs for comparing different software versions.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration. Also gained familiarity with supporting technologies like kubernetes and Mesos.  ? Processed the Web server logs by developing Multi-Hop Flume agents by using Avro Sink and loaded into MongoDB for further analysis. Extracted files from MongoDB through Sqoop and placed in HDFS and processed it using Hive.  ? Developed Spark Script with PySpark, Java using PyCharm Spring Boot IDE that performs the internalization process.  ? Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package. UI Developer Essilor of America Inc - Dallas, TX March 2013 to June 2015 Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and other web technologies.  ? Created Responsive Web Design and developed application using HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  ? Worked with HTML, CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  ? Developed non-functional HTML5, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  ? Used React.js framework to render the code we declare the code in the react. Components then the react rendered and updated the code.  ? Developed web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for Big data analysis and using PySpark.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework by implementing MVC architecture. Maintain measurement website application UI with pandas and NumPy.  ? Developed GUI using OOD, JavaScript, Angular JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and jQuery, jQuery Mobile, Backbone.js in on-going projects.  ? Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed by Kubernetes Linux, Bash, GIT, Docker, on GCP (Google Cloud Platform). Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploys.  ? Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as ensure code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  ? Involved in design and implementation of Selenium WebDriver automation framework for smoke and regression test suites (TestNG).  ? Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.    EXPERIENCE Education Master's in computer science in computer science Tandom School of Engineering 2019 Skills CSS, Jquery, Javascript, MYSQL, PHP, Angular.Js (6 years), EC2 (6 years), Cloud (5 years), AWS (5 years), Numpy (4 years), JSON (5 years), Python (6 years), HTML (6 years), HTML 5 (5 years), SQL (6 years), Bootstrap (5 years), MongoDB (4 years), ElasticSearch (4 years)