Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Comcast Newark, DE Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Comcast - Sterling, VA March 2019 to Present In this project; we are implementing a new automation testing framework for Comcast. Comcast is a leading company in providing cable, entertainment, and communication products and services. The purpose of this project is to implement a new framework for automation testing using Behave-BDD and Robot frameworks. The main objective is to increase the performance of Xfinity platform, enhance the QA, and provide a pleasant service to Comcast customers. To achieve that we have implemented different APIs using python and various scenarios have been written for testing, each test has its own functionality, when the payload structure formed to run the API, a proper response is expected, for that response the assertion and validation process will start to check if the API's works well or not.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the all phases of Software Development Life Cycle like Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design and implementation of the project.  ? My responsibilities included building up the framework using python, writing a step definition for scenarios steps, implementing APIs and optimizing the whole entire code  ? Used Behave-BDD to test the user stories that written by business analysts for different scenarios.  ? Used virtualenv and pip to work in segregated environments for specific project requirements.  ? Deployed the application through GitHub for the version control.  ? Developed Restful API's for all the functionalities implemented in the project.  ? Used different databases for loading and fetching the testing data like MySQL, MongoDB, JSON format and flat files.  ? Worked on parallel execution to run the scenarios in parallel for sufficient performance.  ? Worked on regular expressions to validate input fields and URLs.  ? Used effective implementation of ORM definition to connect the database.  ? Created new keywords in robot framework to call different APIs.  Environment: Python, behave-bdd, Unit Test, GitHub, robot framework, PyCharm IDE, ORM, MongoDB and MySQL, JSON. Python-Django, Angular Developer AmeriHealth Care Insurance - Cranbury, NJ May 2018 to February 2019 This project involved development of the company's web-based application process, providing customers with an easy to navigate user interface, and the ability to choose various health insurance plans using statistics produced by analyzing healthcare data from the state of New Jersey. The main objective was to evaluate healthcare insurance information to develop new procedures that help to improve the insurance process as whole. My role in this project was to create a module to collect and store user information using the Django framework for the back-end and Angular for the user-friendly interfaces. The module provided the user with multiple forms to collect their information and validate it before storing the information in a MongoDB database and displaying a number of plans that match their profile. Upon the selection of a plan, an API was called to store and link the user profile to that plan.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in complete Agile SDLC including collect requirements, analysis, design and development.  ? Developed various forms using CSS3, HTML5, Oracle SQL, Django and Angular.  ? Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development, Bootstrap and Angular for frontend connectivity and MongoDB for database.  ? Managed backend infrastructure and dealt with daily bugs.  ? Designed and Created functional dashboard from multiple data outlets.  ? Used Django Migrations for designing and expanding of the database, and GIT for version control.  ? Created various Python Django apps and extensively used Python Django-Session and management.  ? Developed multiple modules, each module contains multiple components for Angular using TypeScript programming concept.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scraping to extract data for building graphs.  ? Responsible for creation of Django applications, with models using a plenty of queries, views, and routing.  ? Created built-in and custom Pipes from Angular for filtering the data from server before displaying it in the UI.  Environment: Angular, Django, Python, MySQL, VScode, HTML, CSS, Oracle SQL, MongoDB, Postman Python/Django Developer IKEA - Elizabeth, NJ September 2016 to March 2018 The purpose of this project was to bring IKEA's tracking technology up to date to keep records of their customers and products as well as to provide the status and comprehensive history of any item across every store in real-time. Using this application, admin users were able to know which items low rate of sales have, so they can put these items on clearance. It was accomplished by updating the database and creating a friendly user interface to allow more sales by sending emails to customers to gain their attention and inform them about new and upcoming sale offers. I was involved in redesigning the dashboard, alert automation and sales module.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Worked with other developers and project team during design and development phase to ensure the compatibility with system requirements.  ? Created and developed the entire application using Python, Django Framework, JavaScript and MySQL database.  ? Connected the MySQL database and the application server by using the Django web framework ORM.  ? Managed relational database applications with UI by designing services and Django framework.  ? Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, and a website interface is created.  ? Implemented modules and consume REST web services in JSON format using Django.  ? Used Python Report Lab to generate various reports and sent them to managers to help them in decision making.  ? Created efficient and interactive user interface using Django templates with HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  ? Created CRUD methods (get, post, put, delete) to make requests to the Python Django API server and tested Restful API using Postman.  ? Visualized data using Python libraries such as NumPy, Pandas and Matplotlib.  ? Tested web APIs by using Postman and used GIT for source control.  Environment: Pythons, Unit Test, Django, JavaScript, GitHub, Postman, PyCharm IDE Python-Django, Angular Developer Citibank - Jersey City, NJ October 2014 to August 2016 The bank credit department required an application to evaluate customer eligibility for loans and lines of credit. The project was designed to create two main modules, the admin and client modules. The admin module allows the authorized and authenticated users to create and manage loans, grant credits and modify credit limits based on client history. The client's module that allows a client to register for an account and after approval they are able to see all active loans with loan details, and it allows them to apply for small business loans that are created by the admin. As a python developer, I was assigned the task of creating the admin module with its related APIs, databases. I also collaborated with my team on the client module design and various integrated APIs. My team was responsible for defining the application's technologies and strategies in-line with contemporary business dynamics.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Gathered requirements from business users and involved in high level architecture and designing the application.  ? Implemented routing in Single Page Application using Angular router module.  ? Understanding of the threading limitations of Python, and multi-process architecture.  ? Integrated MongoDB with Python Django by using Django ODM (Object Document Mapper) to perform CRUD (Create Read Update Delete) operations on the fly.  ? Participated in daily scrum meetings and used AGILE methodologies to manage the full lifecycle development of the project.  ? Used directives, ng-IF, Ng-Model, Ng-Repeat, One-Way Data Binding, and Two-Way Data Binding.  ? Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  ? Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  ? Used data structures like Lists, Tuples, Dictionaries, Sets and object-oriented features of python.  ? Integration of data storage solutions using Django ORM system for MongoDB, and setup Django admin for backend manipulation of data.  ? Development of test framework using the Python and using Shell scripting for execution of test.  Environment: Python, Django, Shell scripting, Visual Studio Code, HTML, CSS, MongoDB, JSon Python-Django Developer Al-Aqsa University July 2012 to August 2014 This project consisted of developing an application for the education degree department for its graduating class. As part of completion of the fourth year education degree, senior class students have to participate in an internship program to obtain their degree. I was involved in creating a module where students can register for internship programs based on the institute's availability. As a member of the application development team, I developed software that aided the university admin in approving students for internships in certain institutes. The application also helped students and the department to keep track of evaluation process. Our team created this application using Python, Django, JavaScript, html, CSS, and Oracle database.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the project analysis, design, and implementation &debugging.  ? Integrated data from various backend services and different databases (Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB).  ? Designed the DB schema for the application using Oracle database.  ? Python Django Framework Model View Template (MVT) architecture was used in developing the web applications.  ? Involved in the maintenance of Application and the database Servers.  ? Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and store them in database.  ? Implemented code to perform Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) operations on MongoDB using PyMongo module.  ? Used server-side authentication and cookie-based session management to secure information and allow for persistence of data.  ? Connected Oracle database and the application server by using the Django Web Framework ORM.  ? Used Python on Django Web Framework to develop entire frontend and backend modules.  ? Used Django authentication and User module for authorization.  Environment: Django, Python, Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, JavaScript, TypeScript, VScode, HTML Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering The Islamic University 2011 Skills Django, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Python, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Tensorflow, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Sqlite, Mongodb, Html5, Microsoft office Additional Information ? Result-driven IT Professional with referable & strong experience in using Python, Object Oriented Programming, database design and Oracle development with Computer Engineering background.  ? Thorough in all phases of SDLC including Requirements Gathering, Design, Analysis and Testing of customer specifications and Development.  ? Highly skilled in Object Oriented Analysis and developing Python\ Django back-ends.  ? Expert in developing Web Applications by implementing Model Template View architecture using Python and Django web application framework.  ? Strong experience using REST Web Services for data communication between remote systems.  ? Experience in designing and developing the UI of the website using Angular, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  ? Proficient in SQL with very good PL/SQL programming to build stored procedures and functions.  ? Strong experience on setting up and working with CRUD operations on Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL and MongoDB.  ? Hands on experience in developing and implementing RESTful API web services using Django.  ? Good knowledge in Multithreading and Exception Handling.  ? Good knowledge with Machine Learning algorithms like (SVM, Naive Bayes, Decision Trees, KNN, K-means and Neural Networks).  ? Experience working with (Behave BDD, Robot) framework for automation testing.  ? Experience in fine tuning the applications for performance enhancement and expert in debugging and solving bugs.  ? Experience in hosting projects in GitHub using GIT and handling the day to day issues following AGILE methodology.  ? Versatile team player with excellent analytical, inter-personnel and presentation skill with ability to quickly adapt to new technologies & project environments.    Technical competencies:    Languages: Python, R, JavaScript and SQL  Databases: Oracle, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, MYSQL, SQLite  Python Modules: TensorFlow, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, re, SQLAlchemy, Requests, Behave-BDD, JSON  Tools: Postman, MongoDB Shell, Microsoft Office, MySQL Workbench, GIT, PyCharm, GitHub  Web Development: Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Django, Angular, Restful APIs