PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER - CERNER Kansas City, KS • Around 6+ years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Python -twitter, Pandas data frame, networks, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive .com  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Python web application frameworks.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Excellent knowledge of Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Kinesis, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing and other services of the AWS family.  • Experience on setting up the life cycle policies to back the data from AWS S3 to AWS Glacier, Worked with various AWS, EC2 and S3 CLI tools.  • Proficiency in creating Database with good understanding on Features, Structure, Attributes, Hierarchies.  • Expert in performing T-SQL DDL/DML/DCL commands using SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) .  • Experience in writing Terraform scripts for AWS infrastructure.  • Worked DevOps methodologies and cloud infrastructure automation tools like AWS, Chef by using Terraform.  • Used Spark API over Cloudera Hadoop YARN to perform analytics on data.  • Exploring with the Spark improving the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, Pair RDD's, Spark YARN.  • Used all major ETL transformations to load the tables through Informatica mappings.  • Strong experience in Big data, Bigdata Integration and Analytics technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, Kafka, Storm  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Sound experience in Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Framework using Django.  • Experience in working with PYTHON ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Experience in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid for developing web applications.  • Machine Learning (Familiar with the basic algorithms of machine learning)  E.g. Decision Trees, Logistic Regression, SVM, Naïve Bayesian classification, KNN, k-means clustering Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER CERNER - Kansas City, MO January 2018 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Designed views and templates with Python Django's view controller and templating language to create a web interface.  • Designed presentation part in JSP (Dynamic content) and HTML (for static pages).  • Design and develop ETL APIs which will automate the data mining in different database sources.  • Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using amazon elastic bean stalk.  • End to End solution for hosting the web application on AWS cloud with integration to S3 buckets. Managing AWS Infra and automation with CLI, API.  • Use TCP/IP protocol to connect with server which has database available to connect for the ETL tool.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python .  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure, Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using AWS Code pipeline, code commit Jenkins, Chef, Maven & Nexus in Linux server's environment.  • Prepared test data files using Linux Shell scripts, Perl script as per the business requirements.  • Responsible for design of the backend request processing system and interface between CPO and Perl scripts from scratch.  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which includes web servers, ELB, Cloud Front distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration.  • Started developing with Django and currently developing with Django 1.0.  • Created entire application using Python, Perl, PostgreSQL and Linux.  • Used Wire shark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Build high-performance streaming REST server in Flask.  • Worked on API's deploying queries, status codes, requests to retrieve data in json format  • Worked on data exchange from website using xml, java and web services  • Worked on python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database  • Coordinated with team members to improve quality assurance and mitigate risks  • Wrote stored procedures in MySQL    ENVIRONMENT: Python, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX, Windows, and python libraries such as Numpy, SQL Alchemy, etc. PYTHON DEVELOPER EQUIFAX, ST. LOUIS January 2016 to December 2017 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Gathering requirements and translating the business details into Technical design.  • Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's to create a user-friendly website interface .  • Utilized Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, SciPy, Web2py.  • Designed RESTful Web services using FLASK, with emphasis on improved Security for the service using FLASK-HTTPAuth with HTTPS.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Creating RESTful web services with Django MVT, and MySQL.  • Collaborated within a team using an Agile Development workflow and widely accepted collaboration practices using Git.  • uses Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances in Auto Scaling groups to create a web services tier for its mobile applications  • Deployed and maintained production environment using AWS EC2 instances and Elastic Container Services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  • Written test cases using PyUnit and Selenium Automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  • Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.    ENVIRONMENT: Python, Django, CherryPy, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, Git, JavaScript, AJAX, RESTful web service, MySQL, Windows. PYTHON DEVELOPER MAVIN SOLUTIONS - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2012 to August 2015 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Built application logic using Python.  • Install and Configure Linux with Apache, Oracle 8I and PHP (LAMP Project) and web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Performed web testing and automated testing using Selenium in the test environment and opened bugs in the bug tracking tool.  • Developed high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms.  • Tools C++, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT) IBM MQ libraries, Perl, Python scripting  • Developed Real-time messaging system for new payment framework for Linux, UNIX (HP), AIX OS platforms.  • Knowledge of the Server, Network, and Hosting Environment.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery)  • Writing SOAP and Restful web services, in house ESB for a web claims application (Spring MVC, Angular JS, ActiveMQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Build forge)  • Worked on python-based test frameworks and test-driven development with automation tools  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Used Ansible for automating cloud deployment process.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.    ENVIRONMENT: Linux, Python, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, Ajax, Shell Script, HTML, CSS.8 JR. PYTHON DEVELOPER SUTHERLAND - IN May 2011 to June 2012 INDIA    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Performed design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python  • Worked on tuples, dictionaries, object-oriented concepts-based inheritance features for making algorithms.  • Interacting with team members on technical programming.  • Solving production support issues (such as bug fixes, queries etc).  • Prepared documentation for the generated reports  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser  • Developed the customer complaints application using Django Framework, which includes Python code.  • Involved in development of main modules like CSV import, bulk content upload.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Involved in building database Model APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an iterative web-based solution.  • Used Git as a version-controlling tool to collaborate and coordinate with the team members.  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL  • Worked on UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Used Git for version control  • Monitored and troubleshot web applications  • Performed data analysis, manipulation and reporting using pivot tables and advanced functions in MS excel  ENVIRONMENT: Python, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX, Windows, and Python libraries. Education Master's Skills API, DJANGO, Git, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, Android, ASP, jQuery, MySQL, PHP Additional Information SKILLS:  PYTHON, DJANGO, Git, JAVASCRIPT    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: Python, PHP  IDE's: PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans,  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, JSON  Frameworks: Django, Flask  Database: SQL Server  Web Servers: Web Logic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat  Version Controls: Git.  Operating Systems: MS Windows, Linux/Unix  Cloud Services: AWS, Azure, Kubernetes  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum    AWS Services Internet Gateway, API Gateway, Lambda, Load Balancer, Dynamo DB, Appsync, Elastic Search, Elastic Beanstalk, Batch, EMR, Code Pipeline, S3, SNS