Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Celgene Berkeley Heights, NJ • 8+ years of experience in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Deployment and Testing of software applications.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  • Experience in implementing with server side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node JS and Django framework.  • Implemented different applications using MVC frameworks of Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Worked on object oriented programming concepts using Python and Django.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Implemented different python libraries BeautifulSoup, numpy, scipy, pytables, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame and urllib2 in various tasks.  • Good Experience in debugging the issues using pdb.  • Leveraging queueing architectures with RabbitMQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Working experience in Java Collections, Interfaces, Exception Handling and Performance Tuning.  • Experience on Web Technologies using HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, XML and JSON by following W3C standards.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS.  • Worked in cross browser compatibility, Bootstrap and Responsive web design.  • Good Experience in implementing Soap and Restful Web Services using XML, JSON and JERSEY.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3 and Amazon EC2.  • Good knowledge of Apache server, Apache Server Tomcat and Web logic.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL database with Apache Cassandra and MongoDB.  • Good knowledge of SQLite, MySQL, MSSQL and Cassandra databases with Python.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL database.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Experience with automated testing by writing test scripts.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Experience with Version Control with SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment.  • Experience in Agile methodologies with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test Driven Development.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings and bi-weekly sprints to check the status of ongoing tasks and can able to work independently or as a part of team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Celgene - Berkeley Heights, NJ February 2019 to Present Celgene is a global biopharmaceutical company leading the way in medical innovation to help patients live longer, better lives. The main purpose is to discover and develop therapies that will change the course of human health.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment by participating in complete SDLC process.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the inquiry Tool for automated Asset/Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Created the backend application using Python, Django and MySQL.  • Performed server side application using Django framework and developed a chat application with it and integrated with the main application by client-server architecture.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Improved the application by designing and developing it using HTML and JavaScript.  • Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular JS.  • Worked on dynamic web applications by using Angular JS.  • Implemented the Backbone JS for DOM manipulation as this is the light web framework compared to Angular JS.  • Worked on cross browser compilation and Responsive web Design using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Used SAX for XML parsing, JSON and AJAX to send request to secured web service.  • Worked on python modules to extract /load asset data from the MySQL database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the Webapps and report on daily progress.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and beautifulsoup (b4) to perform unit testing.  • Worked on Jenkins for continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control.  • Involved in development, performance testing & defects fixing.  • Update, maintain and change the current web applications as per the project requirement.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Worked on various enhancements and bug fixes simultaneously.  • Involved in code reviews so as to implement coding standards for the entire project.  • Maintain and compile records of website content.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Beautifulsoup, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Node.js, Restful Web services, Apache, Linux, Amazon s3, Heroku, GIT, MySQL, Mongo DB. Python developer Citi Bank - Township of Warren, NJ June 2018 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for complete SDLC process in gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Used Numpy and pandas for Numerical and statistical analysis.  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Spearheaded adoption of Responsive web design principles and converted existing websites to Responsive websites by using Bootstrap.  • Used Angular JS for developing single page web applications.  • Designed a chat application using Node JS.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Created interactive websites and its features using JQuery/JQuery UI.  • Extensive use of AJAX to provide a dynamic user experience.  • Used Django framework along with Postgres for application development and to provide comprehensive logging of all stock transactions.  • Implemented web applications using Flask frame work by following MVC architecture.  • Used Amazon AWS SDK to deploy application on Amazon S3 Cloud.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, read, update and delete.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/ store data.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, Node JS, GIT, Linux, Shell Scripting, AWS SDK, MYSQL, mongo DB. Python Developer Humana Healthcare Insurance - Lancaster, SC January 2017 to June 2018 Humana Inc., is a Fortune 100 company that markets and administers health insurance in The United States. Humana is committed to helping employers manage their healthcare costs, guiding consumers to make informed health and benefits Decisions, and giving back to the communities they serve.  Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used Bootstrap extensively for organizing the web page created.  • Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid and Zope frame works.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing web applications using Django frame work.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web Scraping.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application. Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.3, HTML5/CSS, CSS Bootstrap, Pyramid, MYSQL, MS SQL, JavaScript, SVN, Linux, Shell Scripting, Apache Web Server. Python developer HDFC India January 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools written in Python.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Performed client side validations using JavaScript and server side validations using Django.  • Designed and developed the UI using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used RESTful API for information extraction.  • Created database using SQLite, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Jenkins for automation of build process and coordinated deployments across different sites.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Built development environment with JIRA and SVN.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.2, Pandas, HTML5, CSS, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Eclipse, Linux, SVN, Bugzilla, MySQL, Apache. Python/JAVA Developer InfrasoftTech - IN September 2012 to December 2014 InfrasoftTech is a specialist software solutions provider for global financial enterprises. It has wide productized offerings, framework based solutions and specialized services in the domains of Commercial Banking, Microfinance, Wealth Management and Capital Markets.  Responsibilities:  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Java and Python using Web Frameworks.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Rewrite existing modules into Python to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Using SVN tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  Environment: Java, Python, Linux, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, SVN, SQL, MYSQL. Java Developer Prog9 Soft Tech Pvt. ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to August 2012 E-Phaatshaala is designed to have a better interaction between students, teachers, parents & management. This software very gracefully handles all the requirements for easy school management. It also provides greater visibility of all the functions, such as grading and attendance, and evaluation of reports at any point of the school year.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Work with team of developers on Java applications for RISK management.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using JAVA.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  Environment: Java, Struts, Linux, HTML, CSS, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache web Server, SQL, MySQL. Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Beautifulsoup, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Node.js, Restful Web services, Apache, Linux, Amazon s3, Heroku, GIT, MySQL, Mongo DB. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems Windows 98/2000/XP/7,8,UNIX and Linux Centos  Programming Languages Python, JavaScript, Java  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and bootstrap.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Angular JS, Node JS  Webserver Apache HTTP webserver, WebLogic, WebSphere and Apache Tomcat  IDE Eclipse, Sublime Text, Brackets, Pycharm, Pystudio, Pyscripter.  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2, Jenkins and Fabric  J2EE JDBC, JSP and servlets  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, MySQL, Sqlite3, Cassandra and mongo DB  Testing Tools Bugzilla, Jasmine, Pyunit, JIRA and Junit  Miscellaneous Git, SVN