Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - American Express Frisco, TX • Professional 6+ years of experience in IT as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask and C++.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience converting HiveQL/SQL queries into Spark transformations through Spark RDD and Data frames API in Scala.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Open stack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS Cloud Formation, AWS Cloud Front and Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins.  • Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas Python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Loaded events to any data warehouse directly from python application to SQL queries.  • Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache and Siebel.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, backbone.js, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experience in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) Framework, JQuery, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites.  • Python script editor in Power Bi to create amazing viuals in seaborn.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in creating Open stack services for Identity, Compute, Image Service, Block Storage, Networking (Neutron, Keystone).  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in Python's modules numpy, matplotlibetc for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, Java Script and JQuery.  • Expert in developing web-based applications using PHP, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript and DOM scripting.  • Competent with PHP MyAdmin, MYSQL and SQL Server.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Installed, Configured, Managed Monitoring Tools such as Splunk, Nagios, Zabbix for Resource Monitoring/net- work/Monitoring/Log Trace Monitoring. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ April 2018 to Present The American Express Company, also known as Amex, is an American multinational financial services corporation headquartered in Three World Financial Center in New York City. The company was founded in 1850 and is one of the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The company is best known for its charge card, credit card, and traveler's cheque businesses.    Responsibilities: -  • The system is a full micro services architecture written in Python utilizing distributed message passing via Kafka with JSON as data exchange formats.  • Created 6 micro services that has the capability to transfer the input files to machine readable format and pass through respective payment channels.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Written Python utilities and scripts to automate tasks in AWS using boto3 and AWS SDK. Automated backups using AWS SDK (boto3) to transfer data into S3 buckets.  • Hands on experience with Hadoop/Spark Distribution - Cloudera, Hortonworks.  • Experience in implementing Spark with the integration of Hadoop Ecosystem.  • Experience in data cleansing using Spark map and Filter Functions.  • Experience in designing and developing application in Spark using Scala.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Did full-page caching well using Varnish and could handle massive traffic without breaking a sweat.  • Supported development of Web portals, completed Database Modelling in PostgreSQL, front end support in HTML/CSS, JQuery.  • Debugging the application and following messages in log files, to figure out the error if existing.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Involved in analyzing the problems using transaction breakdown, network monitoring and resource monitoring to find the performance bottleneck.  • Maintained and monitored frameworks like Django, flask.  • For reading the data faster integrated Radis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, Cloud front distribution, databases, security groups and application configuration.  • Designed and led big data algorithms using Hadoop and Java to improve forecasting and used Hive QL to generate reports  • Developed monitoring application which captures the error related data and store it in database.  • Involved in scrubbing project, which updates the existing data with hashed values.  • Reverse engineer and re-implement legacy back-end software into Python with minimal downtime.  • Work closely with project leads to learn about the Azure services, environment deployment, and integration with tooling.  • Used GitHub as a version control.  • Optimized system performance and managed the API lifecycle  • Worked closely with leads in implementation exposure on service based, SOA, RESTful technologies.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Used Grunt for build tool for configuring tasks, Karma, Jasmine for Unit Testing    Environment: Python, Drop wizard, Spring Boot, Lagom, Kafka, JSON, GitHub, LINUX, Django, Flask, Varnish, Nginx SOA. Sr. Python Developer Southwest Airlines - Dallas, TX September 2017 to March 2018 Southwest Airlines Co. is a major American airline headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and is the world's largest low cost carrier.  The airline was established on March 15, 1967 by Herb Kelleher as Air Southwest Co. and adopted its current name, Southwest Airlines Co., in 1971, when it began operating as an intrastate airline wholly within the state of Texas, first flying between Dallas, Houston and San Antonio.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Template and DAO patterns.  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, and IIS.  • Developed strategy to migrate Dev/Test/Production from an enterprise VMware infrastructure to the IaaSAmazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud environment including runbook processes and procedures.  • Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts.  • Coded various business process methods required for creation of Web Services related to customer information and provider information, using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS, REST web services.  • Worked with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Developed high-performance distributed queueing system. Scala, Redis, Akka, closure, MQ messaging, Json Developed new functionality for interactive healthcare system.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used Ansible for automating cloud deployment process.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Involved in deployment using Docker Container on AWS.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWareAPI calls.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MySQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Designed and developed integration methodologies between client web portals and existing software infrastructure using SOAP API's and vendor specific frameworks.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.    Environment: Python 2.7, DJango 1.7, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, AJAX, JQuery, Pandas, MySQL, Restful APIs, JavaBeans, Servlets, Agile, Scrum, Heroku, JIRA, GIT. Python Developer Wipro Ltd June 2013 to July 2017 Wipro Limited is an Indian multinational corporation that provides information technology, consulting and business process services.    Responsibilities: -  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, DataFeeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Java, Angular.js, Bootstrap, AWS, Bash, PyQt, XML, Shell Scripting, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jenkins, Apache Web Server, Linux. Education Masters Degree Skills Amazon web services, Git, Python, Scripting, Svn, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, nginx, Tomcat, Web services, Weblogic, Websphere, Jboss, Jira, Aix, Apache, Linux, Solaris, Javascript