Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Capital One Richmond, VA • Over 5 years of experience in the field of software development. Proficient in developing applications using Python, R and C++.  • Experience in IT industry with proficiency in Analysis, Design & Development Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development using, Python, Django, Flask and SQL projects.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  • Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and C++.  • Experienced in using Python, Django, PHP, C++, CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, AJAX and JSON for developing web applications.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Experience Amazon SQS, and Amazon Web Services like EC2, Redshift and S3.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell scripting.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  • Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Capital One - McLean, VA September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management  • Developed Python application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting  • Worked on Python Open stack API's,used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  • Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries scikit-learn and scipy.  • Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web based application in OOP concepts.  • Worked on several python packages like Matpoltlib, cx_Freeze, Pillow, Numpy, sockets.  • Worked on ETL Processing which consists of data transformation, data sourcing and also mapping,Conversion and loading.  • Worked on design and development of Unix Shell Scripting as a part of the ETL Process to automate the process of loading.  • Worked on ETL tasks like pulling, pushing data from and too various servers.  • Tested and evaluated results for inclusion into software product.  • Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis using R Studio  • Automating Email Process, Downloading and uploading the files through Perl Scripting.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met  • Used Machine learning techniques like unsupervised Classification, optimization and prediction.  • Worked on Python open stack API's  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like open stack.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team    Environment: Python 2.7,.NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX, Windows, and Python libraries Python Developer Iblesoft Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options. Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQL Alchemy).  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development. Framework based on CherryPy with GnuPg encryption (reGnuPg module) on the top.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Design and Setting up of environment of Mongodb with shards and replicasets. (Dev/Test and Production).  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin and Selenium.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed. NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Managed and reviewed Hadoop log file and worked in analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using PySpark.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery. Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Used Django framework for application development. Excellent knowledge with distributed storages (HDFS) and distributed processing (MapReduce, Yarn).  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team.  • Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.    Environment: MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.8, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, urllib, urllib2, Json, CherryPy, Unix, Redis, Bootstrap, Mongodb, SQL Alchemy, Jquery. Jr. Python Developer Indus Software Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system. This is a Customer feedback and complains management system.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix/VB  • Development of Application using Java and Python  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting - web and web services  • Data set up using SQL/ORACLE/Teradata.  • Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations  • Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web based logic rather than correlation and parameterization.  • Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analyzing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc.  • Testing in citrix protocol with scripts and scenario  • Execution of batch jobs in Control M, Perfmon and other tools  • Scripting and validation of scripts through correlation, parameterization and web based logic testing (Smoke test, Load test, Endurance) using Controller for a duration further analysis, checking response times, CPU utilizations, memory leaks of servers and other performance characteristics of the website through capturing Perfmon logs and creating PAPAL reports and creating test reports.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization (SEO) to improve the visibility of the website  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, C+, HP LOAD (VUGEN, Controller, etc.) Putty, SQL, Teradata, SoapUI, ControlM, PerfMon, Django Web Framework, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (5 years), CSS (5 years), Django (5 years), HTML (5 years), JavaScript (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS:  • Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Java  • Technologies HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON  • Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, Struts  • Version Control Git, GitHub, SVN, CVS  • Databases Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, DB2, MongoDB  • IDE's/Development Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime Text, NetBeans  • Web Services AWS, RESTful Web Services, SOAP  • Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OS  • Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins  • Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  • Servers WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat  • Testing Tools Selenium and JUnit