Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Stockton, CA To be able to grow and provide my skills and knowledge to this organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Personal Project May 2018 to June 2018 Website Link: https://gadfreyb.sgedu.site/  Created a dynamic website in which users can subscribe. Created custom post type using the WordPress API. Used JavaScript, jQuery and PHP to create a dynamic experience for users with the WordPress Rest API. Also, provide admin controls with the ability to modified pages and provide different privileges for users of the website. Python Developer School Project March 2018 to May 2018 The final project for this class was to use machine learning algorithms to see which would have the best f1 score. We had to process and a significant amount of data to be able to remove noise from the data set. We use python language with the Pandas and Sklearn libraries. To train and test the different algorithms. Java Developer School Project February 2018 to May 2018 The final project for this class was the creation of a game that had animation, physics, scripts, sounds, and networking. This project was pairwise programming. My teammate was responsible for the animation and using scripting. During this project, I had the responsibility of adding a physics engine to our game and creating the network to allow multi-player gameplay. Web Developer Bounce Inc November 2017 to May 2018 For my senior-project, my team was tasked with the creation of a web-based collaborative platform by our client. We use Angular for the front end of the project. For the backend, we use PHP and MyMariaDB for the database. During this project, I was responsible for creating the functionality of the application. As well as connecting the front-end functions to the data base. Also, we used GitHub as our version control system. We use an application called Trello to use us our team board. In which we divided to stories into backlog, in-progress, ready-to-be-approve and resolve. We use slack to communicate with in the team and with the client. Web Developer Calpers (School Project) - Sacramento, CA January 2016 to May 2016 Created a kiosk for CalPERS using PHP, HTML, MySQL and CSS. The product was to allow guest to contact employees via the kiosk. Either through email or phone call. Also, provide a direction to the location of the search employee work station Education B.S in Computer Science California State University, Sacramento Skills CSS (1 year), Git (1 year), HTML (1 year), JAVA (3 years), MySQL (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), Wordpress (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year) Links https://GITHUB.COM/GADFREY13 https://gadfrey13.github.io/portfolio/ Certifications/Licenses Game Engineering May 2018 to Present This certificate is intended to give students an opportunity to explore the science and engineering of computer games, and to prepare students for careers in those fields of computing which utilize or are heavily impacted by advances in computer gaming. These include such areas as video and strategy game development, 3-D graphics, modeling and animation and their support tools, intelligent decision making, specialized user interface hardware, machine learning, and working in interdisciplinary teams. Additional Information SKILLS    Java,JavaScript, React, Python, Pandas, Sklearn, Angular, PHP, Node.js, Git, GitHub, BitBucket, JQuery, Typescript, HTML, CSS, MySQL, WordPress, C#, Unity