Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Chevron Richmond, VA • Around 6 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and coding using Python, Django, Java, Spring.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experienced with full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Proficient in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Java, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experience with WAMP and LAMP environments.  • Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience configuring and developing with different Database servers including MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle and Mongo Db.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Experience includes Database Design, Analysis and Development with MySQL, Oracle 10g/9i, SQL Server.  • Proficient with Apache Web Server 2.0, MySQL 5, CVS, UNIX Shell Script, CSS, XML, Firefox 3.5, IE 6 Browser Compatibility Issues, IIS and Linux.  • Hands on experience programming with C++ PYTHON, DJANGO and AJAX technologies.  • Proficient in using IBM Clear Case, Subversion (SVN), VSS, GIT for Version controlling.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Proficient in Software Design and Development with a solid background in Developing and Experience developing applications in Linux Environment.  • Strong Knowledge of web application security and access control.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer Chevron - Houston, TX November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7,2.5, Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Writing backend programming in Python.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage and Node.js for server side interaction.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used spring, JDBC and JPA at persistence layer (DAO).  • Used Adobe CQ for helping with reusing the components and templates for creating different web pages.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Analyzed digital consumer experiences based on foundation of the Adobe CQ/AEM product suite.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Worked in PostgreSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python, Puppet, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, PostgreSQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, MS SQL Server, Nginix server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Elastic search, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, Mac OS. Python Developer Burning Glass Technologies - Boston, MA May 2016 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system. This is a Customer feedback and complains management system.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix/VB  • Development of Application using Java and Python  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and Soap UI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services  • Data set up using SQL/ORACLE/Teradata.  • Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations  • Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web based logic rather than correlation and parameterization.  • Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analyzing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc.  • Testing in citrix protocol with scripts and scenario  • Execution of batch jobs in Control M, Perfmon and other tools  • Scripting and validation of scripts through correlation, parameterization and web based logic testing (Smoke test, Load test, Endurance) using Controller for a duration further analysis, checking response times, CPU utilizations, memory leaks of servers and other performance characteristics of the website through capturing Perfmon logs and creating PAPAL reports and creating test reports.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization (SEO) to improve the visibility of the website  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, HP LOAD (VUGEN, Controller, etc.) Putty, SQL, SoapUI, ControlM, PerfMon, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Linux. Python Developer HRC Fund Associates - New York, NY April 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Used data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture along with Django's ORM model.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming and used python libraries like Beautiful Soup, Matplotlib, Scipy, NumPy and Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Built Random Forest based models using PySpark on Databricks for predicting profile field prediction.  • Implemented NLP classifier using Keras CNN for faster case resolution of user complaints.  • Developed anomaly detection cronjob on Google Analytics data using Python, Pandas and Jinja2.  • Build a Tensorflow Object Detection transfer learning model for custom dataset of client.  • Built data pipelines and data transformation jobs using Boto, Pandas, Numpy for Google Analytics Data and Amazon Redshift Data.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Design, develop, and deploy engaging web applications using Python.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and pymongo.  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  • Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs, and created User Model for application.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Experienced in using advanced PostgreSQL/MYSQL features like table partitioning and diverse types of oracle indexing. Backup and Restore experience with PostgreSQL/ MYSQL database backups and point in time recovery.  • Developed RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery and Angular JS.    Environment: Python, Django, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS, PostgreSQL, Flask, SciPy, Pandas, Numpy, Backbone JS, Restful Web services, Git, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Linux. Python Developer SunTrust Bank - Atlanta, GA March 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized Pyunit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for Automated Asset Department Reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of project.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML/CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, JIRA, Shell Scripting, Linux, Windows. Education Master's Skills LINUX, RED HAT, MAC, MAC OS Additional Information Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and CSS Bootstrap.  Languages C, C++, Python, Java, JDBC, JNDI, JSP, Servlets, Shell Scripting, Django,  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, PyJamas, Jython, Angular JS, Node JS, Spring, Hibernate  Webserver Apache HTTP webserver, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat  IDE Eclipse, Webstorm, Sublime Text, Brackets, PyCharm, Pystudio, Pyscripter.  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2, Jenkins and Fabric  Databases Oracle, MySQL, SQLite, Cassandra, Redis and mongo DB  Testing Tools Bugzilla, Jasmine, Pyunit, JIRA and Junit  Miscellaneous Git, SVN, CVS    Operating Systems Windows, Red Hat Linux, Mac OS