Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Wayfair Santa Clara, CA ? Extensive 5+ years of experience developing web applications in Python using web framework like Django and Flask.  ? Strong knowledge of OOP (Object Oriented Programming) and applying OO principles in full Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Experienced in Backend applications using Python/Flask/Django and SQL/ PostgreSQL.  ? Good experience in software development in Python (libraries used: NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm.  ? Experience in Python Development and Scientific Programming using NumPy and Pandas in Python for Data Manipulation.  ? Hands-on experience using various Python packages/libraries on data visualization, manipulation, joining data, exploratory data analysis.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL). Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like Django.  ? Good experience with Amazon AWS, EC2 and simple storage service S3.  ? Extensive experience in developing applications by implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular.js, Node.js, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Familiar with XML/JSON based SOAP and REST web services.  ? Proficient in SQL databases MS-SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL database MongoDB.  ? Good analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  ? Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Wayfair - Boston, MA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Gathering requirements and translating the business details into Technical design.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  ? Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like SMTP mail server and web server using Python.  ? Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  ? Generated Python Django forms to maintain a record of online users.  ? Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  ? Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP.  ? Migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Used Django Rest framework for creating REST APIs and interacted with Jira using Jira Rest API.  ? Deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that are the main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  ? Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted on Amazon EC2.  ? Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Django with SQLAlchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes for two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and My-SQL.  ? Wrote and executed various MY-SQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  ? Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  ? Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  ? Involved in organizing meetings to know the needs of clients for the Enterprise solution Implementation.    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, PyCharm, PyDev, AWS, DOM, HTML, CSS, Angular.js, Numpy, Matplotlib, Ajax, JSON, Git, SQL, Agile and Windows. Python Developer The Home Depot - Atlanta, GA June 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Created an entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  ? Involved in Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  ? Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  ? Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  ? Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  ? Used several Python libraries such as wxPython, NumPy and matPlotLib for representation or plotting of Network Analysis.  ? Worked with a team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  ? Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keywords using Python-twitter library.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis and added support for OpenStack.  ? Used PyQt to implement a GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery and Angular.js.  ? Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Python to automate repetitive work.  ? Created Python modules to extract data from external PostgreSQL.  ? Involved in the design, development and testing phases of applications using AGILE methodology.    Environment: Python, Django, PyQt, PyUnit, PyCharm, AWS, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, NumPy, REST, JQuery, JSON, MYSQL, PostgreSQL, SVN, Agile and Windows. Python Developer Caterpillar Financials - Nashville, TN September 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed custom reports using HTML, Python and MySQL.  ? Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  ? Also worked on the Worked on PyCharm - Python IDE for professional Web development with Django framework.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Implemented admin sites to manage database information with Django and MySQL.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MY-SQL.  ? Queried the database queries using Python-MySQL connector and retrieved information using MySQLdb.  ? Developed the application using the Test-Driven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Created web application prototype using JQuery and Angular.js.  ? Worked in an agile development environment.  ? Maintained and updated the application in accordance to the clientele's requirement    Environment: Python, Django, PyQt, PyUnit, PyQuery, PyCHARM, REST, JSON, AWS, DOM, HTML, MySQL, SQL, Agile and Windows. Python Developer Seismic Technologies - IN February 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  ? Built a GC analytic tool using Python, to help clients analyze data and profile risk against a wide spectrum of reinsurance options.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, and JavaScript.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS/HTML framework.  ? Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Performed Unit and system testing.  ? Trained users and provided production support.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills Amazon web services, Django, Git, Html, Javascript, Python, Flask, Subversion, Xml, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Ajax, Dhtml, Web services, Weblogic, Websphere, Java, jquery, ASP, CSS, HTML 5