Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Common Cents New York, NY • Around 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask, AWS, SQL.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm  • Good experience on Hudson/Jenkins, Build Forge for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Performed integration of Code Quality Analysis Techniques like Check styles, Find Bugs and PMD with CI tool Hudson/Jenkins.  • Experience with Spark, CICD pipelines and Jenkins.  • Developed Web-based applications using Django, Python, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, RESTful.  • Working experience with cloud infrastructure of AWS (Amazon Web Services) and computing AMI virtual machines on Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).  • Experience on Have used source control applications like Git, GitHub, Bitbucket for code management.  • Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML/QML based SOAP web services and worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Performed on Integrated data from around 40 different sources and developed data pipelines to load the data into Elasticsearch and Salesforce for the use in targeted e-mail marketing (Stonebranch, AWS, S3, Hive, Elasticsearch, Redshift, Python, Spark, Salesforce), to bring dozens of millions of dollars of additional revenue.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Experience in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using jQuery, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, and HTML.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications, able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra, and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, postgreSQL and MySQL databases  • Developed Cloud Formation templates, also launched AWS Elastic Beanstalk for deploying, monitoring and scaling web applications using different platforms like Docker, Python etc.  • Expertise in AWS Resources like EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Security Groups.  • Have experience with AWS LAMBDA which runs the code with response of events.  • Extensively worked with automation tools like Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) and to implement the End-to-End Automation.  • Good hands on experience with GO Lang and its Built-in concurrency features such as go-routines, channels and select statement.  • Have good experience on working with version controls like Git and GitHub  • Experience in using Tomcat apache servers and Docker containers for deployment.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA  • I have good experience in Slack tool  • Worked closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool).  • Good written and communication skills. Poses capability to interact very closely with wide range of audience such as Engineers, Scientists, Health professionals, Scientists, Professors, Clients, and Vendors Work Experience Python Developer Common Cents - New York, NY January 2018 to Present The convenience you expect, and the service you deserve. Common Cents Store's mission is to exceed our Customers' expectations through Total Customer Commitment. We guarantee Exceptional Friendliness, Clean Stores and Fast Service. It's critical that we listen to our customers any chance we get. Please stop by to tell us about your latest experience.    Responsibilities  • Worked with server-side production code for application those are robust and high volume.  • Developed applications using mix of technologies ( Python, Django, Flask, Pandas, REST and SOLR).  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked on several standard Python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Scipy, Pandas and PyTables etc.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django Frameworks.  • Created a Python based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS.  • Troubleshoot ETL failures and performed manual loads using SQL stored procedures.  • Implemented new metrics on the MedeAnalytics' Software as a Service (SaaS) Patient Access Analytics platform.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and Flask.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.JS, JQuery and JSON.  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Angular's.  • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Involved in various projects related to Data Modeling, System/Data Analysis, Design and Development for both OLTP and Data warehousing environments.    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, Flask, REST, DevOps, Data E, SOLR, Jira, Bugzilla, Pytest,PyChecker, PyLint, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, HTML, CSS, PostGreSQL, Agile, LINUX and Windows. Python Developer ZeniMax Media - Rockville, MD March 2016 to December 2017 ZeniMax Media Inc. is an American video game publisher based in Rockville, Maryland. The company is known for owning id Software, Arkane Studios, MachineGames, Tango Gameworks, publisher Bethesda Softworks with its Bethesda Game Studios and ZeniMax Online Studios. Bethesda softworks LLC released over 20 different titles and various game series in last 33 years.    Responsibilities  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Designed front end using Django Templating language.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used NumPY for Numerical analysis.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Used GIT to resolve and coding the work on python and portlet.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and MySQL.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Involved in monitoring, logging and debugging the code in various environments.  • Gathered all requirement for developing and analyzing requirement of projects.  • Used software development life cycle (SDLC) and agile methodology to implement business logic.    Environment: Python 3.6, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Rest, Django, SQL, Windows. Python Developer Citadel - Greenwich, CT April 2015 to March 2016 Citadel's team stands at the forefront of data analysis and modeling. We analyze historical and current information through statistical and quantitative modeling, as well as predictive analytics, to identify opportunities. We focus on the equity, fixed income, commodities and currency markets globally, concentrating on the United States equity markets.    Responsibilities  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, and JSON to design and develop the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Hands on experience working with pandas and python libraries.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Worked on Amazon Redshift is a fully managed, petabyte-scale data warehouse service in the cloud.  • Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML/QML format.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of PyYAML libraries.  • Written Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developing scalable front-end user interfaces using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS and Mongo DB.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Hands on experience on working with Selenium API.  • Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 3.6/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, Pandas, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting.Fg Python Application Developer AXA XL - Stamford, CT October 2012 to April 2015 AXA XL it's an specialty risk division of AXA, is known for solving complex risks. For mid-sized companies, multinationals and even some inspirational individuals we don't just provide re/insurance, we reinvent it. By combining data-driven insights, leading technology, and the best talent in an agile and inclusive workspace.    Responsibilities  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.  • Formulating the ETL mappings to implement the business logic. Used transformations like lookup, update strategy, expression, filter, router, aggregate, source Qualifier.  • Exposure about ETL batch and the concept of data warehousing.  • Have extensively worked on creating different kinds of maps, graphs etc for analysis of data in Tableau.  • Have experience working on creating calculated fields by joining different kinds of data sets from different data sources in Tableau.  • Designed Tableau Dashboards templates for market reports by Tableau dashboards and pivot tables.  • Created reports in tableau for visualization of the data sets created and tested Impala Connectors.  • Worked on HDFS to store and access huge datasets within Hadoop  • Developed different kind of custom filters and handled pre-defined filters on HBase data using API.  • Developed user interface solutions using a Django web framework. Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs, and Views utilizing Python technologies to build web based applications.  • Developed interfaces using JavaScript, HTML technologies for several web applications to fetch and graphically present required data from database.  • Involved in the complete Software Development life cycle (SDLC) to develop application.  • Developed user interface of the web application using HTML, CSS3, and Bootstrap. Wrote custom user defined functions in JavaScript to validate application functionalities/features.  • Responsible for writing OOP code in Python for server side scripting.  • Wrote code to support model-view-controller (MVC) pattern of Python Django framework in developing several modules for the application.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL, Agile methodology, HTML, Django, bootstrap, JQuery, XML, pandas SQL programming, Tableau, Hadoop, Python programming, and R Programming. Software Developer Metaminds, Hyderbad - IN May 2011 to September 2012 Metaminds is software solution provider based in Hyderabad, India. It provides its services in mobile products, Business consulting and Internet and data platforms. It is associated with large companies like Mercedes-Benz etc.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML  • Wrote PYTHON modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data from database.  • Setup automated corn jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Git for version control.  • Actively participated in system testing, production support and maintenance/patch deployments    Environment: PYTHON, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Eclipse, MS SQL, Windows OS Skills Amazon web services, Django, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Scripting, Xml, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Ajax, Css, Web services Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:    Languages: Python 3.5/2.7, Python with Django, Java, C, SQL, Shell Scripting, Spark  Frameworks: Django, Flask  Databases: Oracle, SQL, SQL Server, MongoDB,  Web Technologies: AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, XML, CSS, Bootstrap  Web Services: SOAP, RESTful  IDES/Tools: PyCharm, Sublime Text, Spyder, NetBeans, Eclipse  Cloud Platforms: Amazon web services, Azure  Operating Systems: Linux, Unix, Windows 10, 08, 07, XP  Python Libraries: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas dataframe  Version Control Systems: Git, GitHub  SDLC: Agile methodologies, scrum framework