Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - PROFESSIONAL EXPEREINCE Chicago, IL • 6 years in developing and designing web-based applications in Python using web framework such as Django.  • Experience of working in Agile Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with good understanding of requirement analysis, Application Life Cycle Management, Creating, developing, testing and deploying applications.  • Experience in using Django framework (MVT framework) for rapid development and pragmatic, clean design. Also, to follow the DRY principle which makes the code reusable.  • Experience in using Authentication modules within Django, making custom modifications according to requirements.  • Strong experience in development of JSON based REST web services in python.  • Experience of using python libraries such as Pandas, Pickle, SciPy, Pyexcel and NumPy for data analysis and building models (Data Modelling) . Also, used ORM libraries for Database access.  • Experience of working with Amazon web services such as EC2, S3, Lambda, RDS, etc.  • Experience in working with relational databases such as PostgreSQL, MYSQL, Oracle, along with some non-relational databases such as MongoDB, CouchDB.  • Experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environment such as PyCharm, Sublime Text, Visual Studio, IntelliJ Python.  • Conducted extensive Joint Application Development Sessions for all Development related issues with stakeholders and SME's from all other technology department.  • Experience in using JIRA tool to monitor the progress of the debugging and error correction.  • Good understanding of CRUD operations such as Create, Read, Update and Delete.  • Familiarity with development practices such as code reviews, unit testing using PyUnit and debugging the application to find bugs  • Experience of working on LINUX environment and use of version control system such as GIT. Work Experience Python Developer PROFESSIONAL EXPEREINCE - Chicago, IL May 2018 to Present Union Bank is a registered trademark and brand name of MUFG Union Bank. It is one of the world's largest leading financial groups. Union bank is a full-service bank committed to serve the financial needs of the individual as well as the commercial clients on the west coast.    Project Description: Project revolves around the revolutionizing the banking experience to 100% digital. Digital banking experience involves digital transactions and changing the interface of the user account control.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Designing and Development of back-end web application in python using Django framework.  • Created Rest API's for response communication using Django framework.  • Wrote python scripts for parsing XML and JSON reports, and MYSQL database queries using python MYSQL connector and MYSQL DB package for Database.  • Utilized Django ORM to database objects. Also, involved in Validation and processing of the files.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Deployed the application into Amazon Ec2 instance and utilized Amazon S3 for storage.  • Used JIRA for project monitoring, creating use cases and bug tracking.  • Worked on Linux/Unix environment.  • Religiously used GIT as a version Control of the Project.  • Worked on Agile Methodology with scrum implementation providing successful deliverables on each sprint.  • Experience with PyUnit, which is Python Unit test framework for unit testing of the application.    Technologies: Python, Django, MySQL, Git, JIRA, Amazon Ec2, S3, Python Developer Beachbody LLC - Santa Monica, CA January 2017 to April 2018 Beachbody LLC is an American multinational corporation that uses direct response infomercials, multi-level marketing, e-commerce and individual sales consultants to sell fitness, weight loss, and muscle building home-exercise videos.    Project Description: I have worked on the development of an application which provides instructions to the customer for fitness goals and provides a proper meal plan (guided by the instructor) which has already been stored into the database based on input provided by the customer about their current health situation.  Responsibilities:    • Actively involved in Designing and Development of web-application in python using Django framework and web technologies such as HTML, CSS  • Contributed in requirement assembling, analyzing project period in recording business requirement by coordinating with other teams and utilizing agile methodologies for scrum implementation.  • Deployed application on Amazon Ec2 instance, along the side used AWS S3 for storage.  • Using Django class-based view, created several forms and templates for handling older management.  • Integrated Django REST framework in the project to make data serialized efficiently.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Good understanding of working large datasets such as Pandas data frames.  • Used Git as a version control for Python source code.  • Created modules in Python to connect to MongoDB and performing CRUD operations with MongoDB.  • Responsible for Debugging and troubleshooting of the application.    Technologies: Python, Django, Git, AWS, Python Developer Honeywell - Phoenix, AZ August 2015 to December 2016 Project Description: I was a part of a team where we were developing Python Django application for supply chain management system. The integral functionality of the application was to help maintain the inventory management and helps order new inventory when required.    Responsibilities:  • Contributed in all the stages of software development life-Cycle starting from requirement such as designing, development, implementation and testing of the application.  • Used Django framework for designing and development of the application.  • Utilized Django's API along for performing data manipulation.  • Experience of using Pandas for high-performance while dealing with large datasets.  • Successfully implemented Business logic, performed data exchange and graphics were created using Python and Django.  • Worked on JSON based REST Web Services.  • Responsible for Debugging a project monitored on JIRA.  • Worked with MySQL database and handled its connection with application using Django ORM.  • Good knowledge of working on Linux/Unix environment.    Technologies: Python, Django, JIRA, JSON, Rest Web Servicers Backend Developer ZapBuild - Mohali, Punjab October 2013 to June 2015 Zapbuild is an IT consulting and services provider, providing end-to-end consulting for global clients. Zapbuild offers service in social networking, eCommerce, real estate, e-learning and learning management system, daily deals and group buying applications, SAAS, CRM, ERP, Smartphone applications, desktop applications, migration, search engine creation.    Project Description: I was a part of team where we were developing an in-house application for Employee Management using Python and Django which keep all the information of employees are working, their designation, clock in, clock out time etc.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Implemented code in Python to review and manipulate the data.  • Development multi-page application from beginning to end.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website sing HTML, CSS.  • Profiled code for optimization and memory management.  • Worked on Agile Methodology.  • Used GIT as version control.    Technologies: Python, GIT, Agile, MYSQL, Sublime-text. Skills DATABASE (5 years), DJANGO (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), MYSQL (4 years), Git (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Language Python, JAVA  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Bootstrap  Web Framework Django, Flask  Web Services REST  Database MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Cassandra  Development Tools PyCharm, Sublime, Visual Studio, Jira, Git, IntelliJ  Software Methodology Agile (Scrum)