Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - IPFS, KS, MISSOURI Missouri City, TX ? Around 8 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask, AWS, SQL.  ? Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm  ? Good experience on Hudson/Jenkins, Build Forge for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  ? Performed integration of Code Quality Analysis Techniques like Check styles, Find Bugs and PMD with CI tool Hudson/Jenkins.  ? Experience with Spark, CICD pipelines and Jenkins.  ? Developed Web-based applications using Django, Python, XML, CSS, HTML, Angular 2/4, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, RESTful.  ? Working experience with cloud infrastructure of AWS (Amazon Web Services) and computing AMI virtual machines on Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).  ? Experience on Have used source control applications like Git, GitHub, Bitbucket for code management.  ? Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML/QML based SOAP web services and worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Sublime Text and PyCharm.  ? Performed on Integrated data from around 40 different sources and developed data pipelines to load the data into Elasticsearch and Salesforce for the use in targeted e-mail marketing (Stonebranch, AWS, S3, Hive, Elasticsearch, Redshift, Python, Spark, Salesforce), to bring dozens of millions of dollars of additional revenue.  ? Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  ? Experience in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using jQuery, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites.  ? Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, and HTML.  ? Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications, able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  ? Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra, and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, postgreSQL and MySQL databases  ? Developed Cloud Formation templates, also launched AWS Elastic Beanstalk for deploying, monitoring and scaling web applications using different platforms like Docker, Python etc.  ? Expertise in AWS Resources like EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Security Groups.  ? Have experience with AWS LAMBDA which runs the code with response of events.  ? Extensively worked with automation tools like Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) and to implement the End-to-End Automation.  ? Good hands on experience with GO Lang and its Built-in concurrency features such as go-routines, channels and select statement.  ? Have good experience on working with version controls like Git and GitHub  ? Experience in using Tomcat apache servers and Docker containers for deployment.  ? Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA  ? Worked closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  ? Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool).  ? Good written and communication skills. Poses capability to interact very closely with wide range of audience such as Engineers, Scientists, Health professionals, Scientists, Professors, Clients, and Vendors Work Experience Python Developer IPFS, KS, MISSOURI November 2017 to Present Description: IPFS is a one of the largest privately-owned company in terms of Financing solutions. The company has developed innovative services and flexible programs to help businesses free up cash flow and obtain the insurance security & coverage. Apart from this the company has an interest in financial services.  Responsibilities  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and Developed REST Webservices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication.  ? Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  ? Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  ? Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file. Agi using Angular 2.  ? Designed, developed and tested the Store management application using HTML, JavaScript, PHP and PostgreSQL.  ? Web development including standardizing the toolsets used from Eclipse to use Git for source control.  ? Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Developed data analytic tools using Python Pandas, and visualizations using Matplotlib and Bokeh.  ? Worked on CRUD permissions using MySQL and presented them with the beautiful wxPython widgets.  ? Created new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development.  ? Worked on various Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Anaconda Spyder.  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy, SciPy and SQL alchemy.  ? Created Restful micro services utilizing Flask and Django and sent on AWS servers utilizing EBS and EC2.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML/QML documents and load the data in database.  ? Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev, Sublime text.  ? Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript Object-to-XML.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Used Spark for interactive queries, processing of streaming data and integration with popular NoSQL database for huge volume of data  ? Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD, and Python  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used.  ? Migration of data validation code from the legacy mainframe systems to ETL framework using informatica workflows and shell scripts.  ? Developed stored procedures, functions and packages for ETL Development.  ? Performed the performance evaluation of the ETL for full load cycle.  ? Critiqued the source data coming from different sources (Oracle, DB2, XML, Flat files) and worked on developing ETL mappings  ? Used testing like JIRA for bug tracking.  ? Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views.  ? Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angular 4, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  ? Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular 2/4 and jQuery.  ? Use of Agile Rally for project management like project iteration etc.  ? Used Agile rally for scheduling release and other QA activites.  ? Worked on WAMP (Windows, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML,QML, JavaScript, GO Lang, AJAX, Webserver, wxPython , matplotlib, NumPy , PyDev, PostgreSQL, Apache, Bootstrap, Flask, Oracle, PL/SQL, MySQL, MS-Sql, , Web Services, SOAP, REST, PyCharm, Windows, Linux. Python Developer Q2 E BANKING - Austin, TX January 2016 to November 2017 Description: Q2 is a secure, cloud-based digital banking solutions company headquartered in Austin, Texas. Since 2004. Our digital banking solutions for deposits, money movement, lending, leasing, security and fraud enable financial institutions to deliver a better financial experience to their account holders. It also benefit from actionable data analytics and access to open technology tools.  Responsibilities  ? Worked on the development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypieweb Framework using Git, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular 2, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.  ? Used Github for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers, and deploying in Mesos.  ? Worked on Hudson/Jenkins for continuous integration (CI) server often used to automate building, testing and deploying Python applications.  ? Involved in the complete software development lifecycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  ? Added several options to the application to choose algorithm for data and address generation.  ? Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) on Amazon EC2.  ? Used AWS S3 for simple web services interface that you can use to store and retrieve any amount of data, at any time, from anywhere on the web.  ? Hands on Experience in AWS Cloud in various AWS Services such as Route 53 Domain configuration.  ? Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2.  ? Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud watch.  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy, SciPy and SQL Alchemy.  ? Hands on experience with GUI tool kit like PyQt.  ? Critiqued the source data coming from different sources (Oracle, DB2, XML, Flat files) and worked on developing ETL mappings  ? The Unit test was improved and the existing ones were also fixed.  ? Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  ? Good analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  Environment: Python, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, JavaScript, MYSQL, Django, Django Tastypie, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, SQL Alchemy, SQL, AWS, Apache Web Server, Git. Python Developer Citadel - Greenwich, CT August 2014 to December 2015 Description: Citadel's team stands at the forefront of data analysis and modeling. We analyze historical and current information through statistical and quantitative modeling, as well as predictive analytics, to identify opportunities. We focus on the equity, fixed income, commodities and currency markets globally, concentrating on the United States equity markets.    Responsibilities  ? Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, and JSON to design and develop the user interface of the website.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  ? Hands on experience working with pandas and python libraries.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Worked on Amazon Redshift is a fully managed, petabyte-scale data warehouse service in the cloud.  ? Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.  ? Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  ? Used GIT version control and deployed project.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML/QML format.  ? Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of PyYAML libraries.  ? Written Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  ? Developing scalable front-end user interfaces using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS and Mongo DB.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Hands on experience on working with Selenium API.  ? Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  ? Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  ? Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  ? Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 3.6/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, Pandas, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting.Fg Python Application Developer AXA XL - Stamford, CT October 2012 to June 2014 Description: AXA XL it's an specialty risk division of AXA, is known for solving complex risks. For mid-sized companies, multinationals and even some inspirational individuals we don't just provide re/insurance, we reinvent it. By combining data-driven insights, leading technology, and the best talent in an agile and inclusive workspace.  Responsibilities  ? Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  ? Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.  ? Formulating the ETL mappings to implement the business logic. Used transformations like lookup, update strategy, expression, filter, router, aggregate, source Qualifier.  ? Exposure about ETL batch and the concept of data warehousing.  ? Have extensively worked on creating different kinds of maps, graphs etc for analysis of data in Tableau.  ? Have experience working on creating calculated fields by joining different kinds of data sets from different data sources in Tableau.  ? Designed Tableau Dashboards templates for market reports by Tableau dashboards and pivot tables.  ? Created reports in tableau for visualization of the data sets created and tested Impala Connectors.  ? Worked on HDFS to store and access huge datasets within Hadoop  ? Developed different kind of custom filters and handled pre-defined filters on HBase data using API.  ? Developed user interface solutions using a Django web framework. Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs, and Views utilizing Python technologies to build web based applications.  ? Developed interfaces using JavaScript, HTML technologies for several web applications to fetch and graphically present required data from database.  ? Involved in the complete Software Development life cycle (SDLC) to develop application.  ? Developed user interface of the web application using HTML, CSS3, and Bootstrap. Wrote custom user defined functions in JavaScript to validate application functionalities/features.  ? Responsible for writing OOP code in Python for server side scripting.  ? Wrote code to support model-view-controller (MVC) pattern of Python Django framework in developing several modules for the application.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL, Agile methodology, HTML, Django, bootstrap, JQuery, XML, pandas SQL programming, Tableau, Hadoop, Python programming, and R Programming. Software Developer Metaminds, Hyderbad - IN May 2011 to September 2012 Description: Metaminds is software solution provider based in Hyderabad, India. It provides its services in mobile products, Business consulting and Internet and data platforms. It is associated with large companies like Mercedes-Benz etc.  Responsibilities  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and jQuery.  ? Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML  ? Wrote PYTHON modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  ? Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data from database.  ? Setup automated corn jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database.  ? Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  ? Used Git for version control.  ? Actively participated in system testing, production support and maintenance/patch deployments  Environment: PYTHON, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Eclipse, MS SQL, Windows OS Skills Amazon web services, Django, Git, Html, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Json, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Scripting, Xml, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Ajax, Css Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    Languages Python 3.5/2.7, Python with Django, Java, C, SQL, Shell Scripting, Spark  Frameworks Django, Flask  Databases Oracle, SQL, SQL Server, MongoDB,  Web Technologies AJAX, JSON, Angular 2/4, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, XML, Angular.JS, CSS, Bootstrap  Web Services SOAP, RESTful  IDES/Tools PyCharm, Sublime Text, Spyder, NetBeans, Eclipse  Cloud Platforms Amazon web services, Azure  Operating Systems Linux, Unix, Windows 10, 08, 07, XP  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas dataframe  Version Control Systems Git, GitHub  SDLC Agile methodologies, scrum framework