Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer Dallas, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Quadreg Inc June 2018 to Present Description: Growing Social is a web based social media scheduling and marketing application. The tool  uses Machine Learning techniques to grow influencers' accounts.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the development of the application (using Python 3, HTML5, CSS3)  ? Used Django to communicate with the database  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse datasets and load data into the database  ? Manipulated time series with Pandas NLP Teaching Assistant University Of Texas At Dallas - Dallas, TX August 2018 to November 2018 Description: The University Of Texas At Dallas offers an elective undergraduate course for seniors  interested in Natural Language Processing (NLP).    Responsibilities:  ? Assisted students with Python programming and algorithm optimization  ? Taught students how to retrieve and extract data  ? Covered topics like parse trees, morphology, machine translation, and sentiment analysis Swift Developer City Of Richardson January 2018 to May 2018 Description: Road Anomaly Detection is a mobile application (an external extension of the MyRichardson App) that aids both city workers and city residents by offering a full-service pothole  identification solution.    Responsibilities:  ? Created wireframes and mockups to capture the look and feel of the application  ? Used CoreMotion to gather accelerometer, gyroscope, and magnetometer information  ? Created an algorithm that identified potholes within the city limits (geofencing)  ? Worked with the testing team to create the test plan and test cases Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University Of Texas at Dallas Skills MYSQL, CSS, PHP, Python, SQL, PostgresSQL, Swift, Java, HTML, Django, Flask, Gensim, Sklearn, SpaCy, CocoaTouch, Stanford CoreNLP, nltk, TextBlob, Pandas, Sketch, AdobeXD