Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Blackboard Insurance New York, NY ? 7 years of experience in Web/Application Development as a Python Developer in analytical programming using python with skills in analysis, design, development, testing and deploying software applications.  ? Experience in application development using PYTHON, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Oracle, MySQL, NoSQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite.  ? Experience with Django, flask, a high - level Python Web framework.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Strong knowledge of Object-Oriented Design and Programming concepts and Experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.  ? Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark and No-SQL databases like HBase and MongoDB.  ? Hands on experience in Waterfall, Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  ? Pleasant experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, emacs.  ? Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like IDLE, PyCharm, Eclipse, Net Beans, PyStudio and Sublime Text.  ? Basic knowledge on Rest API and JSON Parsing, jQuery and Angular JS.  ? Pleasant experience in Shell Scripting, UNIX and Linux.  ? Experience with MATLAB for data analysis.  ? Good Knowledge Objected Oriented Concepts, Data Structures and Design patterns. understand and experienced with the following; Plone, Pyramid, Django, Angular PostgreSQL, ZODB, Key Value Stores, CouchDB, Couchbase, Linux, Nginx, Varnish, ReactJS and Odoo.  ? Good knowledge about frameworks such as Bootstrap and Foundation.  ? Having Proficiency in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MySQL and MSSQL Server.  ? Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  ? Good knowledge of web services using SOAP, REST protocols.  ? Good Knowledge of Waterfall and Agile methodologies and experienced on this.  ? Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like Django.  ? Pleasant experience in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR, S3 and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  ? Pleasant experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  ? Strong understanding and experience in AWS EC2, network management and datacenter operations.  ? Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu Linux and UNIX.  ? Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications  ? Very strong in full life cycle application development experience.  ? Good analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Work Experience Python Developer Blackboard Insurance - New York, NY June 2018 to Present Responsibility: -    ? Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and jQuery.  ? Python/Django based web application, Postgre SQLDB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  ? Added support for Apache web server and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Involved in design, implementation and modifying the Python code and MySQL database schema on-the back end.  ? Developed user friendly and sophisticated graphical representation of the catalogue of items that would be configured for a piece of equipment.  ? Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like NumPy, matplotlib.  ? Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and UNIX shell scripting.  ? Python Object Oriented Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  ? Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  ? Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  ? Monitoring Python scripts run as daemons in the UNIX/Linux system background to collect trigger and feed arrival information. Helped calculating SLA misses.  ? Work on SCR's (source change request). involved working on Perl, Python and Shell Scripting.  ? Created Python/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings. Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  ? Ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation. Python Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC July 2015 to May 2018 Responsibility: -    ? Involved in requirements gathering, system design, analysis, implementation and setting up the development environment.  ? Extensively used JAVA8 Streams, Lambda Functions, Predicates, Functional Interfaces, Method References, Filters, Collections and default methods.  ? Involved in the development of the UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Ext JS, Angular JS and customized Data Tables and High charts into Angular JS Directives.  ? Extensively involved in coding with AngularJS to add functionalities and effects like Accordion, Infinite Scroll bar, Slider bar, Draggle/Droppable, Resizable, Progress bar.  ? Hands on experience with MongoDB Installation, Configuring, Monitoring and Designing Shared Environment.  ? Implemented a responsive web design using Bootstrap and developed Microservices for different level of layers in flow of network.  ? Worked on Espresso Framework and used internally for developing the services with a quick and easy view of UI.  ? Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  ? Migrating the application to Cloud environment using the Amazon web services- EC2, S3 and various services of AWS.  ? Worked in Amazon Web Services including migrating infrastructure to AWS cloud and maintenance of production web infrastructure.  ? Extensive use of Spring Data in design and development of user interfaces and worked with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JSON in UI pages.  ? Involved in implementation of application using conventional design practices (Web-Service Oriented Architecture, MVC-Model View Controller).  ? Extensively used the Spring framework implemented upon the MVC design pattern and developed RESTful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  ? Extensively used Hibernate Relational mappings (One-To-Many, Many-To-Many) in the secondary project and Used GitHub extensively as versioning tool and used Maven for automated building of projects.  ? Implemented functionality like searching, filtering, sorting, validating using Angular JS and JavaScript.  ? Extensively worked on and having great exposure of Hibernate Cache, Query, Criteria and Transactions in secondary project.  ? Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of spring boot.  ? Good hands on experience in designing and developing J2EE compliant systems using IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, My Eclipse and RAD.  ? Created the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  ? Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage and Involved in building applications using React JS by building re-usable UI Components.  ? Used Maven as build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with SVN, Jenkins, JMeter and Jenkins Jobs. Python Developer City Bank - New York, NY March 2013 to June 2015 Responsibility: -  ? Participated in front-end development using Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS and bootstrap.  ? Experience with Requests, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development  ? Developed python scripting to automate parameter upload into Oracle Database from Excel.  ? Used python to generate reports for management, showing the quality of data migration and migration data load success percentage overtime, to understand the area of improvement.  ? Have Knowledge of multi-threading, multi-processing, asynchronous, GIL in python.  ? Have experience in JWT based authentication for RESTFUL API.  ? Deployed RESTFUL API application in NGINX AND UWSGI in LINUX and AWS EC2 instance.  ? Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB.  ? Help the bank and functional product consultant on the gap, fitment and changes.  ? All the existing REST API are built in Flask, for future project, where the number of users is more, we are implementing in Django REST API framework, recently done POC for feasibility.  ? Worked on Django in built library Testcase library for continuous integration and also Django ORM (object relational mapper)  ? Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python.  ? Done POC for automation configuration using Docker Containers for test environment, since the number of test environment increased drastically post go live. We have test environment one for daily EOD, one for finance testing, one for fast paced EOD, one for load testing. in order to maintain consistent with configuration and build version across all test environments, we have used Docker. All our environment is in LINUX.  ? Wrote python program for functional requirement like SBA (Small Business Administration loans) to determine interest from date and interest to date, for interface extract to Colson Services Corp. and python program for billing validation for consumer and commercial loans.  ? Used bulk collections for better performance and easy retrieval of data, by reducing context switching between SQL and PL/SQL engines.  ? Created database objects like tables, views, procedures, functions, dynamic SQL and packages using PL/SQL developer.  ? Developed PL/SQL procedure to merge tables, when we are integrating commercial loans with consumer loans.  ? Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python.  ? Responsibilities involved preparing technical design document, development and support for defects raised out of testing (during unit and UAT testing) for following functionalities of US Banking such as SBAL, Syndication, fees, backdating of payments, Backdating of parameters setup, Loan Extension and Multiple view functionality. Education Master's Skills Javascript, Java, J2Ee, Angularjs, Spring, Java J2Ee, JSP, Hibernate, Python (6 years), Spring (4 years), Mongo DB (5 years), Scrum (5 years), AWS (5 years), Spark (5 years), Scala (5 years), jenkins (4 years), Angular, Rest, Soap, JEE, MVC