Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - T-mobile Atlanta, GA • Over 7 Years of combined work experience in Analysis, Design, Web Application Development, Management and Implementation of various stand alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Extensive experience in Text Analytics, developing different Statistical Machine Learning, Data Mining solutions to various business problems and generating data visualizations using R, Python and Tableau.  • Experience in Server infrastructure development on Gateway, ELB, Auto Scaling, DynamoDB, Elasticsearch, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Kinesis, Cloud Watch, ECS.  • Good experience in Python, Django, Flask, Pyramid, Ansible, Docker, CI/CD  • Experience in implementing server side technologies with RESTful APIs and MVC/MVT design patterns using Django/Flask frameworks.  • Experience with Amazon SQS, and Amazon Web Services like EC2, Redshift and S3.Familiar with REST and AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EMR for improved efficiency of Storage and Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, Oracle and NoSQL.  • Experienced in writing PERL script to extract data from text files, web automation and converting the file formats.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, AWS, WSGI, PostgreSQL, Redis, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, and XML.  • Good understanding and knowledge of Apache Airflow.  • Hands on Apache Spark jobs using Scala in test environment for faster data processing and used Spark SQL for queryin.  • Experience in version control systems using CVS, SVN and Git/GitHub and issue tracking tools like Jira and Bugzilla.  • Experience in developing Single page Application using React Redux and Flux architectures.  • Extensive experience in designing MongoDB multi-sharded cluster and monitoring with MMS.  • Experience in using Docker and Amazon web services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tool such as Ansible.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, JavaScript, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP), and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Hands-on experience in developing integration with Elastic search in any of the programming languages like JAVA and JavaScript. Having knowledge of advance reporting using Elastic search and Node JS.  • Expert knowledge and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and NoSQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra, HBase.  • Experience with Web Services(SOAP, REST). Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Amazon EC2/S3.  • Hands-on experience in UNIX, and Linux Kernels.  • Experience in design and manage API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Experience with Configuring AWS EC2 instances, EMR cluster with S3buckets, Auto-Scaling groups and CloudWatch.  • Involved in entire life cycle of the projects including design, development, and deployment, testing, implementation and support.  • Familiar with REST and AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EMR for improved efficiency of Storage and Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, Oracle and NoSQL.  • A Self-starter with a positive attitude, willingness to learn new concepts and acceptance of challenges. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer T-mobile - Atlanta, GA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Experienced in ORM programming in converting data between incompatible type systems in OOP languages.  • Developed flask Restful API endpoints for accessing through UI and uploading ETL data.  • Contribute to major development initiatives with codebases utilizing Python, Django, R, MySQL, MongoDB, jQuery and React.  • Work with multiple team to develop services and coordinate releases.  • Used PHP as an HTML embedded scripting language, in front end web development.  • Prepare Test scripts for different applications using QTP & Selenium  • Run a Regression test on Selenium after every build.  • Automation of internal web application through Selenium 2 WebDriver.  • Performed Compatibility testing of applications for dynamic and static content of browsers using HTML Ids and XPath in Selenium.  • Developed ETL (Extract Transform Load) software for DB2 columnar database fact and dimension tables.  • Develop data models for applications, metadata tables, views or related database structures.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWSarchitecture.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQLconnector and MySQLdb package.  • Used NoSQL database Apache Cassandra to load the data in database.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and Mat PlotLib.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS andJavaScript.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, MongoDB, Selenium, Amazon Aws, Pandas, Java, JQuery, Bootstrap, MySQL, Linux, Ajax, Java Script, Apache, Cassandra, HTML5 and CSS. Python Developer Health Care Service Corporation August 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities  • Assist in designing and developing a scalable recommendation platform that can be used by various systems/application  • Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  • Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to MySQL.  • Configuration of linux server for PHP and Python applications along with deployments.  • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Experience with Cloud services like AWS.  • Configured and monitored distributed and multi-platform servers using chef. Defined chef Server and workstation to manage and configure nodes.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Developed Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams, Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python and Java script.  • Developed the frontend for interaction by using the Django framework.  • Worked with version controlling system CVS and GIT.  • Created Data layer in MYSQL and extracted, loaded data using Python scripts.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked extensively on developing a shell-script which automates the packaging of the project and deploys it from Jenkins to the production server when the project is pushed to the GitLab.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system  • Created Chef roles for different Applications and services and also to spin in different environments.  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.    Environment: Python, Django, PHP, HTML5, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Git, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Cox Automotive - New Hyde Park, NY July 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Effectively followed Agile Software Development for developing the application  • Involved in preparing Technical requirements and Business requirement documents and translated business rules into business component modules.  • Convert existing PERL scripts into Python web services.  • Designed User Interfaces using BackboneJS, ReactJS, JQuery, Bootstrap, JavaScript, CSS, XML and HTML.  • Implemented mapStateToProps, mapDispatchToProps for the interactions between Redux and React.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Designed web screens for various modules using, HTML, DHTML and CSS and used JavaScript client side validation.  • Used Backbone Js as the development framework to build the User Interface.  • Integrated multiple data sources and databases into one system  • Developed dynamic Django and flask web apps utilizing CSS, HTML5, Javascript and MySQL  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Involved in the CI/CD pipeline management for managing the weekly releases.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Developed Pig functions to preprocess the data for analysis.  • Developed Spark scripts by using Python shell commands as per the requirement.  • Created a highly-scalable, distributed system for running Web applications and Web services by working with architects and developers and ensuring the implementation of Restful Web services and API design.  • Worked Integration of Amazon Web Services AWS with other applications infrastructure.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Django-Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Checked status of deployed applications & created weekly reports needed by different teams.    Environment: Python, Bootstrap, SOAP, REST, NodeJS, AWS, Django REST, MULESOFT, Flask, Django, JBoss, PyCharm, Oracle, XML, Java Script, CSS, HTML, GIT, perl Softwa Developer Florida Blue - Jacksonville, FL January 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL  • Developed views and templates with Python OOD to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Written transformations and actions on data frames, used Spark SQL on data frames to access hive tables into spark for faster processing of data.  • Used REST based microservices with REST template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed the UI for the client.  • Developing server based web application to determine patient journey using Flask.  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development with MySQL.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, Postgre SQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  • Image manipulation backend services for real time use as RESTful API  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL alchemy.  • Performed debugging and troubleshooting the web applications using Git as a version-controlling tool to collaborate and coordinate with the team members  • Development of Python APIs to dump the structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Worked on Application servers like Weblogic and Apache Tomcat.  • Created a Single Page Application module using Angular JS to manage payee list for customers. Developed AngularJs controller's services, factories, and custom directives.    Environment:- Python, Django, XML,chef, Java, AWS, Kafka, Angularjs, CSS,PostgreSQL, MySQL, JSON, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Spark agile, Microservices, Restfull , UNIX and Windows. Education B.S in Computer Science Osmania University 2011 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License