Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Januaray New York, NY ? 6 years of experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based platform, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Excellent communication skills with Several Appreciations from clients.  ? Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, testing and Implementation and support.  ? Databases Like IBM DB2, MongoDB  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, , JavaScript and Jquery.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer New York Life Insurance - New York, NY 2014 to Present New York Life Insurance - New York, NY    Project Description: The aim of the project was to reduce cost and optimize using open source python libraries.    Responsibilities:  ? Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  ? Analyzed promotions given to customer on Telemar applications  ? Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  ? Prepared and analyzed reports using python libraries.  ? Used UnitTest framework for calculations of promotion codes for customer  ? Performed Source system analysis to understand the sources and data flow.  ? Analyzing the source data coming from different sources (SQL Server, Oracle, Sales force and also from flat files like Access and Excel) and working with business users and developers to develop the Model.  ? Designed and Developed DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  ? Worked with pre and post sessions, and extracted data in Excel. Use of Use of HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  ? Involved in Business requirements, Data analysis, and System design meetings.  ? Used Pandas ( Python library) for Stastiscal Analysis. Python Developer American International Group - New York, NY October 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Worked with team of developers on python applications for RISK management and use of HTML and DHTML.  ? Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  ? Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  ? Automated data extraction process from legacy system and used 'Nose' Testing framework with assertion module to testing many automated process.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, testing and Implementation and support.  ? Use of Databases Like IBM DB2, MongoDB  ? Thoroughly used UnitTest python library for testing many python programs and block of codes.  ? Also have rich experience on testing REST Full API like Twilio, Facebook, Twitter. Python Developer Cisco - New York, NY August 2011 to September 2012 Project: Core banking system (CBS)    Project Responsibilities:  ? Wrote many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  ? Used Thales theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  ? Applied EMV card algorithms to system via python programs.  ? Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  ? Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Deployed Engineering bill of material (EBOM) on cloud based platform (Heroku) and to automate calculation of items cost from different source of database.  ? Proficient in Software Design and Development with a solid background in Developing.  ? Strong Knowledge of web application security, access control and used 'Nose' Testing framework.  ? web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP and C++. Python Developer Olah Healthcare - Columbus, OH March 2009 to July 2011 Project Description:  Card Management System (CMS) - CMS system can issue the smart cards, maintain the smart cards while in use and finally take the smart cards out of use (EOL). Chip/smart cards provide the foundation for secure electronic identity, and can be used to control access to facilities, networks or computers    Project Responsibilities:  ? Web based application developed for creating Debit card numbers with CVV & PVV.  ? Tracked ATM transaction faults from CMS application.  ? Generated new card numbers based upon Thales Theorem.  ? Web based application was provided to the client to manage CMS bulk data in manage through ? Python application to parse XML and CSV format.  ? Use of Python Framework Django and Flask.  ? Use of Unit testing and Integration testing. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science 2008 Additional Information SKILLS: Primary Languages: Python  Python Automation Testing: UnitTest, Nose  Python Packages: JSON, CSV, XML, XLS  Python Framework: Django and Flask  Source version Control: GIT  Database: Sqlite3, IBM DB2, MongoDB  Operating System: Linux (Ubuntu), Apple Mac (Leopard, Lion, Mountain), IBM System I  Continuous Integration/Deployment: Jenkins  Software Development Lifecycle: Agile Methodology, Scrum framework.  Ticketing System: BMC Remedy, JIRA