Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Cables Labs, Co Denver, CO ? 9 years of experience as a Web Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask and C++.  ? Working on Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework, and Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  ? Utilize REST and AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EMR for improved efficiency of Storage and Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, Oracle and NoSQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra, Oracle. Expertise in SQL stored queries.  ? Knowledge on analyzing very large, complex, multi-dimensional data sets and developing analytic solutions, experience in predictive analytics using Python.  ? In Machine learning background and skills in data science, applied research and heavy-duty coding Working on with Python programming and Python libraries for data science included in the Anaconda distribution including NumPy, pandas. python packages like, SciPy, tables etc.  ? Using to Data migration Understanding of the entire implementation and how to implement\manage the overall project plan.  ? Good Knowledge on engineers for building Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Deep Learning capabilities in the Enterprise Services Platform.  ? Utilize UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  ? Designing a Training Platform to support modern day Data Scientists. Help our data scientists make sense of the data using the latest training techniques.  ? Designing Data ingestion, processing, persistence, management at scale. 10+PB  ? run the operations of a Machine learning project and are responsible for managing the infrastructure and data pipelines needed to bring code to production  ? Working on design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data t migration Ables into HTTP- serializable JSON strings  ? INVOLVED IN Data Migration Team Intimate understanding of data profiling, cleansing, transformation, and migration techniques.  ? Strong expertise in development of web-based applications using Python, Flask, Dojo, XML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and jQuery, J2EE  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Good experience in performing operations such as CRUD operations and writing complex queries with Oracle 10g/11g.  ? Expertise in full life cycle application development and good experience in Unit testing and Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior driven Development.  ? Explosive on different operating systems-windows, Linux, UNIX, and Mac also strong development experience on Linux based operating systems such as Ubuntu, Red Hat and CentOS.  ? Natural Language Processing, Chatbot, Text parsing, Sentiment Analysis. We have plans to build some exciting customer experiences based on these cutting-edge techniques.  ? Develop project deployment using Google Cloud/Jenkins, Elastic Search and using web Services like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Designing the right set of high-performance computes like GPUs, TPUs etc to support the AI activities.  ? Knowledge on Artificial Intelligence Python has many image intensive libraries like Python Im AI aging Library, VTK and Maya 3D Visualization Toolkits, Numeric Python, Scientific Python and many other tools available for numeric and scientific applications.  ? Extensive knowledge and experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS & PowerShell.  ? Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Kafka.  ? Good explosive on scalable environment in Agile/SCRUM methodologies Preparing Test Cases using TDD (test driven development) and BDD (behavior driven development) approach using R Spec/Cucumber on multiple platforms like Linux, Mac and Windows.  ? Generated Python Post Grew SQL Forms to record data of online users and used Python and Post Grew SQL creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django, and HTML.  ? Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), strong experience in data engineering, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, Spyder and Visual Studio,pytest mypy, flake.  ? Good Knowledge on Oracle DBA, RAC, APPS, and OOAD CONCEPTS.  ? Experienced in designing configuration, and (AWS) for applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, SQS, IAM), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  ? Experienced in developing scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell scripting.  ? Proficient in developing web-based applications using PHP, MYSQL, Flask, Jinja, HTML, XML, JSON, CSS, Java Script & AJAX. Experience with Puppet deployment Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Cables Labs, Co July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  ? Experience with working on Linux server & Used PyGtk, WxPython python libraries.  ? Worked on Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  ? Explains eBay VP of engineering Japjit Tulsi, Machine learning engineers must be able to straddle the line between knowing the mathematics and coding the mathematics.  ? Experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and Developed REST Webservices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication.  ? Implemented Docker containers to create images of the applications and dynamically provision slaves to Jenkins CI/CD pipelines.  ? Experience with different IDE's like Sublime Text, Jet Brains PyCharm and Visual Studio pytest mypy, flake.  ? Accountable Data Migration Team Create data enrichment reports, routines, strategy, and manage data cleansing effort  ? Good experience Project management on PushMo ,JIRA.,Quire,Trello, Zoho Project  ? WORKING on SDK in open source in python with dig in depeer.  ? Esperance on SDK Installation process in python.  ? Good experience on Write reusable and testable code.  ? Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  ? Used Django framework to develop the application and used Python modules such as requests, urlib, and urlib2 for web crawling.  ? As data migration developer Define analysis reporting requirements for data enrichment  ? Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, Cloud Formation.  ? Working on Pysal release management using to prepare the release, MAKE Dismuke a source dist. And test locally.  ? Stored the data in the form of JSON structure-based documents, stored in a collection using MongoDB. Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  ? Good experience on Release management is the process of managing, planning, scheduling and controlling a software build through different stages and environments; including testing and deploying software releases.  ? Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  Environment: Python, Bootstrap, Agile, Django, Web Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Linux, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Jira, Eclipse, WebLogic, GitHub, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Xml. Sr. Python Developer Illumina, CA May 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on development of backend services using Python, SQL and Linux.  ? Created many API's for scrum project which involves creating and maintaining projects in an organization. and developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Writing JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional quality Developed framework using Java.  ? Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Working on Implementing Roles and Permissions in Ruby on Rails. As ruby developer requirement of web applications is the ability to specify roles and permissions.  ? Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  ? Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and jQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  ? Working on Project Management using Jira,Quire,Trello develops project.  ? Experience on Automate provisioning and auditing of AWS firefighter access roles from JIRA tickets  ? Good Knowledge on Automate provisioning of users into existing AWS roles from JIRA tickets  ? Create framework in AWS for automating fulfillment of request from JIRA  ? Project management provisioning of custom IAM roles from JIRA tickets,and realse management CSC Cloud DevOps.  ? Project Management Automate modification of security groups from JIRA tickets  ? In python A factory for a Feature Requester implementation taking the sdk key and config  ? Experience API give permission to LAMBDA to Details security purpose.  ? Knowledge on Python SDK, users are simply dictionaries  ? Automation of provisioning/modification of route tables and routes from JIRA Tickets  ? Automation of provisioning/modification of VPN connections from JIRA Tickets.  Environment: Python, Bootstrap, Agile, Django, Web Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Linux, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Jira, Git, database access, Eclipse, WebLogic, GitHub, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Xml. Sr. Python Developer Five9, CA October 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Extensively worked on developing UI components using Angular JS and JSON to interact Restful web services.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks.  ? Utilize SAS programming skills within protocol team and perform all programming required for clinical trial analysis and reporting.  ? Worked on Django API's for accessing the database Employed JDBC in persistent service to connect to MySQL and perform database operations.  ? Involved in redesigning the process, Analysis, coding, testing and implementing.  ? . Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file using Python library Beautiful Soup.  ? Experience on S3 bucket and object key, the deployment package, or key when creating a Lambda function.  ? Using Kubernetes is a portable, extensible open-source platform for managing containerized workloads and services, that facilitates both declarative configuration and automation.  ? Supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  ? Experience Kubernetes services, support, and tools are widely available.  ? Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  ? In Artificial Intelligence Python is very well designed, fast, robust, portable, and scalable. These are evidently the most important factors for ARITIFICIAL INTELIGENCE applications  ? Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  ? Used IBM DB2 SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  ? Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  ? Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system. Created Git repository and added to GitHub project.  ? Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful, Webservices from consumer side using JavaScript and Ext.js.  ? I am using Python parsing log files logging to generate log files when processing and I am trying to READ those log files into a list/dict which will then be converted into JSON and loaded into a NoSQL database for processing.  ? Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 2.7.  ? Built the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and AngularJS while integrating with infrastructure services.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, J, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.  ? software development in Pandas Library's easy-to-use data structures and data analysis tools for the Python programming language  ? Knowledge on API give permission to LAMBDA to Details settings.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Managing cookies SSL/HTTPS encryption How to store passwords Using secret questions Forgotten username/password functionality Use of nonce to prevent cross-site request  ? Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Created Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, Data Feeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  ? Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications. Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  Environment: Python 3/2.7, Django 1.8, Flask, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Microservices, Windows, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, Git, GitHub, PySpark, Linux, Shell Scripting, Apache Spark, Ansible, AWS, Mongo DB, Maven, Jenkins. Python Developer Dish Technologies, CO July 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Worked with AWS in different servers to implement and test the code and develop a database.  ? Worked with Flask and pandas to monitor, migrate and develop table database.  ? Implemented SQL scripts and quarries in Python code to work with various databases and data sources.  ? Performed Systems Analysis and detail application design and designed various Databases in MySQL, Oracle.  ? Implemented threshold points to secure the code to crash free run environment.  ? Performed data migration and data filter from various data sources and build different databases to store the Raw data and filtered Data.  ? Created database using MySQL and wrote several queries to extract data from database.  ? Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and JSON.  ? Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  ? Programmed the invoicing web application using Golang and PostgreSQL as the backend.  ? Utilize Job dashboard monitor UI using Django/Flask.  ? Develop REST API and integrated with cloud products like AWS REST API gateway and AWS lambda.  ? Good Knowledge on In NiFi the data being passed between operators is referred to as a Flow File and can be NiFi accessed via various scripting languages in the Execute Script operator.  ? Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  ? Develop remote integration with third party platforms by using Restful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  ? Good Knowledge on Loading the Data into the Hive Table.  ? Implemented Restful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems and automating analysis of large data sets.  ? Knowledge on API give permission to LAMBDA to create functions.  ? Created PDF reports using Golang and XML documents to send it to all customers at the end of month with international language support.  ? Experience on running from my regular command line using Hive which database to use.  ? Experience in Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  ? Designed and implemented a distributed, QA infrastructure for automated testing of a multi process software product.  ? Experience on K8(kubernets) in automation deployment.  ? Complicated in Unit, integration and smoke testing.  ? Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  ? Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  ? Experience on Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) is a form of cloud computing that provides virtualized computing resources over the internet.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Use JavaScript and Bootstrap for page usefulness popup screens, Sale and discount tags for the products.  ? Working on K8(kubernets) in scaling and management of containerized applications.  ? Advanced entire front end and back end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed python scripts to migrate information from Oracle to MongoDB.  ? Designed and built a reporting module that uses Apache Spark SQL to fetch and generate reports.  ? Good experience software DB using automation tools like IBM deploy, Serena DA  ? Designed and developed data center management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle.  ? Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 3/2.7, Django 1.8, Flask, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Windows, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, Git, GitHub, PySpark, Linux, Shell Scripting, Apache Spark, Ansible, AWS, Mongo DB, Maven, Jenkins, Golang. Python Developer Meta Minds November 2009 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  ? Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django, and HTML.  ? Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, WebStorm, Intellij and Visual Studio pytest mypy, flake.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Experience with Flask and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  ? Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like Flask  ? Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, PHP).  ? Experienced with Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, Pandas data frame, Matplotlib, python-twitter, urllib2.  ? Experience and understanding of React Redux life cycle with components and rendering to DOM.  ? Experience in developing applications in Linux Environments such as Red Hat, CentOS, Ubuntu.  ? Experience in working with Relational DB (RDBMD) like SQLite, MYSQL Workbench, PostgreSQL and No-SQL database MongoDB for database connectivity.  ? Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database.  ? Basic Knowledge on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Extensive experience in using Python/Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  ? Unit testing for the entire code and fixing bugs in unit testing  ? Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu, Linux and UNIX.  ? Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Maintained customers relationship management databases (MySQL / PostgreSQL)  Environment: Python, Django-CMS plugins, Bootstrap, Agile, Django, Web Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Linux, JapacheavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Jira, Git, database access, Eclipse, WebLogic, GitHub, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Xml. Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (8 years), HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), PYTHON (8 years), XML (8 years), Java, Flask, C, Restful, AWS Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages: C, C++, Java, Assembly language, Objectively/SQL, Swift, R.  Scripting: Perl, Python, Shell, Unix, Ruby, JavaScript, jQuery  Markup Languages: Html and XML, CSS  Operating Systems: Windows7,8 & 10, Linux/Unix Ubuntu, MAC OS.  Libraries: Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pintables  Frame works: Django, wed2py, Flask, Pyramid, Node JS, Hibernate, Angular JS  Database: SQL, MYSQL, ORACLE, SYBASE, DB2, Microsoft SQL Server, Cassandra, PostgreSQL, MongoDB.  Version Controls: GIT, SVN, CVS.  Web Services: REST, SOAP, AWS.  CI/CD tools: Ansible, Chef, Puppet.  Testing Unit: testing, Integration testing  Web Servers: JBoss 4.0.5, BEA Web Logic  Web Sphere: Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP, SMTP  Deployment Tools: Heroku, Jenkins  Agile Methodologies: TTD, SCRUM.  Other Tools: Eclipse, ANT Build, Putty, Visual Studio.