Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - General Motors Warren, MI ? Around 7+ years of progressive experience in requirements review, design, development, quality analysis and deployment of software products using PERL, Unix Shell, C, Python, Oracle PL/SQL and MySQL on UNIX environment.  ? Extensive experience in designing, developing and enhancing applications using PERL, Shell and Python scripting.  ? Worked on all stages of Build & Release Management including analysis, design, development, testing and implementation.  ? Automated project requests by writing Perl and Unix Shell scripts.  ? Develop batch processes for financial reporting applications and modules using Perl and Korn shell scripts on AIX interacting with Oracle database. Hands on experience in SQL and PL/SQL and writing stored procedures.  ? Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and C++.  ? Building out the next-generation public-facing web site with an advanced Django-based web framework.  ? Good working knowledge on Oracle 9i and 11g and 12c databases.  ? Hands on experience with UNIX commands.  ? Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts and bash scripting.  ? Good Knowledge on Python Scripting - Used data structures like tuples, lists, sets, dictionaries, object-oriented class-based inheritance features.  ? Web development using Python, Django.  ? Good knowledge on installation and compilation of different CPAN PERL modules for PERLupgrades.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL/cx_ORACLE connector and MySQL dB and ORACLE packages.  ? Extensive experience in debugging and troubleshooting complicated production issues using tools like GDB and implemented corrective solutions.  ? Experience in developing and implementing Web Forms using Perl CGI, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap  ? Experience in Agile development techniques and Test-Driven Developments.  ? Keen on learning and adaptable to any platform.  ? Experience with configuration management tools like Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Crytograph, Git, REST API.  ? Strong understanding and experience in AWS EC2, network management and datacenter operations.  ? Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Experience on developing Chef Cookbook for the automation of software installation and configuration of customer infrastructures.  ? Experience in maintaining and executing build scripts to automate development and production builds.  ? Worked with Chef to aid with deployment process and migrating in house systems to Amazon Cloud Services.  ? Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  ? Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  ? Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  ? Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  ? Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell scripting.  ? Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, Mongo DB.  ? Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  ? Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team.  ? Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude Work Experience Sr. Python Developer General Motors - Warren, MI October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Develop and maintain automated tests using Python and the Robot test framework  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed the UI using ReactJs, HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Used SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures, functions to implement business logics in Oracle.  ? Wrote python raw SQL queries to Django database agnostic for MySQL and Oracle database.  ? Designed and developed GUI front-end applications using Oracle Forms for user interaction with the database.  ? Created Django class-based REST API's for the application and serialized data.  ? Wrote JavaScript form validations for all the web pages in the application.  ? Implemented several Socket, TCP/IP, UDP, Twisted ZeroMq, XMLRPC programs to retrieve data from various data centers.  ? Built python framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Wrote multiple Shell and Perl scripts for the automation of the unit testing.  ? Created Test script in Perl/Unix from automation and Ran the Test and validated results.  ? Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  ? Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Using ANT, Puppet/ Chef Scripts with Ivy to build the application and deploy.  ? Extracted data from XML files using PERL-XML modules.  ? Used Python in-built libraries urllib2 and beautiful soup modules for web scraping.  ? Using Chef and AWS allowed me to reduce costs for the department and eliminate unwarranted resources. Automated provisioning of cloud infrastructure with Chef.  ? Implemented automation script using Crontab in python to run the web crawler.  ? Used cURL for web scraping contents that cannot be scraped normally.  ? Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  ? Built python frameworks using NumPy and Pandas for data analysis.  ? Worked in Agile and scrum environment which includes daily standup and sprint planning.  ? Created unit test and automation framework using nose test and selenium.  ? Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced  ? performance.    Environment: Python 2.7, C/C++,AWS,EC2, Robot framework, ZeroMQ, twisted ZeroMQ, XML-RPC, IPC, TCP, UPD, Linux, Git, Stash, Jira, Confluence, Ubuntu, PyCharm, PyLint, PEP-8, Django 1.6. Python Developer Western Digital - San Jose, CA February 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Gathering requirements and translating the Business details into Technical design.  ? Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle (SDLC) like design, testing development and implementation.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework by implementing MVC architecture.  ? Developed the tools using Python Django and used MongoDB for databases. Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base. Used Parse kit (Enigma.io) framework for writing Parsers for ETL extraction.  ? Wrote multiple Perl programs to generate configuration files from Oracle Database.  ? Wrote Perl scripts to extract data from Oracle DB using Perl DBI module for Data analysis and report generation.  ? Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery.  ? Optimized the performance of complex SQL queries in Oracle reports as well as queries from the queries.  ? Extensively worked with spark Data frames for ingesting data from flat files into RDD's to transform unstructured data and structured data.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  ? Implemented secured way of Centralized login for AWS users using 389 Directory Services (LDAP) and OpenVPN.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Experience in creating Docker containers leveraging existing Linux Containers and AMI's in addition to creating Docker containers from scratch.  ? Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  ? Developed various API's for Django applications using Django-tasty pie.  ? Used JIRA to build an environment for development.  ? Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  ? Creating RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  ? Fixed bugs, providing production support, enhanced applications by improving code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  ? Front-end web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using Golang and SQL.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured complex Apache configuration files.  ? Experienced in building a Command line tool to interact with RESTful API using in Golang.  ? Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  ? Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and Matplotlib.  ? Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.    Environment: Python,AWS, EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, PyCharm, Selenium IDE, JQuery,Postgresql, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Web Services, Pandas, JSON, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Jinja, Flask, MongoDB, SQL, GIT, Cassandra. Python Developer Wells Fargo Home Mortgage - Minneapolis, MN October 2013 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  ? Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript (JQuery).  ? Built application logic using Python, used the Django Framework to develop the application.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Description Bluetooth enabled camcorder Embedded in a headset to enable hands-free audio and video recording with optical zoom capability.  ? Developed Perl and Shell scripts for upload of data feed into database  ? Developed reports in Perl for our end users.  ? Coded and debugged the stored Procedures, Packages and Views in Oracle Databases using SQL and PL/SQL, which were called by user-oriented application modules.  ? Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  ? Executed FIX testing for Functional, End-to-End, and Regression testing for various system applications.  ? Analyzed Business Requirement Document (BRD), Functional Specifications Document (FSD) and FIX client requirements to overall understand the project aim and discussed with BA emerged questions.  ? Generated various compliance and user reports in Python including FINRA OATS reports, user P&L reports, customized reports for users, user permissions and security information reports. Used Python MySQL connectors to pull data from db's.  ? Created Data tables to display customer information and add, delete, update customer records using Python, MySQL and XHTML.  ? Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  ? Written queries in HQL and Native SQL and criteria API.  ? Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view utilizing Python based GUI components.  ? Implemented marshalling and UN marshalling XML to HTML and HTML to XML.  ? Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  ? Actively participated in System Testing, production support and maintenance/patch deployments.  ? Worked on RUP development environment and used Rational ClearCase for versioning.  ? Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle 9i SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Developed test cases using Python unit test, pylint and nose.    Environment: Python, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, PyQT, PyUnit, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Systems Engineer Insert V IT May 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Developed Unix Shell scripts for cleansing and validating data files using utilities like AWK, sed, grep and other Unix commands.  ? Developed UNIX shell scripts implementing PL/SQL queries for data migration & batch processing.  ? Read and interpreted UNIX logs.  ? Worked in development, testing and production support using Oracle Forms, reports 10g, Oracle database 11g.  ? Develop automation solutions leveraging Shell and Perl to increase operational efficiency.  ? Execute performance tuning activities, develop monitoring processes, and improved process performance UNIX/Linux environment.  ? Developed Perl and Shell scripts for upload of data feed into database.  ? Developed reports in Perl for our end users.  ? Developed scripts and modified Pro*C program for automation of Claims processing to handle additional 1million recipients. Developed and implemented the new flow of Component trades which includes loading the feed file in Perl/Unix shell, applying the business rules through stored procedures and generating the report in Perl for the end users.  ? Created automation script using Perl to take the user input for batch processing of data through data module.  ? Wrote various PERL subroutines for automation of synch batch data.  ? Support over Perl Scripts for Web based application.  ? Created process to manage upgrades and patches.  ? Support over HTML, CSS.  ? Support application teams and assisting with complex issues.  ? Maintains and troubleshoots software on UNIX systems and applies temporary and permanent fixes to systems as needed.  ? Closely worked with the business users to solve different production issues doing root-cause analysis and break-fixes.  ? Created high level design document for the application    Environment: Perl, CGI, XML, C, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, DBI, SQL/Plus, SQL, UNIX Education Bachelor's Skills Apache (4 years), API (4 years), CSS (7 years), databases. (4 years), Django (5 years), frontend (5 years), FRONT END DESIGN (5 years), Git (3 years), HTML (7 years), JavaScript. (5 years), Jira (3 years), jQuery. (4 years), Linux (7 years), MySQL (5 years), Oracle. (7 years), PHP (2 years), Python (5 years), SQL (7 years), Unix (5 years), XML (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Python, Shell (Bash), C, C++, PHP    Operating Systems: UNIX/LINUX, Mac OS, Windows  Databases: ORACLE, MySQL, SQLite, PostGRE, MS SQL SERVER, NoSQL databases MongoDB (2.6, 2.4)  Version Controls: GIT, SVN, Clear Case.  Protocols: FTP, IPC, TCP/IP, UDP, ZeroMQ  Frameworks: Django, Contents Management system CMS, Django based CMS-Mezzanine, Flask, Bootstrap, CherryPy, web2py, Tornado, Pyramid, Robot.  Software Tools &Other Utilities: PyCharm, Eclipse, IBM Rational ClearCas, GIT, JIRA VOS - Multi Process Debugger and Forms Management System, JIRA  Compilers & Debugging tools GNU GCC, Unix GNU Debugger, Valgrind  IDEs Eclipse, SQLPlus, SQL Developer, Toad  Front-End Components HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap  Profilers& Debuggers: GNU debugger, MPLAB ICD 3, MultiICE, GNUGDB, Lauterbach'sTrace32  Web Server: APACHE SERVER, Apache HTTP, IIS 6.0  Web Technology: ReactJs, AngularJs, HTML, JavaScript, ES6, jQuery, ajax, CSS, Bootstrap, XML  Delivery Tools: Saltstack, REST API, Chef & Puppet,Git, Cryptograph.