Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Vanguard group inc Bentonville, AR • Professional 7+years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Java and C++.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and Java.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experienced in Software development life cycle and architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing, and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience of software development with Python and various libraries of Python, python-twitter, Pandas, Data frame, MySQL dB for database connectivity), Regular expression, File IO etc.  • Extensively worked on Spark SQL, Data frames, RDD's to improve the performance of the application. Developed Spark scripts by using Scala IDE's as per the business requirement.  • Used Spark SQL and Hive SQL to process structured and unstructured data.  • Expertise in handling web applications - UI security, logging, backend services.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python and Node.js, AngularJS, DOJO, JQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Experienced in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS).  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, Neo4J, Mongo DB, and Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Configure backup, alerts, repairs and monitoring of Cassandra clusters, in conjunction with Nagios/Opscenter and custom scripts.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing Mongo DB clusters.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on DevOps tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture.  • Employed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod python.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, Red Hat Linux, Fedora).  • Good Knowledge of web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Good knowledge of version control software - CVS, SVN, ETL , GitHub  • Experience of Build & Deployment phase and usage of Continuous Integration (CI/CD) tools, build configuration, change history for releases, Maintenance of build system, automation & smoke test processes, managing, configuring, and maintaining source control management systems.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, Postgre SQL,SQL/PLSQL concepts & Power Shell.  • Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  • Good written and verbal communications skills and Excellent Team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Vanguard group inc - Harrisburg, PA September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the User Interface for the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and JSON.    • Successfully migrated the database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity. Developed merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Rewrite existing modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database APIs to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined Function.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Used jQuery for all client-side data manipulation.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector MySQL package to retrieve information.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Maintenance and continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Supporting the data warehousing application to make sure the jobs are run as scheduled and the SLAs are met.  • Providing reports for business users for sales forecasting and planning.  • Maintaining the application for daily operations and scaling according to Business requirements.  • Involved in the Complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the applicatio.  Environment: Python 2.7, PyQt, .NET, PyQuery, Agile, SDLC, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, Windows, PostgreSQL, Numpy, SQLAlchemy. Python Developer CVS pharmacy - Woonsocket, RI October 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Used Django Framework for developing web applications using model view control architecture.  • Used Multi-Threading factory model to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB and VMWare API calls.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Extracted the data that are required for the segmentation using spark environment.  • Worked on reading multiple data formats on HDFS using Spark.  • Test and validated the custom scripts.  • Created custom new columns depending up on the use case while ingesting the data into Hadoop Lake using Spark.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models.  • Analysed the SQL scripts and designed it by using Spark SQL for faster performance.  • Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors).  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  • Troubleshooting the issues related to all domain reported by L2 team on daily basis.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • As point on the L2 support team worked with application, database, reporting, SQM and project managements team to resolve  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL alchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Jira. Python Developer Dorman Products Inc - Colmar, PA September 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and worked on MYSQL data lineage process to map source to target DB, table and column mappings using OO Python.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Published REST API's to fetch data from Elastic Search clusters for client based applications to search assets and claims by multi-field indexes and Used Elastic Search for setting up the search cluster.  • Written Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone application in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Executed MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL package to retrieve information.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Developed wrapper scripts in Bash shell to automate execution of multiple Python scripts.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Key performance index and filtering of displayed columns to help customers understand the analytics data that is provided by GC.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Implemented discretization, binning, & data wrangling used to clean, transform, merge, and reshape data frames as well as upgraded two web applications from Django 0.9x to Django 1.x.  • Built Python scripts to identify and correct erroneous data in PostgreSQL database using clustering, regression, and statistics  • Developed unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Used PyQt during integration phase of the application.  • Analyzed data using Excel VBA scripts and Macros.  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Used Bitbucket for version control.  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, SOAP.  Environment: Python 3.3, PyQt, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, AWS, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, IPython, SQL Alchemy. Python developer Rig-Veda Software Solutions, HYD May 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Contributed to development of security policies and processes.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using amazon elastic bean stalk.  • Refractor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Written functional Php unit test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, Curl, XML, JSON, REST base services and Mongo DB.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, NoSQLand Mongo DB.  • Interact with backend using Java and Hibernate Framework.  • Involved in Coding of Enterprise Java Beans, which implements business rules, and business logic.  • Involved in developing the Java classes and JavaBeans.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Designed, developed, and updated automated tests (written in Python) for the software product Qdirect.  • Must have strong experience in Python to support Q-Direct and major part of Q-Direct code is on Python.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Utilize in-depth knowledge of Technical experience in LAMP and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  • Developed multiple spark batch jobs in Scala using Spark SQL and performed transformations using many APIs and update master data in Cassandra database as per the business requirement.  • Written Spark-Scala scripts, by creating multiple udf's, spark context, Cassandra sql context, multiple API's, methods which support data frames, RDD's, data frame Joins, Cassandra table joins and finally write/save the data frames/RDD's to Cassandra database.  • As part of the POC migrated the data from source systems to another environment using Spark, SparkSQL.  • Developed and implemented core API services using Python with spark.  • Experienced in Export Transform Load.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Created data frames in particular schema from raw data stored at Amazon S3 using PySpark.    Environment: Linux, Python 2.7, 2.5, Django 1.7, 1.5, HTML5, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, MS SQL Server, NoSQL, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Beautiful soup, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, JIRA. Software/ Python developer Rig-Veda Software Solutions, HYD April 2010 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.5, Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Involved in creating Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), which route submittals to the appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information using Session Facade.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology.  • Developed and designed an API (Restful Web Service).  • Used the Python language to develop web-based data retrieval systems.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (Restful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed web sites using Django, Python, XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.  • Tested and implemented applications built using Python.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created complex dynamic HTML UI using jQuery.  • Automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel).  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL,  NoSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Implemented and tested python based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MSvisualbasic-2014, using SQL developer tools.  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc.  • Performed joins, group by and other operations in Map Reduce using Python.  • Handled importing of data from various data sources, performed transformations using Hive, Map Reduce, and loaded data into HDFS.  • Wrote Map Reduce code to make un-structured data into semi- structured data and loaded into Hive tables.  • Supported Map Reduce Programs those are running on the cluster.  • Executed queries using Hive and developed Map Reduce jobs to analyze data.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  Environment: Linux, Python 2.7, Mod Python, Perl, PHP, MySQL, NoSQL, JavaScript, Ajax, Shell Script, HTML, CSS. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (6 years), Linux (6 years), MySQL (8 years), Python (8 years), SQL (8 years), Javascript, Java, C, Flask, Django Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages C, Python, SQL, JAVA script  Databases SQL Server 2014,2012, Oracle 9i/8.x, 10g, DB2 MS Access, Teradata, MYSQL, PLSQL, Bi Tools  Other Software MS Office- 2007/2003/2000, Adobe Professional, SharePoint    Operating Systems Linux, Windows /98/2000/2003/XP/Vista/8, Unix  Data Science Tools R Language, STASTISTICA, Big Data, python  Web Technologies HTML, CSS,