Sr. Python developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Python developer - Comcast Philadelphia, PA • Over 8+ years of experience as an Application developer, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, HTML, DHTML, C#, Oracle PL/SQL, Postgres.  • Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django, and HTML. Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, Spyder and Visual Studio.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Working with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Experience with automation/configuration management using tools like Ansible, Puppet, Chef and Salt Stack  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like django  • Experience with CI/CD systems like Git and Jenkins.  • Have experience working with Bitbucket  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Extensive experience in technologies like Java, UML, HTML, JSP, Servlets, JMS, JDBC, JNDI.  • Proficient in SQL databases MSSQL Server, MySQL, Oracle DB, Postgres and MongoDB.  • Basic Knowledge on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Knowledge of SOA/REST based service development  • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Basic understanding of protocols/technologies like HTTP, LDAP, JDBC, SSL, Servlet/JSP, SQL, HTML, XML  • Generate and verify Firebase auth tokens.  • Extensive programming experience in Struts, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Access Google Cloud Platform resources like Cloud Storage buckets and Firestore databases associated with Firebase project.  • Basic knowledge on Rest API and JSON Parsing, and JQuery  • Experience with Angular front end web application.  • Used Python, Perl, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Monitor all users/Firewall traffic using smart view-tracker, and smart view-monitor.  • Ensured standards are maintained for firewalls and other network device version updates.  • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java  • Having Good Experience in Object Oriented Concepts with C# and Python 3.x.  • Extensive experience in using Python/Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  • Good knowledge on IBM WebSphere Application Deployment and maintenance of an application on Application Server using clusters concept and IBM Tivoli Monitoring.  • Experience in working with Tableau Analytics.  • Good knowledge in various phases of SDLC Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects.  • Good Experience in error and exceptional handling.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Shell scripting.  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Familiar with Agile and Waterfall development methodologies  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.  • Managed windows servers which included Active Directory maintenance and support  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools such as JIRA and Bugzilla  • Experience with cloud technologies such as VMware, AWS  • Created an Test Automation Framework with Selenium for test automation process  • Unit testing for the entire code and fixing bugs in unit testing  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu Linux and UNIX. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with various C tasks, integrated with them using Python.  • Conducted and performed unit testing for every module of the source code.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. Also, used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Extensively involved in performing unit testing using PyUnit which are bundled and imported automatically.  • All the code are stored in local Git repository and once it is validated then it is committed onto GitHub.  • Installation, configuration and administration of Virtual box and VMware virtual machine for Ubuntu and Linux servers.  • Created SQL loader Scripts to load data into the temporary staging tables. Scripted Powershell reports to check for user account audit compliance.  • Involved in making GUI (JSP, HTML, and JS) and java classes using Struts Framework.  • Object Oriented Concepts(OOPS) like Collections, Multi-threading, Exception Handling, Reflection.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries.  • Automated the cloud deployment using python and AWS cloud formation templates.  • Environment: Python, C, C++, Django, Pytest, Git, PDB, JSON, SQL Alchemy, MySQL, Eclipse, Pycharm, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, Linux, AWS, Javascript, Jenkins. Jr. Python Developer Catholic Health Initiatives - Lincoln, NE June 2016 to July 2018 Description: CHI Health St. Elizabeth, founded by the Sisters of St. Francis of Perpetual Adoration in 1889, is a full-service, 260-bed, nonprofit regional medical center. We are guided by our core values of reverence, integrity, compassion and excellence to programs and services that benefit our patients as well as the health of the greater community.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Coded model level validation using Python programming with emphasis in web security.  • Handled Business logics by backend Python programming to achieve optimal results.  • Implemented jQuery to improve the overall usability of the website interface and AJAX functionality to speed up web application.  • Used Node.js to create a fast chat server with efficiency  • Developed views and templates in Django to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Constructed RESTful API's using PHP, Node.js, and MySQL/PostgreSQL.  • Configured Django to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend of web applications.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Developed reusable components using react.js and redux for maintaining the state and actions of the functions.  • Participate in discussions with business users for requirements related doubts. Provide application maintenance and enhancement support for legacy system.  • Utilised Futures and Spring Framework to make Asynchronous calls to the application.  • Developed web services using Restful technology to support JSON and XML.  • Created new connections through applications for better access to MySQL database and involved in writing SQL & PLSQL - Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors, object types etc.  • Expertise in Spring Security both client and ServerSide  • Developed user interface using JSP jQuery, and AJAX to speed the application.  • Designed RabbitMQ/MongoDB pipeline for routing/storing of email bounce handling records.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Implemented AJAX to update necessary section of webpages and hence, avoiding the need for reloading the entire web page.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  • Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing. Development of test framework using the Python. Managed code with unit tests and GitHub.  • Developed Capistrano scripts to automate deployment on various environments.  • Used GIT as Source control repositories with regular code reviews and pull/merge requests. Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Pandas, MYSQL, Restful API's, Linux, Servlets, JavaBeans, SCRUM, Agile, Heroku, JIRA, GIT Python Developer Target - Minneapolis, MN April 2014 to May 2016 Description: Target is recognized as a leader in innovation across the retail industry. From pioneering the concept of designer partnerships to consistently being best in class in store design, Target remains focused on not only meeting, but exceeding, its guests' needs.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Used Salt Stack to configure and manage the infrastructure.  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Used REACTJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Involved to implement various screens for the front end using REACTJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and REDUX library.  • Used AWS Cloud Watch to monitor and store logging information  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Developed Server side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Provided technical delivery in compliance with Services Oriented Architecture against IBM Connections and WebSphere Portal platforms including programming JSR168, JSR 286 Portlet specs, JMS, JSP, Servlets, JUnit, and  • Used object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Developed and Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using amazon elastic bean stalk.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development  • Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, HTML, CSS, NoSQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services, AWS Full Stack Python Developer Cigna Health Insurance - Bloomfield, CT February 2012 to March 2014 Description: Cigna is an American worldwide health services organization based in suburban Bloomfield, Connecticut. Its insurance subsidiaries are major providers of medical, dental, disability, life and accident insurance and related products and services, the majority of which are offered through employers and other groups    Responsibilities:  • Develop, test, deploy and maintain the application.  • Worked with UI team to maintain and monitor the application using JAVA and Python.  • Developed web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse csv files and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Designed test cases and test plans, and developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using  • Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  • AGILE development process has been followed. Experienced with stand-up, Retrospective, Demo, Planning and Code Review meetings.  • Used AJAX for request response processing without reloading the complete page.  • Designed the architecture based on the popular J2EE Model 2 approach of Model-View-Controller design paradigm.  • Developed UI screens using Angular JS (Custom Directives, Validation and Promises.  • Developed Angular Controllers, Services, Filters and HTML templates using Angular Directive.  • Developed Test Cases using Easy Mock and used POSTMAN to test REST Calls.  • Used Python and Django Creating Graphics, XML Processing, Data Exchange and Business Logic  • Develop and execute Unit Test plans using JUnit, ensuring that results are documented and reviewed with Quality Assurance teams responsible for integrated testing.  • Worked in agile environment and developed ci/cd pipeline through Jira, GitHub, Team City, Pypi, Docker Hub, Supported Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Expert in writing Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web based solution.  • Using Python/Django, HTML, CSS, Sass, JavaScript, SQL, and PostgreSQL, maintaining and adding software. Full Stack Python Developer HSBC - New York, NY March 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed, tested, and deployed Business feature set in Node.js with Express and MongoDB backend, incorporating APIs.  • Developed application using Amazon Web Service(AWS) like EC2, cloud search, Elastic load balancer ELB, Cloud Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Create a custom dashboard using JSF replacing an existing Horizon dashboard using the RESTfulAPI provided by Openstack  • Developed high performant multithreaded C++ applications using C++11 features like shared_ptr, weak_ptr, lambda and atomic operations.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Flask Web Framework.  • Implemented Amazon Web services (AWS) Rest API Gateway using AWS Lambda.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Designed and developed DB2SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Python framework for using OpenStack/DevStack for MicroService Wireless Security Appliance Development RESTful API.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images  • Created ETL mappings using Informatica Power Center to move Data from multiple sources like Flat files, Oracle into a common target area such as Staging, Data Warehouse and Data Marts.  • Created data pipelines using Apache Spark, a big-data processing and computing framework.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib.  • Automated application deployment in the cloud using Docker technology using Elastic Container service scheduler.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Develop and maintain internal facing RESTful services using Python.  • Implement a continuous delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub, Nexus, Maven and AWS AMI's.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Shading, replication, schema design.  • Involved in deploying applications into Elastic Beanstalk Environment using cloud formation templates.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package to retrieve information.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  • Deployed Cloud with various templates.  • Wrote python scripts to assign ip addresses to vm's on different networks  • Familiar with openstack services such as NOVA, SWIFT, KEYSTONE, NEUTRON, CINDER and GLANCE.  • Used ansible for automating cloud deployment process.  • Developed the ACP daemon in Python to allow for integration with OpenStack.  • Backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle were designed and created.  • Created RESTful API's calls with server, parse output report of excel files.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Performing code coverage and pep8 standardization.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, MongoDB, and VMWare API calls. Education Bachelor's Bachelor of Science stanford university