Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Woonsocket, RI • Highly motivated professional with 8+ years' experience in Python development, with Web Services, RDBMS, NOSQL and application services domain.  • Experienced in Object Oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and Java.  • Experience with Requests, Multithreading, DB Connection, Web Services, JSON, XML, FILEIO, HTTPLib2, Urllib2 and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Strong expertise in development of web-based applications using Python, Django, Flask, Dojo, HTML, XML, JavaScript, JSON and jQuery.  • Sound knowledge in spring, Django, ORM, RDBMS, Python Scripting.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  • Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and perform analysis-using Django, PostgreSQL.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB, MySQL.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2web application frameworks, with good understanding of Django ORM and SQL Alchemy.  • Experienced in following PEP8 coding standards across various projects and experience in Apache, Tomcat.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, Java Script and jQuery.  • Experience using software development tools such as Eclipse, VSCode, Git, Jenkins, etc. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer CVS Health - Woonsocket, RI April 2018 to Present ·        Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in Python using Django MVC.  ·        Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and re-usable components.  ·        Designed web pages using JavaScript/ HTML.  ·        Made use of inheritance concept to reuse different methods in most of the developed classes.  ·        Developed multiple web applications using Django Framework.  ·        Performed client side validations using JavaScript and server side validations using various other frameworks.  ·        Used MVC framework for the back-end while the front-ends were built using the Blueprint CSS Framework and HTML.  ·        Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  ·        Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  ·        Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Django, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript.  ·        Performed STB testing, Unit testing, Integration testing, involved in designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  ·        Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  ·        Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  ·        Designed and developed Web services using XML and JQuery.  ·        Participated actively in STB testing, unit testing, integration testing and GUI.     Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, MySQL, Heroku, GitHub, UNIX, and Virtualization. Python Developer American Airlines - Dallas, TX September 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Built Web application using Python, Django, Flask, JavaScript, and AJAX, HTML and template languages.  • Used Apache to deploy production site.  • Strong experience using Web Services and API's in python.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC and frameworks such as Django, Flask.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as GIT, SVN, CVN and Source Tree.  • Experience in Application Development and Object-Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD).  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and java.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse and Sublime Text.    Environment: Python, Django, Linux, HTML, CSS JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, Angular Js, Mango Db, RISK management, TDD, SOAP, REST, MVC, GitHub Python Developer Hudson Insurance - Alpharetta, GA May 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Done Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling and process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front-end applications.  • Involved in testing RESTFull API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    Environment: Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, JSON, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, agile, Restfull, UNIX and Windows. Python Developer Deloitte - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2013 to April 2015 Description: Deloitte is one of the leading professional services organization in the United States. The team Systems Integration at Deloitte consulting LLP, our systems integration specialists help clients manage the complexity inherent with technology change, from requirements planning to architecture, testing to deployment and helping to link their IT programs to organizational goals.  Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on information trade from site utilizing XML and Web Services.  • Build all database mapping classes utilizing Django models.  • Worked on writing and as well as reading data from CVS and Excel file formats.  • Worked with Level 2 support group, DBAs and framework team to enhance the proficiency and capacity of our system.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Developed and controlled Cloud development scripts, also automated the provision of AWS resources, which involve EC2, S3, RDS.  • Worked on Docker containerization.  • Used Docker to execute a high-level API to give lightweight containers that run forms segregation and dealt with production of customized Docker container images, tagged and pushed these to the Docker repository.  • Implemented a continuation Delivery Pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub to create another Docker holder consequently.  • Developed different algorithms for generating many test environments data patterns.  • Worked with Level 2 support team, DBAs and setup team to improve the proficiency and cap ability of our system.  • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and conducted meetings among peer.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with compile data integrity.  • Used Restful API to gather network traffic data from Servers.  • Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.  • Involved in User Acceptance Testing and prepared UAT Test Scripts  Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solution    Environment: Python, Django, Linux, HTML, CSS JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, Angular Js, Mango Db, RISK management, TDD, SOAP, REST, MVC, GitHub Junior Developer Beckon Dickinson - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2011 to October 2013 Description: American medical technology company that manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems, and reagents. BD also provides consulting and analytics services in certain geographies  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement gathering, designing and developing web-based applications.  • Installed and Configured Linux with Apache, Oracle and PHP.  • Developed widgets for GUI using modules of Python.  • Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design database.  • Managing of internet security and acceleration throughout the network using Microsoft's ISA server.  • Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue.  • Fetched twitter feeds important keyword using python twitter library.  • Created the domains, application servers and load balancers using WebLogic 9.0.  • Designed extensive additions to existing Python Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  • Worked with Linux shell commands and command line utilities.  • Developed Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Created unit test cases by using Python unit test library.  • Developed automation scripts to back up the old records by using Mongo DB export command and transferred the files to the backup machine with the help of ftplib.  • Worked on Mango DB replication concept, used to maintain multiple copies of data in different database servers.  • Involved in build and deployment on various environments including Linux and Unix  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management  • Used AWS for running application on the cloud by using Lambda function.  • Used design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability and used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Used GitHub as version controller.  Environment: Python, Django, Linux, HTML, CSS JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, Angular Js, Mango Db, RISK management, TDD, SOAP, REST, MVC, GitHub Education Bachelor's in Civil Engineering in Civil Engineering Anna University April 2018 to Present