Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Optum Raleigh, NC * Over all 7+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and object-oriented programming (OOP) coding with Python, Django, C++.  * Extensive knowledge in Python, Java, MySQL, Oracle, Unix, Linux and in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  * Developed dynamic frontend and backend applications using Python, Flask Frameworks.  * Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  * Good experience in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP.  * Experienced in working with various Python IDEs using PyCharm, Spyder, NetBeans, PyStudio, PyScripter, Eric, Wing IDE and PyDev.  * Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, PySpark, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity) and IDEs -sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, pytest, Eclipse, emacs.  * Develop E-Commerce application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ReactJS, SQL, Python and Flask.  * Worked with MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script, jQuery and JSON.  * Developed unit tests for Django and Flask applications.  * Researched JavaScript frameworks to replace frontend of a Flask application and began implementing a React solution.  * Cognitive about designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS).  * Highly skilled in deployment, data security and troubleshooting of the applications using AWS services.  * Experienced in implementing Organization DevOps strategy in various operating environments of Linux and windows servers along with cloud strategies of Amazon Web Services  * Proficient in writing Cloud Formation Templates (CFT) in YAML and JSON format to build the AWS services with the paradigm of Infrastructure as a Code.  * Gained experience in deploying applications on to their respective environments using Elastic Beanstalk.  * Experienced with event-driven and scheduled AWS Lambda functions to trigger various AWS resources  * Driven to architect Big Data solutions on multiple platforms using data analytics  * Extensive knowledge in PHP, MySQL, NoSQL, UNIX and Linux.  * Experience with Design, code, debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  * Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  * Expertise in Production support. Provided first, second and third level support to different organizations. Used pdb, gdb and other debugging tools and deployed production hot fixes.  * Adept at automating repetitive work through Shell scripts and Python  * Worked on Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications and data processing automation using Python.  * Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding and experience in analyzing and handling large database using Oracle Relational Data Architecture.  * Working with backend Python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  * Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server-side application Django.  * Good knowledge about frameworks such as Bootstrap and Foundation.  * Expertise in AWS Resources like EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Security Groups.  * Working experience with cloud infrastructure of AWS (Amazon Web Services) and computing AMI virtual machines on Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).  * Have experience with AWS LAMBDA which runs the code with response of events  * Hands on experience with version control tools such as SVN, JIRA, GitHub, and GitLab.  * Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM process including Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Daily Standups and Code review.  * Knowledge of automation technology such as Chef, Ansible and Puppet Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Optum - Raleigh, NC July 2018 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework.  • Developed Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data into Oracle database.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's model view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Performed Unit Testing in Python using Cucumber.  • Developed Web services (REST & JSON) in Windows and Linux environments.  • Developed highly efficient algorithms in C++ through independent work. The algorithms improved inventory management benchmarks 18 percent.  • Using Python NumPy, Matplotlib, SciPy, and Pandas packages created a web scraping application in Flask to perform dataset manipulation for data wrangling.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Developed backup and recovery engine for VM backup/recovery using VMware vSphere APIs, Python programming language and Apache Active MQ Message bus (communication interface).  • Managed Linux and Windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 using Chef Server. Configured and monitored distributed and multi-platform servers using chef.  • Experience in core AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, EBS, Route53, VPC, Auto scaling etc.) and deployment services (Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, OpsWorks and Cloud Formation) and security practices (IAM, CloudWatch and Cloud trail).  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script.  • Worked on build tasks using Maven, Ant, Gradle and GNU Make files and worked with development team to migrate Ant scripts to Maven.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Published REST API's to fetch data from Elastic Search clusters for client-based applications to search assets and claims by multi-field indexes and Used Elastic Search for setting up the search cluster.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Written python unit test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, XML, JSON, REST base services and MongoDB.    Environment: Java, Django, Flask, XML, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, Cucumber, Jenkins, Mongo dB, SQL, Python 3.3, HTML5/CSS, Cassandra, JavaScript, PyCharm, GIT, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, Docker, Jenkins, JIRA, jQuery, MySQL, AWS Sr. Python Developer Nuware - Iselin, NJ January 2017 to June 2018 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python and created data access modules in Python.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework and Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Python & Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange & business logic implementation between servers.  • Rewrote existing Python/Flask module to deliver certain format of data.  • Created script in python for calling REST APIs.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and implement CSS for better appearance and feel.  • Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Design / Implementation of pricing module (average swaps, basis swaps, swaptions, and caps/floors on commodity futures) in C++  • Developed C++ Trade Capture and processing application which is a single unified platform for booking and tracking Credit derivatives like CDSI, Single Name CDS, and Index Tranches, etc. using network/socket programming and multithreading concepts.  • Experience in developing C++ services using web services architecture, SOAP, WSDL, and XML.  • Developed Application that would allow transfer of log files from Linux (Debian) computer to Linux server using C++ multithreading environment. These log files are served using the web interface to any computer locally using C++ CGI and LAMP.  • Built complete Configuration Management for the Micro-services using Kubernetes, Docker and Ansible.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Developing the Python automated scripting using Boto3 library for AWS Security audit and reporting using AWS Lambda for multiple AWS Accounts.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services such as EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, and Elastic Load Balancer.  • Used the boto3 module in Python to interface with Amazon Web Services (AWS) like DynamoDB, which is a NoSQL database service that provides fast and predictable performance with seamless scalability.  • Analyzed various logs that are been generated and used various Python libraries to predict/forecast next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base, reducing the number of lines in code and duplication significantly.  • Query Optimization through MYSQL server tools for quick response time.  • Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL.  • Used jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, WSDL, NetBeans, JBOSS, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP. PYTHON DEVELOPER Boston Scientific - San Jose, CA October 2015 to December 2016 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Interacted with the client end-users during requirements gathering sessions.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 2.7 and its familiar framework Django.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Worked on real time in memory distributed systems.  • Designed and developed transactions and persistence layers to save/retrieve/modify data for application functionalities using Django and PostgreSQL  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful, Web services from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Used object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Implemented and tested Python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Wrote MapReduce code to make un-structured data into semi- structured data and loaded into Hive tables.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework by implementing MVC architecture.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python and also implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and SQL Queries  • Installed and configured builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Upgraded internal and customer TLS/SSL Apache Web Server configurations; trained staff on proper implementations, potential issues/concerns, and automated changes with Ansible  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.    Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, AWS, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, Sublime Text, PyCharm, Jira, GIT, pybuilder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services, HTML5/CSS, XML, JSON, Ajax PYTHON DEVELOPER Kernex microsystems - IN August 2014 to September 2015 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in reviewing and understanding the Business requirements.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis and developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  • Working in team of developers to build and deploy Flask, Linux, and AWS.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and also used AWS CLI to control various AWS services over SHELL/Bash.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Developed web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  • Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit, Selenium and Rational Function Tester.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Wrote Maven scripts for compiling, building, packaging and deploying the WAR file.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Developed methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Expertise in creating and developing applications for android operating system using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, SQLite, Java, XML, Android SDK and ADT plugin.  • Worked on Angular JS to augment browser applications with MVC capability.  Environment: Python, Angular, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, MySQL server, T-SQL, GIT, Reports, RESTful, Linux, JSON, AJAX. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Axis Bank - IN May 2012 to May 2014 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, jQuery, JavaScript extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Writing SOAP and RESTful web services, in house ESB for a web claims application (Spring MVC, Angular JS, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Build forge)  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection, Threads, XML, and integrating the modules.  • Developed Reporting framework using JAVA and J2EE which will generate daily, monthly and yearly reports and prepared different framework design documents.  • Created tables, views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL developer.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase  • Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns such as Business Delegate, Session Facade, singleton in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL  • Automated several processes by developing Python scripts  • Developed web application using FLASK, Python micro-frame work based MVC design architecture  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, MongoDB, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, SOAP, REST, PHP, .net. Education Bachelor's in Haryana Kurukshetra Engineering College 2012 Skills C++, DJANGO, Git, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C, C++, Python, JavaScript, PHP, XML, JAVA, SQL  SCM Tools Subversion, Jenkins/Hudson, Jira, TFS, Confluence, Clear Case, GIT, GitHub.  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows, DOS, VMware  Python Web Frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask, web2Py.  Database Postgre SQL, SQL Server, MYSQL and Oracle  Application Servers Web logic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, Apache tomcat5.5, IIS  Development IDE PyCharm, Eclipse, Vim, Net beans, MS Visio, Sublime Text, Notepad++  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall  Delivery tools Saltstack, Chef & Puppet