Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Capital One Atlanta, GA • 7+ years of professional experience in I.T Industry with strong hands on analysis, design and development of enterprise applications using Python, Django, Flask technologies.  • Equipped with the knowledge of various software's, organizing technical demonstrations with sound understanding and skill of creating new software & systems, designing, analysis, testing, database development and coding for modules while structuring customized solutions to meet customer's specific needs.  • Experience in application development using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite and Git.  • Designing and developing full-stack applications across multiple platforms using modern industry-adopted languages and frameworks.  • Worked on a new web app built in React and Redux using ES6.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Code.  • Strong knowledge and experience in Object-Oriented Design and Programming concepts using Python, C++.  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark and No-SQL databases like HBase and MongoDB.  • Hands-on experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a fast-paced environment.  • Experience in developing REST Web Services and using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO.  • Experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications in Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Good knowledge of Apache server, Apache Server Tomcat, and Web logic in application servers.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud platform like EC2, Virtual private clouds (VPCs), Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage), Elastic Load Balancers (ELBs).  • Created EBS volumes for storing application files for use with EC2 instances whenever they are mounted to them.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  • Designed and developed presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experienced in writing PERL script to extract data from text files, web automation and converting the file formats.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Capital One - Atlanta, GA October 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management  • Developed Python application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting  • Worked on Python Open stack API's, used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  • Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries sickest-learn and spicy.  • Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web-based application in OOP concepts.  • Worked on several python packages like Matpoltlib, cx_Freeze, Pillow, Numpy, sockets.  • Worked on Processing which consists of data transformation, data sourcing and mapping, Conversion and loading.  • Worked on design and development of Unix Shell Scripting as a part of the ETL Process to automate the process of loading.  • Worked on ETL tasks like pulling, pushing data from and too various servers.  • Tested and evaluated results for inclusion into software product.  • Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis using R Studio  • Automating Email Process, Downloading and uploading the files through Perl Scripting.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met  • Used Machine learning techniques like unsupervised Classification, optimization and prediction.  • Worked on Python open stack API's  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like open stack.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team    Environment: Python 2.7, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX, Windows, and Python libraries Sr. Python Developer Bank of America, Jersey, City, NJ July 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, business analysts, systems administrators, to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for developing Python REST API framework using Django MVC architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Implemented User Interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, jQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Designed Docker proof-of-concept using Nomad and Consul.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Implemented a continuous Delivery Pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub to build a new Docker container automatically.    Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, DOM, JSON, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, MySQL, GitHub, LINUX Python Developer Simran 23 Inc - Cumming, GA April 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing business side of the application and its integration and in the complete software life cycle (SDLC) to develop the web application.  • Developed the application using Python, Django in End-to-End Web application development using MVC architecture while front-end is built on CSS3 and HTML5.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PyUnit.  • Designed Database Model for the entire application Creating tables, Views and Stored procedures.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and building table-free layouts.  • Worked on front-end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Created Database Schema for MySQL Database and involved in designing ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Worked on Pandas to import the data, Sort and plot the statistical data using histograms.  • Worked on Python Scripts to create Excel and CSV files for documenting the Statistical Reports.  • Used Pandas for Statistical Analysis in the application and Numpy for the advance math functionalities.  • Used GitHub for Version Control System and deployed the project code into Heroku.  • Worked on XML documents based on XML Schema definition (XSD) with python scripts to load the data to database.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens and the user entry validations.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, JIRA, jQuery, JavaScript, MySQL, XML, Git, Pandas Python Developer The Home Depot - Atlanta, GA January 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Python Full Stack Developer.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects, used Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Created Business Logic using python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation. Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate manual tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Responsible for creating company's internal platform called DCAE by using python to develop and test the components.  • Worked with various Python libraries such as Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON files and load the data into the Consul.  • Used Python IDE PyCharm for developing the code and performing unit test.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, IntelliJ IDEA.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Git and GitHub for microservice and continuous deployment.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework and created UI Screens for initiation and validation.    Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX Mainframe Developer Merrill Lynch - New York, NY November 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Estimate Analysis Design Development Testing and perform the implementation of the requirements sent by the clients.  • Translate customer business requirements into functional requirements and detailed design documents establish specific solutions and programming testing that makes client acceptance of the results.  • Development Testing and deployment of associated software components and executable jobs through COBOL JCL DB2 CICS Expediter PLATINUM and Endevor tools and implementing the same in Production  • Resolving production failures within the timeframe which adheres to the service level agreement SLA.  • Writing/Reviewing test cases and performs testing to verify if the final product is as per the specification or not follow quality management system processes as per IBM standard.  • Prepare various status, monthly metrics and SOX compliance reports.  • Deliver new and complex high-quality solutions to clients in response to varying business requirements with quality.    Environment: COBOL, JCL, VSAM, DB2, CICS, Stored procedures, CICS, Endeavor, MQ Series, SYNCSORT, File Manager, BMC, DB2, IBM Utilities Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License