Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - UBS Chicago, IL • Over 8+Years of combined work experience in Analysis, Design, Big Data, Web Application Development, Management and Implementation of various stand alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Experience in implementing server-side technologies with RESTful APIs and MVC/MVT design patterns using Django/Flask frameworks.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, JavaScript and JQuery  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS5, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, RabbitMQ, Jdk1.7  • Experience in project deployment using Jenkins/Heroku and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3  • In-depth understanding of the principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management in Agile, SCRUM, Waterfall methodologies.  • Experienced in NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, Postgre SQL and MySQL databases.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, Postgre SQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  • Deployed Azure Iaas virtual machines (VMs) and Cloud services (PaaS role instances) into secure VNets and subnets.  • Assist DNS with research, creation, implementation and assessment of policies and procedures  • Good expertise in Golang programming.  • Programmed the invoicing web application using Golang and PostgreSQL as the backend.  • Expertise in Devops, Release engineering, Configuration Management, Cloud Infrastructure and Automation with Jenkins, Chef, Puppet.  • Hands on Experience in Hadoop ecosystem including HDFS, Spark, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, Impala, Oozie, Flume, Kafka, HBase, ZooKeeper, MapReduce.  • Experienced in React.js and working with React Flux architecture.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Functions, SAS Procedures, and Macros for data updates, data cleansing, and reporting.  • Resolution of problems in the Bluetooth framework in an ARM-Cortex-A9 based automotive platforms running the Windows Embedded Compact 7 system.  • Adept in using SAS Enterprise Guide for performing day to day programming in SAS.  • Extensive knowledge and Experience in dealing with mod_perl development in Perl CGI, Object oriented Perl, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • In-depth experience with VMware, VirtualBox, Open stack, Azure and Amazon Cloud Services and managing security groups in AWS.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP), and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in Assessing, Designing and Administration of Cloud Solutions (Iaas) based on VMware vRA/vCAC, vRO, vROps, PowerCLI in distributed environment.  • Proficient in Machine learning, Data/Text Mining, Statistical Analysis & Predictive Modeling.  • Experience with container based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and have knowledge on containerization orchestration using Kubernetes.  • Worked on different products like CS Tool, Configuration Tool, Restli Gateway  • Developed OOZie workflow on actions Spark, Linux script, HIVE scripts and HBase loads.  • Designed, configured and managed public/private cloud infrastructures utilizing Amazon Web Services, including EC2, VPC, Lambda, ELB, Cloud Watch and IAM.  • Used Python and PySpark to scrape, clean, and analyze large datasets  • Hands on SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Amazon EC2/S3.  • Hands-on experience in UNIX, and Linux Kernels.  • Worked with different Hadoop file formats like Parquet and compression techniques like gzip & Snappy.  • Experienced in building data models using machine learning techniques for Classification, Regression, Clustering and Associative mining.  • Support an Agile CI/CD Environment with Devops where we make the Atlassian tools (Jira and Bitbucket) and also provide layer 3 support on these tools if there are any issues  • Developed PySpark code to read data from Hive, group the fields and generate XML files.  • Experienced in developing Object Relation Mappings using Hibernate, JDBC, Spring JDBC and Spring Data with RDMS (Oracle, DB2, and MySQL) and NoSQL (redshift, Cassandra) databases.  • Experience in the field of Data warehouse using ETL tools such as Informatica Power Center, Power Mart 9x/8x databases as DB2, Oracle, MS SQL Server and Teradata.  • Strongly followed PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and Pylint.  • Experienced with build tools like Buck, Bit-Bake, Apache Ant, Apache Maven, Boot, Grunt, GNU  • Used Pandas library in Python for statistical analysis.  • Software experience in Python, C/C++ on Linux, Windows, Cross-platform and embedded systems.  • Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer.  • Implemented best practices of WebIntelligence Reports and BOBJ Universe Design to attain  maximum throughput  • Experience on using Amazon web Services like EC2, S3, SQS, RDS and Lambda.  • Experience of using Jenkins and Bamboo tools for continuous integration and continuous deployment.  • Experienced in UI Design and Development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js Bootstrap and AJAX that follows W3C Web standards successfully managing all facets of application development  • Experienced with web servers like Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Java, C++.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experienced in Python's modules NumPy, MatPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Proven ability to work in team environment as well as independently.  Effective Communicator: Work well with management staff and personnel at all levels. Equally comfortable dealing with customers, vendors, and the general public.  • Authorized to work in United States for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer UBS - Chicago, IL January 2019 to Present Description: Five9 is the leading provider of cloud contact center software. Five9 software creates more successful customer interactions while increasing contact center productivity, without the capital expense and maintenance costs of premise-based systems.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented different python libraries NumPy, SciPy, PyTables, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame and urllib2 in various tasks  • Responsible for using Django, a high-level Python Web Framework to build powerful APIs and Web Applications for desktop and mobile users using Python, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, Command Line, Redis and Graphic Design Software's  • Developed programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python, Java, Bash script, Windows command line.  • Developed GUI of the website using HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, Angular 2, React.js, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Provided high availability for Iaas VMs and PaaS role instances for access from other services in the VNet with Azure Internal Load Balancer.  • Building a Command line tool to interact with RESTful API using in Golang.  • Creating React.js / Flux / Redux front-end UI, and Node.js applications for backend.  • Build React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Implemented, designed and coded python user defined functions in PySpark.  • Built user churn prediction model based on user behavior data(16G) using PySpark ML.  • Followed Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Developed responsive web product features using React JS, SASS, on Golang with REST.  • Used ETL/SSIS and T-SQL stored procedures to transfer data from OLTP databases to staging area and finally transfer into data marts and performed action in XML.  • Designed, developed, and integrated a PostgreSQL database of ontological information with a proprietary Scala- based NLP pipeline.  • Developed strong knowledge of machine learning algorithms, metric-driven data set analysis and NLP techniques.  • The application layer for this project is Ruby which has a custom framework(Mojo) to build API's which can be consumed by other client in the internal system of Autodesk.  • Experience in the Hadoop ecosystem components like HDFS, Spark with Scala and pythonZookeeper, Yarn, MapReduce, Pig, Sqoop, HBase, Hive, Flume, Cassandra, MongoDB, Oozie, Kafka, Flume, and TEZ  • Developing and maintenance of new and existing web application features for both internal administrators and end users using Ruby on Rails.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Written Programs in Spark using Scala and Python for Data quality check.  • Build Apache Kafka Multinode Cluster and used Kafka Manager to monitor multiple Clusters.  • Built Data Ingestion Microservice to accept and validate raw metric data and publish to RabbitMQ as data  • Developed Data Processor Microservice to subscribe data from RabbitMQ, process data and trigger actions and persist data to MongoDB.  • Used various NLP libraries like Gensim, TextBlob, spaCy.  • Worked on cross browser compilation and responsive web design using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap  • Enhanced the PySpark code to replace spark with Impyla. Performed installation for Impyla on the Edge node  • Created, planned and executed multi-threading PySpark jobs on multi node spark cluster with UDF.  • Migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity  • Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop  • Review of the Automation scripts to make sure all the manual test cases and requirements are covered in the Regression suites.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC frameworks like AngularJS, OpenStack  • Used Django Rest framework for creating REST APIs and interacted with Jira using Jira Rest API  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling  • Used Apache CouchDB (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Parsing JSON files using PySpark and applying cleaning, extracting objects for transformations ready  • Performance tuning for data warehouse queries and indexes.  Environment: Python 2.7/3.0, Django, XML, Hadoop, pig, hive, PySpark, AWS, ETL, HDFS, HBase, mongoDB, Agile, RabbitMQ, SCRUM, PyUnit, Apache, CSS, MySQL, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, Shell Scripts, Git, Linux, Unix and Windows. Sr. Python Developer Hudson Insurance - Alpharetta, GA August 2016 to November 2018 Description: It is a worldwide financial group with diverse group of companies spanning in 19 countries.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Experience with ORM's such as Django and SQLAlchamy, database design and normalization.  • Used MVT pattern to encapsulate client/server interactions helps to illustrate software-pattern roles as well as developer roles by separating object, components, and services into multi-tiers with well-defined boundaries.  • DNS 53 bed facility. Responsible for the delivery of nursing services to include planning, implementing, and evaluating the care plan of each resident to maximize resident quality of life and quality of care with the integration of resident rights.  • Created numerous Django apps and extensively used Django Session and authentication management.  • Created new connections through applications for better access to MySQL database and involved in writing several SQL/PLSQL -functions, sequences, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and object types.  • Worked as ADNS/ infection control/ wound care.  • Site Reliability Engineering responsibilities for Kafka platform that scales 2 GB/Sec and 20 Million messages/sec.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and Python libraries.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Django, HTML, Python Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Rspec.  • Used numerous JQuery third party libraries in Django framework- feedback plugin, photo light, social-likes, jQuery tables, slick grid and google charts.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into AmazonCloud.  • Implemented LDAP authentication using device to integrate with an in-place web seal/TAM infrastructure.  • Extensive experience of working on Management tool and Automation tools HP Quality Center and Selenium  • Implemented product used to replace a large Nagios based monitoring system that was used to control "Just In Time" manufacturing of interior parts and exhaust systems.  • Our Continuous Integration stack consists of GIT, Jenkins, CI/CD, the Docker Trusted Registry and OpenShift Enterprise  • Wrote script to generate IP address from CIDR and write into JSON files and assign them to virtual machine while cloning.  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for JavaScript manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Understood the project scope, identified activities/ tasks, task level estimates, schedule, dependencies, risks and provided inputs to Module Lead for review.    Environment: Python 3.4, Django 1.8, Linux, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, MySQL, SQL, PLSQL, XML, Heroku, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, JSON, Restful API, MVC architecture, AWS EC2, GitHub, Rspec, Cucumber, Swagger. Jr. Python Developer Office Depot - Boca Raton, FL May 2014 to July 2016 Description: Western Digital Corporation is an American computer data storage company and one of the largest computer hard disk drive manufacturers in the world. Thrives for innovation.  Responsibilities:  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, NodeJS, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  • Used Django APIs for database access  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Developed embedded firmware in C to create custom images on Oscilloscope,DSP: Digital Communication, Adaptive • Targeted to pique interest on DSP and embedded systems for beginners  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs  • Enabling of the embedded Linux systems to support the development of the enterprise the network Unified Thread Management (UTM) products.  • Used PhP language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic 2014, using SQL developer tools.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server, PHP, Lamp, underscore JS. SQL developer tool. Full Stack Python Developer Fannie Mae - Washington, DC September 2012 to April 2014 Description: Financial company that buys mortgages of single family and multi family buildings from different banks and housing loan companies.  Responsibilities:  • Developed a part of UI using Java spring framework, JSPs, javascript, jquery.  • Developed a web-based reporting system with Java, J2EE, Servlets, EJB and JSP using Spring framework HTML, JavaScript.  • Developed python code using cx_oracle to retrieve data from oracle database, also retreived data from different data models and pass the data through other data models.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Build numerous Lambda functions using python and automated the process using the event created.  • With using of Python OS module on Linux environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Worked on Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Worked on Element Tree XMLAPI in Python to parse XML documents and load data into database and also from database to XML documents.  • Designed some of the SAS data models using Base SAS and SAS Macros.  • Modified and created SAS datasets from various input sources like flat files, CSV, and other formats, created reports and tables from existing SAS datasets.  • Responsible for manipulating, transferring, managing and processing financial data in SAS using SAS Enterprise Guide under UNIX Platform.  • Worked on validating data resulting from data source migration from Netezza to SAS.  • Modified existing SAS programs and created new programs using SAS macro variables to improve ease and speed of modification as well as consistency of results.  • Generated JUnit test cases for testing various Java components.  • Handed Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user.  • Developed Project Specific Java API's for the new requirements with the Effective usage of Data Structures, Algorithms,and Core Java, OOPS concepts.  • Worked closely with the QA Manager, Team lead and developer to evaluate and enhance automation script to cover test area and test cases.  • Developed testing steps for GUI components.  • Involved in test execution and performed system Integration testing and regression testing.  • Involved in pre-UAT.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Response Time was monitored while running Baseline, Performance, Load, Stress and Endurance testing.  • Good Experience in Database Backups and Recovery Strategies and Expert experience in Hot and Cold Backup of databases.  • Developed Complex transformations, Mapplets using Informatica to Extract, Transform and load (ETL) data into Data marts, Enterprise Data warehouse (EDW) and Operational data store (ODS).  • Used ETL (SSIS) to develop jobs for extracting, cleaning, transforming and loading data into data warehouse. Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures & triggers, cursors for implementing business rules and transformations.  • Setting up Oracle read only replication with materialized views and developed scripts for automating the rebuilt process of replication.  • Strong knowledge of Oracle utilities like SQL*Loader, Export/Import, Data Pump and External Table.    Environment: Python 2.7, Base SAS, SAS Macros, oracle database, SAS Enterprise guide , putty, JQuery, winscp, MySQL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Toad, XML, Restful Web Services, JSON, Bootstrap, SQL, Jenkins, Jira, confluence, eclipse, intellij, Linux. Full Stack Python Developer Hca Parallon - Nashville, TN October 2011 to August 2012 Description: Financial company that buys mortgages of single family and multi family buildings from different banks and housing loan companies.  Responsibilities:  • Developed a part of UI using Java spring framework, JSPs, javascript, jquery.  • Developed a web-based reporting system with Java, J2EE, Servlets, EJB and JSP using Spring framework HTML, JavaScript.  • Developed python code using cx_oracle to retrieve data from oracle database, also retreived data from different data models and pass the data through other data models.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Build numerous Lambda functions using python and automated the process using the event created.  • With using of Python OS module on Linux environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Worked on Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Worked on Element Tree XMLAPI in Python to parse XML documents and load data into database and also from database to XML documents.  • Designed some of the SAS data models using Base SAS and SAS Macros.  • Modified and created SAS datasets from various input sources like flat files, CSV, and other formats, created reports and tables from existing SAS datasets.  • Responsible for manipulating, transferring, managing and processing financial data in SAS using SAS Enterprise Guide under UNIX Platform.  • Worked on validating data resulting from data source migration from Netezza to SAS.  • Modified existing SAS programs and created new programs using SAS macro variables to improve ease and speed of modification as well as consistency of results.  • Generated JUnit test cases for testing various Java components.  • Handed Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user.  • Developed Project Specific Java API's for the new requirements with the Effective usage of Data Structures, Algorithms,and Core Java, OOPS concepts.  • Worked closely with the QA Manager, Team lead and developer to evaluate and enhance automation script to cover test area and test cases.  • Developed testing steps for GUI components.  • Involved in test execution and performed system Integration testing and regression testing.  • Involved in pre-UAT.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Response Time was monitored while running Baseline, Performance, Load, Stress and Endurance testing.  • Good Experience in Database Backups and Recovery Strategies and Expert experience in Hot and Cold Backup of databases.  • Developed Complex transformations, Mapplets using Informatica to Extract, Transform and load (ETL) data into Data marts, Enterprise Data warehouse (EDW) and Operational data store (ODS).  • Used ETL (SSIS) to develop jobs for extracting, cleaning, transforming and loading data into data warehouse. Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures & triggers, cursors for implementing business rules and transformations.  • Setting up Oracle read only replication with materialized views and developed scripts for automating the rebuilt process of replication.  • Strong knowledge of Oracle utilities like SQL*Loader, Export/Import, Data Pump and External Table.    Environment: Python 2.7, Base SAS, SAS Macros, oracle database, SAS Enterprise guide , putty, JQuery, winscp, MySQL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Toad, XML, Restful Web Services, JSON, Bootstrap, SQL, Jenkins, Jira, confluence, eclipse, intellij, Linux. Full Stack Python Developer Confier Health solutions - Dallas, TX August 2010 to September 2011 Description: Pharmacy health care provider in united states. The company ranks 18th on Fortune 500. CVS Health's assets include CVS Pharmacy, CVS Caremark, CVS Specialty and retail clinic MinuteClinic.    Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM  • Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Designed User Interfaces using JQuery, Bootstrap, JavaScript, CSS3, XML and HTML5.  • Created a Handler function in Python using AWS Lambda that can invoke when the service is executed.  • Developed server side using PHP in both WAMP and LAMP server framework.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Designed and developed integration methodologies between client web portals and existing software infrastructure using SOAP API's and vendor specific frameworks.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Created a simple AWS Lambda function using python for deployment management in AWS.  • Design, investigation and implementation of public facing websites on Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Designed web UI components for various modules and used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Assist in the migration of existing SAS programs from SAS 9.2 to SAS 9.4 and validate the resultant datasets.  • Used Golang to log the different host system event and alert information to Cassandra database.  • Deployed Core OS Kubernetes Clusters to manage Docker containers in the production environment with light weight Docker Images as base files.  • Developed microservices on boarding tools leveraging Python and VSTS allowing for easy creation and maintenance of build jobs and Kubernetes deploy and services.  • Modified and created SAS datasets from various input sources like flat files, CSV, and other formats, created reports and tables from existing SAS datasets.  • Worked on different data formats such as JSON, XML and performed machine learning algorithms in Python.  • Used pandas, numpy, seaborn, matplotlib, scikit-learn, scipy, NLTK in Python for developing various machine learning algorithms.  • Working in oauth group to support 2-leg and 3-leg oauth including OIDC protocol.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria,  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Deployed on AWS EC2 using nginx and gunicorn  • Built a scalable, cost effective, and fault tolerant data ware house system on Amazon EC2 Cloud. Developed MapReduce/EMR jobs to analyze the data and provide heuristics and reports. The heuristics were used for improving campaign targeting and efficiency.  • Developed a functional design of AWS Elastic Map Reduce (EMR) specifications with respect to business requirements and technology alternatives.  • Configuration of AWS EC2 Auto Scaling groups and auto scaling policies.  • Developed PySpark code to read data from Hive, group the fields and generate XML files.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and AngularJS for page design.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  • Used Scala to convert Hive/SQL queries into RDD transformations in Apache Spark.  Environment: Python 3.0, Pycharm, Django, Docker, Amazon Web Services , AWS Lambda, AWS S3, JQuery, PyQuery, MySQL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, XML, Restful Web Services, JSON, Bootstrap, AngularJS, NodeJS, Flask, SQL, MySQL, Jenkins, Ansible, Git, GitHub, Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills C++, Django, Git, Html, Php, Python, Flask, Visio, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Apache, Linux, Eclipse, Java, jquery, Soap, Mongodb, Css Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical skills:    Operating Systems Linux, Windows 10/8/7/Vista/XP, Mac  Programming Languages Python 2.X, Python 3.X, C, C++, Java, SQL, PHP  Web technologies HTML, CSS, XHTML, Java Script, jQuery  Webserver Web logic, Apache Tomcat 5.5,6.0,8.0, NGINX  Databases MySQL, Oracle, Microsoft SQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Python Web frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask, web2Py  Development IDE PyCharm, Pydev Eclipse, Vim, Net beans, MS Visio, Sublime Text, Notepad++  Web Services SOAP, RESTful  Version Control Git-Hub, Sub Version  Build Tools GNU, Apache Ant, Apache Maven, Buck, Bit-Bake, Boot, Grunt  Cloud Frameworks Open stack, Helion.  Virtualization Platforms KVM, HPVM, Dockers.  Profiling Tools Cprofile, profile, tprof, gprof,  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall