Sr. Python Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> • 8+Year Experienced professional with technical exposure in diverse technologies like Python, Django, PostgreSQL, Linux, Java, MySQL and AWS.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, JSON, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Hands-on experience in SOAP and RESTful web services.  • Hands-on experience in relational database connections like DB-API connection management and query-based access to databases like PostgreSQL and MySQL in Python.  • Good understanding of storage concepts. Experience in designing and implementing Azure Storage.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Designed and developed scalable Azure APIs using Flask web framework in Python and Integrated with Azure API Management, Logical Apps and other Azure services.  • Expertise in PIP (community most used Python Package Manager), PyVows (BDD tool for Python).  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks-Pyjamas, Jytho, guidata, PyGUI, PyQt PyWebkitGtk and Experienced with Elasticsearch, Log stash and Kibana (ELK).  • Expertise in Crypto Blockchain (Bitcoin, Monaro, Bitcoin Cash) E-commerce platform built utilizing Python with Flask back-end and Jinja/JavaScript front-end.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stack. Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows 98 / NT / 2000 / XP / Vista / 7 / 8, UNIX, and MAC OS X.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Fremont, CA March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Maintained high degree of competency across the Microsoft Application Platform focusing on .NET Framework, WCF, Microsoft Azure, and SQL Azure.  • Used Windows Azure to deploy the application on the cloud and managed the session.  • Involved in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python OpenStack API's.  • Design, develop, and deploy engaging web applications using Python.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and pymongo.  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  • Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs, and created User Model for application.  • Developed a complete front-end application with Bootstrap.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services. Python Developer Schneider National - Green Bay, WI August 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in design analysis, integration and deployment.  • Participating in discussions with business/stakeholders and clients for gathering requirements.  • Communicating with the dev-ops team for the release activities.  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner for better understanding.  • Build Data Sync job on Windows Azure to synchronize data from SQL 2012 databases to SQL Azure.  • Worked with AWS in different servers to implement and test the code and develop a database.  • Experience in developing interactive Tableau reports and Dashboards using various visualizations like Chart-Box, Heat Maps, Tree Maps, Bubble Charts, Line diagrams, Bar Graphs, Geographic Visualizations  • Key role as a Tableau developer was analyzing Risk Appetite and CCAR data and building Tableau reports.  • Using Tableau Desktop 10X as a front-end BI tool to design and develop various interactive Workbooks, Dashboards, Stories and parameters based calculations.  • In-depth knowledge on Tableau Desktop, Tableau Reader and Tableau Server.  • Mastered ability to design and deploy rich Graphic visualizations with Drill Down menu option and Parameterization.  • Implement views using Context Filters to improve performance of Tableau Reports.  • Built various views using Sorting, Grouping, Dimension Hierarchies, Highlight Actions, Filters, Quick Filters, Actions, and Quick Table Calculations.  • Create different charts using Reference Lines, Trend Lines, and Forecasting in Tableau.  • Develop Interactive Dashboards by using actions, quick filters and parameter.  • Worked in conjunction with the other team members as well as client in the gathering of business requirement for developing reports.  • Providing day to day developer support to Azure customers by resolving escalated, complex technical customer issues on the Azure PaaS Services and delivering Azure  • End to end experience in designing and deploying data visualizations using Tableau.  • Deployed the reports and Scheduled Reports for the use of end users and customers.  • Extract relevant information from large amount of Data to help automate for self-monitoring, self-diagnosing, self-correcting solutions and optimize key processes  • Worked on data profiling and data validation to ensure the accuracy of the data.  • Designed the logical model using Erwin data model tool and developed the model physically by implementing and creating the datasets for the model with the raw data provided.  • Used Python for checking the dependencies between different datasets/modules.  • Gathering the data from Impala tables and Everest Data store using the Abacus studio and validating these data for the purpose of Reporting.  • Used Python for converting the Parquet files to CSV files and vice versa for creating the Kafka messages to give trigger for the calculators.  • Used Python to create the tableau Extract API which creates the Data extracts (tde files) from external data sources like csv files, SQL, Excel.  • Used different python libraries like SciPy, NumPy, and Pandas to create models for predictive analysis. sales and marketing data Marsh & McLennan Companies - New York, NY February 2014 to July 2016 New York,NY Feb 2014 to Jul 2016  Application,Software Development    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement study, Analysis and Design.  • Designed and developed JScript, GUI for user interface with various Server Controls (textbox, labels, data grid, data list, validations controls).  • Developed Custom User Controls to reduce the Complexity in User Interface Coding and provide better look and feel.  • Used Java Script for validating client side data entry screens.  • Used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) for maintaining appearance of Web Pages.  • Developed a desktop based application in C# .NET to keep record of customer, production, sales and marketing data. MS SQL Server used as database to store records.  • Designed and developed logical and physical database models. Designed logical database model (Entity- relationship diagram) using ER Studio.  • Analyzed existing Java-based application to identify weakness and opportunities for improvements, to outline system modification requirements, and to develop recommendations towards the development of new codes and reuse of existing codes.  • Responsible for providing support and analysis to the existing MS SQL server. Created Database objects like Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, and Rules etc. Created tables and provide constraints and user defined rules in the database.  • Wrote code using SQL Programming to perform database tasks such as inserts, updates, joins, and deletes in order to keep updated the existing ERP system in timely manner.  • Provided functional recommendations, training, and advanced documentation and data analysis support to project implementation teams throughout SDLC process such as planning, development and integration. Bank of America - Charlotte, NC November 2010 to August 2012 Application,Software Development    Responsibilities:  • An Application Developer designs and develops internet/intranet applications by setting expectations and features priorities throughout the development life cycle.  • Duties include determining design methodologies and tool sets  • Completing programming assignments, designing and conducting tests.  • This position will also be responsible for supporting the production/editorial team, and any shared team support duties. Education Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ September 2012 to January 2014 Bachelor's Skills Html, Bootstrap, Python, Numpy, Pandas, Scripting, Data analysis, Database, Mysql, Css, Linux, Unix, jquery, Ethernet, Bash, Eda, Pcie, Synopsys, Usb, Synopsys design Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Programming Languages  • Web Technology  • Database  • Operating Systems  • Data analysis Libraries  • Cloud services    Python, Bash Scripting, UNIX Command , C HTML, CSS, BootStrap, JQuery, JS  MapR ,MYSQL,  Linux, Mac and Windows,Pandas,Numpy  Azure,    • Protocols  • EDA/CAD/Software    PCIe, USB, Ethernet, DDR, I2C  U-cam PCB checking tool, Synopsys design compiler, OrCAD  PCB Designer, Cadence Allegro,oscilloscope