Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer Columbus, OH • Software Developer Professional having more than 6 years of experience in building software application and programming. Strong experience in design, development and deployment and customer support and experience in Service oriented architecture.  • Good experience in performing operations such as CRUD operations and writing complex queries with Oracle, MS SQL Server, and MongoDB and experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python (2,3) programming language.  • Experience in developing RESTful API's using Django REST Framework, consumed via Rectangular, a 3rd party Angular.JS service and Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Experience with the data architecture including data ingestion pipeline design, Hadoop information architecture, data modeling, data mining, machine learning and advanced data processing frameworks.  • Hands on experience with Build Automation tool like Maven, and version control tools such as Git, and GitHub.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon Cloud Front) and Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Working Experience on various Python (2.0 and 3.0) packages such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy, big data software, Matplotlib and scipy and Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts and bash scripting.  • Experience in Web Application Development, hands on experience of Python/Django, Flask, SQL Alchemy, SQLite, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and JSON/AJAX.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Proficient with structures, semi-structured and unstructured data, using a broad range of data science programming languages and big data tools including R, Python, Spark, SQL, Scikit Learn, Hadoop MapReduce.  • Experience in Python's modules NumPy, Matplot for generating complex graphical data, the creation of histograms and experience in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework and experience in Big data, Bigdata Integration and Analytics technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, Kafka, Storm.  • Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts and strong experience writing API's and Web Services in PHP and Python.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server-side application Django and experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Expertise in software development environments with machine learning algorithms and deep learning frameworks such as TensorFlow, scikit-learn, Computational and Recurring Neural Network.  • Skillful involvement in creating in python by developing software's utilizing new tools, libraries utilized: Numpy, SciPy, Pyside, Python-twitter, matplotlib, Pickle, MySQL to improve software development process.  • Experienced with full software development life cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Pinterest - San Francisco, CA March 2018 to Present • Involved in tasks Designing, Developing and building a system using Python, Shell Scripts & Perl to automate Oracle patching, Grid Patching, Upgrade, Migration & rollback.  • Used Python for data analytics, data wrangling and extracting data using Pandas, Matplotlib, NumPy and SciPy.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations, data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration and Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP Serializable JSON strings.  • Worked with React JS components, Redux Forms, Events, Animations and Router and Generated REST API using Flask, Django Frame work and Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows and Mac-OS.  • Designed and implemented open source AI frameworks - Pytorch, TensorFlow, Scikit-learn, Apache Open Source (Kafka, Storm, Spark) for NLP and ML Algorithms.  • Demonstrated experience in design and implementation of Statistical models, Predictive models, enterprise data model, metadata solution and data life cycle management in both RDBMS, Big Data environments.  • Managed and reviewed Hadoop log file and worked in analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using Py-Spark and Created Unix shell and Perl utilities for testing, data parsing and manipulation.  • Dealt with large amount of cloud data storage to Identify faces of same person from Image data storage and faces with similar features using Numpy, PIL, matplotlib, Pandas, OpenCV and Sci-kit learn Libraries.  • Installed Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven and Maven Repository and Deployment of apps using custom modules through Puppet as a CI/CD Process.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQL Alchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest and worked on writing UNIX shell scripts for scheduling the sessions for my testing process of ETL.  • Worked on virtual and physical Linux/UNIX hosts and involved in day to day administrative activities such as maintaining user accounts and providing advanced file permissions to specific users.  • Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server and Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • Exploring with the Spark improving the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, Pair RDD's, Spark YARN.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for local timestamp data manipulation and retrieval and storing it into MongoDB.  • Worked on Python/Django based web application, PostgreSql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services and worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Implemented data analysis with various analytical tools such as Python/SQL, Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, TensorFlow, Jupyter Notebook, and Anaconda.  • Deployed Application using AWS EC2 Standard Deployment Techniques and Worked on Amazon web services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tool such as chef. Python Developer Eli Lilly - San Diego, CA December 2016 to February 2018 San Diego, CA  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer and Worked with batch files and ran SAS programs using UNIX shell scripts.  • Used Pandas, NumPy, seaborn, SciPy, Matplotlib, Scikit-learn, in Python for developing various machine learning algorithms and utilized machine learning algorithms such as linear regression, multivariate regression, naive Bayes, Random Forests, K-means, & KNN for data analysis.  • Designed and developed integration methodologies between client web portals and existing software infrastructure using SOAP API's and vendor specific frameworks.  • Worked and used shell scripting to make it easy to create scripts, command and work with files, directories and other shell commands.  • Utilized Postgre SQL, data warehousing programs, Tableau, and other dashboard/visualization tool sets for data intelligence and analysis and worked with Hadoop architecture and the daemons of Hadoop including Name-Node, Data Node, Job Tracker, Task Tracker, and Resource Manager.  • Developed cross-browser/platform with ReactJs, NodeJS, jQuery, AJAX and HTML5/CSS3 to desired design specs for single page layout using code standards. Created UI from scratch using ReactJs.  • Built and maintained code libraries to support analytics using Numpy and SciPy and used Pygal and plot.ly for visualization of the data retrieved using Scrapy.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package and Engaged in understanding PHP Code and re-build the code in Python.  • Implemented client-side form validation to validate the user inputs before passing to back-end using ES6 and ReactJS and Worked with React-router, JSX, Babel, and React bootstrap.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations and Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management  • Designed and Developed the REST style web services using Python and Flask, Postgres Database.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance and Involved in develop the REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  • Illustrated data analysis with python packages such as NumPy, Matplotlib, Pillow, Sci-kit Learn and Pandas.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations. Python Engineer Dropbox - New York, NY May 2015 to June 2016 • Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and perform analysis using Django, PostgreSQL.  • Used React.js for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components and developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Worked on container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes.  • Performed Automation of the deployment of the Conductor application on AWS using high-end AWS architectural components and Developed multi-threaded standalone app in python and PHP to view performance.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib and pandas.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and Postgre SQL and Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Developed the REST API using Django for fetching the data from NoSQL MongoDB database.  • Maintained the continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and UNIX shell scripting.  • Involved in development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format and Used PHP language on lamp server to develop page.  • Used Pandas for Statistical Analysis in the application and Numpy for the advance math functionalities and Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Used PHP to write dynamically generated pages quickly and performed Python on LINUX for execution.  • Developed file cleaners using Python libraries and made it clean and worked on MVC architecture using PHP, Python as controller. Software Engineer Movado - Paramus, NJ January 2013 to April 2015 • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites and Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Involved in development of RESTful Web Services for getting and sending data from the external interface in the JSON format and Developed user interface using CSS, PHP, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked on several python packages like Matplotlib, Pillow, Numpy, SQL Alchemy, and sockets.  • Built Elastic search, Log stash and Kibana (ELK) to store logs and metrics into S3 bucket using Lambda function.  • Worked on developing CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, ReactJS and NodeJS) and REST based API and worked on Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  • Redesign and maintain existing internal web application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery, React JS  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection and migrated applications to the AWS cloud.  • Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster and Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT and Developed multi-threaded standalone applications using Python and PHP.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash and Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Angular.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Developing python programs by using boto3 to implement security by using AWS Cognito service.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Elasticsearch, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services. Education Bachelor's Skills Javascript, Jquery, Git, Android, CSS, MYSQL, PHP, python (6 years), django (6 years), flask (6 years), mysql (6 years), sql (6 years), nosql (6 years), HTML 5 (6 years), angular.js (6 years), aws (6 years), api (6 years), numpy (6 years), pandas (6 years), matplotlib (6 years), ajax (6 years), scipy (6 years), docker (6 years), maven (6 years), CI/CD (6 years), jenkins (6 years), spark (6 years), react.js (6 years), node.js (6 years), cassandra (6 years), mongodb (6 years), mvc (6 years), ASP