Full Stack Django Developer Full Stack Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Django Developer - Johnson & Johnson Brooklyn, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Django Developer Johnson & Johnson - New Brunswick, NJ June 2018 to Present J&J uses the management system that records item stocks and supplies across different locations. The system also records statistics on item usage, trends, and demand over time, which will then be analyzed by using Python modules, such as NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib to provide further information for business illustration and financial projections. The system is set up in such a way that it is automated and alerts its users on low supplies of specific items. I was mainly involved in developing and maintaining a backend web service, and created a REST service by using Django and Django REST frameworks, MySQL. As a full stack team member, I was also involved in creating the front-end single page application interface using Angular framework.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all phases of SDLC including Requirements Gathering, Design, Analysis and Testing of customer specifications, Development, Implementation, and Deployment of the application.  ? Developed and maintained the back end of the website using Django framework along with MySQL database.  ? Developed Service Layer that interacts with Django RESTful API to perform CRUD Operations.  ? Developed rich user interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular.  ? Designed and implemented Django web applications using Python and Django framework for the backend.  ? Used Ajax to call RESTful API and load data into web pages for development and testing purposes.  ? Utilized Python libraries like NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib to process project data and show diagrams for illustration and presentation.  ? Created SQL objects like Tables, Views, Indexes, Triggers, Temporary Tables and Functions.  ? Developed Single Page Applications (SPAs) with Angular framework.  ? Used Angular Component, Form, Event, Router, Animation to create the front-end of web applications.  ? Manipulated AWS services with AWS Command Line Interface (CLI).  ? Implemented AWS Lambda functions to send automated alerts using SNS services.  ? Responsible for writing testing scripts with Unit Testing Framework.  ? Used JIRA to identify and track bugs during testing.  ? Worked on Python multithreading.  ? Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular Framework.  ? Developed and deployed reliable Django web applications on AWSEC2 instances.  ? Automated JIRA processes using Python scripts.  ? Involved in designing the templates using Bootstrap, Angular and custom CSS.  ? Involved in implementation of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning performed by another team.  Environment: Python, Django, Django REST framework, MySQL, MySQL Workbench, Angular, JavaScript (ES6), TypeScript, AWS EC2, AWS ELB, Lambda function, unit test, Jasmine, Git, Jira Python / Django Developer / Angular Developer Whole Foods - Austin, TX January 2017 to May 2018 The web portal needed modification to incorporate new modules and new functionality to the existing code base. It had inventory, cart, order placement, shipping, payment and checkout modules. I was involved in the development of the inventory module with Django Framework which provides the details of the products in stock. Users can define the search criteria to list all subcategorized products and its availability or shortages. I was also involved in the front-end development with Angular and Bootstrap to create responsive web interface for internal users.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases SDLC like Requirement Gathering, Development, Design, and Implementation of the project.  ? Developed and maintained the backend inventory module by using Python, Django and Django REST frameworks.  ? Designed and developed the application in Python using Django MVC.  ? Integrated Python with Web development tools and Web services.  ? Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python scripts using Python MySQL connector.  ? Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP and RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  ? Implemented RESTful API by using Django REST Framework (DRF).  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface by using Angular.  ? Managed relational database applications with Django ORM framework and MySQL database.  ? Used Unit Test framework for backend testing.  ? Developed UI interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and Angular.  ? Handled all the front-end validations using Angular Forms.  ? Used Jasmine framework for front-end testing.  ? Developed and deployed applications by using Jenkins to facilitate Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  ? Used Git for version control and Jira for bug tracking.  ? Involved in Agile Software Development, User Stories and Sprint Backlog on a regular basis.  Environment: Python, Django Framework, Django REST Framework, MySQL, TypeScript, Angular, Jasmine, AWS EC2, AWS S3, SES, CloudWatch, Git, Jira Python Developer / Django Developer Smart Soft International - Atlanta, GA September 2015 to December 2016 My involvement was to develop the website for the company that can be used over intranet. I was involved in building the backend of the website with Django and Django REST frameworks and creating custom Django templates and views. I was also involved in building the front-end with Angular, Bootstrap.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all phases of SDLC including Requirements Gathering, Design, Analysis and Testing of consumer specifications, development, implementation, and deployment of the application.  ? Used pip to install Django, Django REST frameworks.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django framework.  ? Used Django MVT framework to separate presentation logic from business logic.  ? Implemented the web application with custom Models, Views, and Templates.  ? Implemented the backend of the web application with Django and Django REST frameworks.  ? Developed RESTful APIs using the Django REST framework, tested the RESTful APIs with Postman and integrated front-end and Django backend by using RESTful APIs.  ? Involved in Database design and SQL development.  ? Used MySQL database to store project data.  ? Used Angular and Bootstrap to build the front-end.  ? Developed custom directives and services in Angular to share common functionality among different components.  ? Used Git version control to develop and maintain the project with multiple features in different branches which were later merged into a single branch.  ? Used Jira for bug tracking and agile project management.  Environment: Python 3.5, Django, Django REST, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular, unit test, Jasmine, MySQL, MySQL Workbench, Git, Jira Python / Django Developer Dacheng Tutoring - Brooklyn, NY August 2014 to August 2015 I was responsible for creating and maintaining the backend of the website that provided the detailed information about the school's enrollment, courses management, and test scheduler, and service charges. I involved in developed both back-end and front-end of the application which was using Django Framework, JavaScript, Bootstrap and HTML.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed web applications using Python 3 and Django.  ? Responsible for creating the Django application with custom models, views, and routing.  ? Created custom models and used Django ORM to perform CRUD operations with Python language.  ? Developed Django views and templates to create user-friendly website interface.  ? Implement Django routing for URL patterns mapping.  ? Utilized MySQL to create databases and tables.  ? Used MySQL Workbench to view, edit and remove data entries.  ? Developed the front-end with vanilla JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML.  ? Used JavaScript callback functions to add new features in the front-end.  ? Used Bootstrap grid system to make the page look more organized.  ? Used custom CSS to perform animations.  ? Used Git version control to develop and maintain the web application.  ? Deployed the web application on a remote virtual server provided by a paid hosting service.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Apache, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, GIT Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering Tsinghua University - Beijing, CN 2006 Skills C++, Django, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Typescript, Vs code, Oauth, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Sqlite, Html5, Unit test