Python Developer/QA <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/QA Python Developer/QA - Quanta USA Computers Fremont, CA • 5 years of experience in Design, Development and analysis of Python, Django and client-server technologies-based applications.  • Experienced in HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Expert in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts using Python and Java.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, NetBeans  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications Django.  • Developed web applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Used Jenkins for continuous Integrity and Deployment.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Familiar with XML/JSON based SOAP and REST web services.  • Good experience in handling errors and exceptions.  • Experienced in debugging the issues.  • Experience in relational databases like Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, MS SQL server, developing PL/SQL packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, Views, Indexes, Triggers, XML join, user defined data types and other complex queries.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with the DDL and DML queries  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java API, Swing, HTML3/4/5, Flex, JavaScript, CSS2/3, JQuery, JDBC, JSF, JMS, XML  • Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Python, and Shell scripting.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing with unit test and integration testing.  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Experienced in developing applications using agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum and also using Waterfall methodology.  • Worked on various operating systems Windows XP/7/8/10, UNIX and Linux.  • Data manipulation.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development. Work Experience Python Developer/QA Quanta USA Computers - Fremont, CA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache  • Worked with AWS S3 service for storage.  • Used Elastic Bean stalk service to Deploy the product in AWS  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and AngularJs.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Django to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.    Environment: Python 3.6/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, AWS, API Gateway, Java, J2EE, REST API, Spring framework, HTML, Amazon S3, CloudWatch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. Python Developer ASA Computers Inc - Fremont, CA June 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Providing daily reports to the development team and the manager, participate in both the design and development phase.  • Participated in Daily stand-up meetings and provided status on work progress  • Strong understanding of MySQL database. Wring Queries on Existing schema for Analysis.  • Created database using MySQL and wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Automated all processes involved in server testing using Python and Ansible, saving engineers 2 hours daily.  • Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers  • Developed tool based on tmux for Linux platform using Python and tmux library, showing 9 panes to users to track information for multiple servers.  • Re-designed SaaS based user interface using PHP, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap, increasing work efficiency of sales team by over 60%.  • Automated building of Debian live environments using Vagrant and shell scripting, optimizing process by 90%.  • Leveraged Postman for RESTful API testing for web application to ensure coverage of all server endpoints.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many python bug fixes.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Working in team of developers to build and deploy, Linux, AWS.  • Involved in maintaining and editing Python scripts for application deployment automation  • Working on various Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm.  • Created Python scripts used to generate reports.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python  • Create, activate and program in Anaconda environment  • Applied HTML, HTML5, Java scripting and CSS for generating daily reports.  • Developed automatic generated reports using python and SQL.  • Design and implement the python scripts based on the requirement.  • Analyze the data using the Daily reports and work based on the requirement and targets, which discussed in the stand-up meetings.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many python bug fixes.  • Creation of python scripts for data access and analysis to aid in process and system monitoring.  • Involved in Agile methodology and scrum process.  • Participated in Design, Develop and deployment of the project.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.    Environment: Python 2.7, AWS, Devops, Django, Django Rest, CI/CD, GitHub, Ansible, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Vagrant, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Code, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. Python Developer Badger Maps Inc September 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Create an application using Django using RESTful API.  • Ensured high-quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data. Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript. Designed and developed the data management system using MySQL.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Automated dev environment setup using Vagrant, VMWare, and shell scripting, optimizing process by 90%.  • Wrote automated unit tests for RESTful API in Python and Django, receiving positive feedback from customers.  • Created backend notification system to post alerts to Slack using web hook API in Python, saving time for team members and improving work efficiency through receiving Slack alerts.  • Developed features for core product and RESTful web services utilizing Python, Django, JavaScript, jQuery, and HTML5, ensuring customers received better features which increased sales.  • Optimized SELECT query, adding unique id to all customers using PostgreSQL, Python, and Django, saving query time for fetching database from by 20 - 30%.  • Migrated payment gateway from Mixpanel to Stripe utilizing Python, Django, and Stripe API, minimizing % payment commission charges.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/creating new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environments: Django, JavaScript, MySQL, API, Vagrant, Postgres, PIP, unit and regression testing, Rest Framework, Python libraries, Data handling, and sorting. Software Developer DataSoft Inc November 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in peer code reviews and performed integration testing of the modules.  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components.  • Specification of platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Involved in designing of web application using Waterfall Model  • Designed each module using UML diagrams and drew the database tables using MySQL workbench and performing queries to insert, delete and retrieve using JDBC.  • Implemented with JSP using servlet codes and servlet and tested the application manually  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax.  • Involved in writing test cases using JUNIT.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Developed test plans and procedures from the requirement and specification documents  • Worked on Java based connectivity of client requirement on JDBC connection.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object-oriented concepts-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Involved in peer code reviews and performed integration testing of the modules.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, XML, PL/SQL, SQL, web services, JUNIT. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years), MYSQL (5 years), SQL (5 years), JAVA (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming/Scripting Languages Python, UNIX / Linux Shell Scripting (Bash), C, Java, JavaScript, SQL, Ansible.  Python Framework Django 1.10/1.11  Databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle 10g  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, XML.  Versioning Tools GIT, CVS, SVN  Tools and System IDLE, PyCharm, Atom  Web servers Apache  Operating systems Microsoft Windows, OS X, Ubuntu Linux, Windows Server