Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - JB Hunt Lowell, AR • 8 years of experience in Web/Application Development as a Python Developer in analytical programming using python with skills in analysis, design, development, testing and deploying software applications.  • Experience in application development using PYTHON, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Oracle, MySQL, NoSQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite.  • Experience with Django, flask, a high - level Python Web framework.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Strong knowledge of Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts and Experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark and No-SQL databases like Hbase and MongoDB.  • Hands on experience in Waterfall, Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Pleasant experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like IDLE, PyCharm, Eclipse, Net Beans, PyStudio and Sublime Text.  • Basic knowledge on Rest API and JSON Parsing, jQuery and Angular JS.  • Pleasant experience in Shell Scripting, UNIX and Linux.  • Experience with MATLAB for data analysis.  • Good Knowledge Objected Oriented Concepts, Data Structures and Design patterns. understand and experienced with the following; Plone, Pyramid, Django, Angular PostgreSQL, ZODB, Key Value Stores, Couchdb, Couchbase, Linux, Nginx, Varnish, ReactJS and Odoo.  • Good knowledge about frameworks such as Bootstrap and Foundation.  • Having Proficiency in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MySQL and MSSQL Server.  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Good knowledge of web services using SOAP, REST protocols.  • Good Knowledge of Waterfall and Agile methodologies and experienced on this.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like Django.  • Pleasant experience in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR, S3 and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  • Pleasant experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Strong understanding and experience in AWS EC2, network management and datacenter operations.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu Linux and UNIX.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications  • Very strong in full life cycle application development experience.  • Good analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Work Experience Python Developer JB Hunt - Lowell, AR August 2018 to Present Description: J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. is a trucking and transportation company that was founded by Johnnie Bryan Hunt, and based in the Northwest Arkansas city of Lowell.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented different python libraries NumPy, SciPy, PyTables, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame and urllib2 in various tasks  • Responsible for using Django, a high-level Python Web Framework to build powerful APIs and Web Applications for desktop and mobile users using Python, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, Command Line, Redis and Graphic Design Software's  • Developed programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python, Java, Bash script, Windows command line.  • Deployed mircoservices2, including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible Playbooks.  • Followed Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Used ETL/SSIS and T-SQL stored procedures to transfer data from OLTP databases to staging area and finally transfer into data marts and performed action in XML.  • Used Pentaho Data Integration Designer to create ETL transformations.  • Developed Complex transformations, Mapplets using Informatica to Extract, Transform and load (ETL) data into Data marts, Enterprise Data warehouse (EDW) and Operational data store (ODS).  • Worked on cross browser compilation and responsive web design using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap  • Wrote Unit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to Git  • Migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity  Worked on AJAX framework to transform datasets and data tables into HTTP-Serializable JSON strings  • Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop  • Using mongo DB to take care of the back-end calls with a lightning fast speed  • Installed and benchmarked Hadoop/HBase clusters for internal use  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis  • Wrote shell scripts for rolling day-to-day processes and it is automated  • Worked on Python Open Stack API's  • Worked on JavaScript MVC frameworks like Angular JS, Open Stack  • Used Django Rest framework for creating REST APIs and interacted with Jira using Jira Rest API  • Created entire applications using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling  • Worked on writing and reading data from csv and excel file formats in python.  • Built docker containers to sandbox python WSGI Apps.  • Used Apache Couch DB (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Used ETL (SSIS) to develop jobs for extracting, cleaning, transforming and loading data into data warehouse. Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures& triggers, cursors for implementing business rules and transformations.  • Held meetings with client and worked on the entire project with limited help from the client  • Performed testing on the applications using Robot Framework  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio  • Worked on python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database    Environment: Python, Django, XML, Hadoop, AWS, ETL, HDFS, HBase, mongo DB, Agile, SCRUM, PyUnit, Apache, CSS, MySQL, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, Shell Scripts, Git, Linux, Unix and Windows. Python Developer Best Buy - Minneapolis, MN May 2017 to July 2018 Description: At Best Buy Richfield, we specialize in helping you find the best technology to fit the way you live. Together, we can transform your living space with the latest HDTVs, computers, smart home technology, and gaming consoles like Xbox One, PlayStation 4 and Nintendo Switch. We can walk you through updating your appliances with cutting-edge refrigerators, ovens, washers and dryers.  Responsibilities:    • Worked on the development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Wrote scripts in python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypieweb Framework using Git, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, Underscore JS, CSS and JavaScript.  • Deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that are the main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Working knowledge of data science architectures, design patterns, and modules such as Keras, TensorFlow, Scikit-Learn, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, H2o, ML-Lib.  • Implemented CI tools Jenkins for automated builds and deployments.  • Used openpyxl Python library for reading and writing Excel files.  • Involved in the complete software development lifecycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Created database using MYSQL, wrote several queries to extract data from the database.  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server works on a website using SQL developer tool.  • Added several options to the application to choose algorithm for data and address generation.  • Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration on Amazon EC2.  • Hands on Experience in AWS Cloud in various AWS Services such as Route 53 Domain configuration.  • Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2.  • Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud watch.  • Gained Hands on experience Configuring Access Lists for inbound and outbound traffic RDS DB services, Dynamo DB tables, EBS volumes; to set alarms for notification or automated actions and to monitor logs for a better understanding and operation of the system availability regions.  • Designed, developed and maintained PostgreSQL database architecture.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Using Git to resolve and coding the work on Python.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  • The Unit test was improved, and the existing ones were also fixed.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.    Environment: Python, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, JavaScript, MYSQL, Django, Django Tastypie, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, SQL Alchemy, SQL, AWS, Apache Web Server, Git. Python Developer Visitors Converage- Santa Clara January 2016 to April 2017 Description: Visitors Coverage Inc. is disrupting the global travel insurance industry by leveraging technology to redefine the way travelers purchase and manage travel insurance. We truly believe that travel insurance should not be complicated, so we set out to find a solution to help travelers make the best decisions quickly and easily.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Involved in Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning.  • Built efficient Angular.js backend for client web application.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Cleaned and categorized the data with AWS Glue and made it available to search.  • Used AWS Glue API operations to interface with AWS glue services.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)    Environment: Python, Django, PyQT, Panda API, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Angular.js, Flex, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GITHub, MYSQL, Cassandra, Jira, agile. Python Developer Comcast - Mount Laurel, NJ March 2014 to December 2015 Description: Comcast Bill pay is a self-service web portal for the Consumer and Small business customers for online Bill & payment related functionalities. This includes online Bill Summary, Payments, Auto pay, Paperless billing, Payment history and Payment arrangements. These functionalities are also accessed by the call center reps through the internal dashboard with billing and payment information.    Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented SQL Alchemy, which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Apache, htaccess to provide authentication system for Django/MySQL sites  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Developed MapReduce jobs in python data cleaning and data processing.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using Django and GIT version control system.  • Designed and Developed Restful web-services for both consumer and producer using Django, Swagger, Gunicorn.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, Swagger, Hadoop, MySQL, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, AWS, Apache Web Server, MYSQL and Linux Python Developer Cygnus Software Pvt. Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2012 to February 2014 Description: Cygnus Software Pvt. Ltd., is a comprehensive healthcare management system based on its BlueGenet platform. It provides an integrated solution with which you could build a network of hospitals, general & specialty clinics, laboratories, blood banks, pharmacies and many others service providers. These can be linked even if located in a geographically dispersed area, all over the globe and in multiple languages.    Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Associate Developer Applabs Technologies Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to November 2012 Description: Applabs Technologies Pvt Ltd is a top company in the category Computer Software Developers, also known for Computer Software Testing, Computer Software Developers for Software Applications, Computer Software Developers for Product Development and much more.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web-based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Automated data extraction process from legacy system and used 'Nose' Testing framework with Assertion module to test many automated processes.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Developed weekly, monthly nightly job process through UNIX shell scripting.  • Thoroughly used Unit Test Python library for testing many python programs and block of codes.  • Also have rich experience on testing REST Full API like Facebook and Twitter.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's.  • Automation of testing using Python.    Environment: Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux, UNIX. Education Bachelor's Skills Application server, C++, Django, Git, Hbase