Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - State Farm, TX Dallas, TX • Experience in software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, re, matplotlib, Python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • In depth knowledge of different web frameworks Django,Zope, Pyramid.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle, no-SQL, Mongo DB, Cassandra  • Hands-on experience in UNIX and Linux Kernels.  • Efficient in using Python Spark API and efficient in using apache Spark.  • Efficient in using apache Hive and hive query language.  • Used Hive to analyses data by writing SQL like queries called HiveQL.  • Used Spark SQL to query structured data inside Spark programs using Data Frame API or SQL.  • Working experience on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services like EC2, S3, EBS, RDS, VPC, and IAM.  • Designed, configured, and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, SQS, IAM), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Provided security and managed user access and quota using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM).  • Build servers using AWS: Importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Used AWS lambda to run code virtually.  • Migrating physical Linux/Windows servers to cloud (AWS) and testing.  • Basic knowledge in Front end development technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript, DOJO, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Angular JS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Strong skills in writing technical and functional documents defined by the business requirements.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Maintained Automated Scripts and troubleshoot their issues for each Site Release, Feature, and, Small Enhancement Project.  • Well experienced in unit testing, integration testing and end-end testing.  • Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies.  • Experienced in performing tests for nondeterministic code, testing multithreaded code, test design patterns, and more.  • Involved in the issue resolution and Root Cause Analysis.  • Developmental experience on Windows NT/95/98/2000/XP, UNIX and LINUX platforms. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer State Farm, TX March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Closely worked with Product owners for gathering business requirements, design, development and deployment.  • Understanding product teams use cases to automate the manual task with phantom playbooks.  • Used GITLAB version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Installation and configuration Apache Web server on multiple servers.  • Created Python modules to extract data from external PostgreSQL.  • Designed Playbooks andapps for Phantom application.  • Designed and implemented a user-friendly website interface using Python and Django's view controller and templating language.  • Responsible Identifying and implementing mechanism to on-boarding multiple customers to phantom Production environment.  • Upgrading Phantom Orchestration servers'versions to latest versions using puppet configuration management tool.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Django, CSS and JavaScript.  • Responsible for maintaining Phantom application on multiple servers.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting Phantom web application in production environment.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Experience in using containers like Docker.  • Worked on creating and documenting POC for helping migrate the current application to micro service architecture. The architecture included Docker as the container technology with Kubernates and worked on with REST API.  • Using a Dockerfilecreated docker images, worked on Docker container removing images and managing Docker volumes.    Environment: Python 2.7, Linux, Django, Flask, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, Git, CSS, AJAX, Bug zilla, Apache Web Server, Apache spark, Phantom, Puppet. Python Developer Metlife Warwick RI - Warwick, RI August 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:    • Participated in the complete SDLC process. Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Created network architecture on AWS VPC, subnets, Internet Gateway, Route. Perform S3 buckets creation, configured the storage on S3 buckets, policies and the IAM role-based policies.  • Designed high availability environment for Application servers and database servers on EC2 by using ELB and Auto-scaling.  • Used Cloud-watch for monitoring AWS cloud resources and the applications that deployed on AWS by creating new alarm, enable notification service.  • Add project users to the AWS account with multi factor authentication enabled and least privilege permissions.  • AWS Import/Export accelerates moving large amounts of data into and out of AWS using portable storage devices for transport.  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Shell Scripting, Python.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JSON. Worked with Regular Expressions, URLLIB modules.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database and PyMongo.  • Integrating multiple databases and data sources in to one system.  • Managed and trained peers on the installation of MYSQL and in writing queries to achieve performance optimization.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Extensive hands-on engineering and implantation knowledge of leading container orchestration and infrastructure management tools (Kubernetes)  • Experience in Kubernetes& writing the scripts in Perl and Shell Scripts for managing various enterprise applications.  • Created multiple Python and UNIX shell Scripts for various application level tasks.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Django, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Git as version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked on creating and documenting POC for helping migrate the current application to micro service architecture. The architecture included Docker as the container technology with Kubernetes and worked on with REST API.  • Created Docker images using a Docker file, worked on Docker container snapshots, removing images and managing Docker volumes.  • Integration of Maven/Nexus, Jenkins, Urban Code Deploy with Patterns/Release, Git, Confluence, Jira.  • Developed automation scripting in Python (core) using Puppet to deploy and manage Java applications across Linux servers.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Participated in writing scripts for test automation    Environment: Python 2.7, AWS, Django, MySQL, Oracle 11.2, Linux, Django, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, XHTML, Git, CSS, AJAX, Bug zilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Apache spark. Python Developer TIAA - New York, NY March 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:    • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products, and processes.  • Experienced in build and deployment of Java applications on to different environments such as QA, UAT and Production.  • Build and deployment of scripts using python scripting, Shell to setup development and QA environments.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection. Migrated applications to the AWS cloud.  • Build and configure a virtual data centers in the Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse hosting including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups, Route Tables, Elastic Load Balancer.  • Used EC2 Container Service (ECS) to support Docker containers to easily run applications on a managed cluster of Amazon EC2 instances.  • Use AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java.  • Worked with Version Control tools like GIT.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML, json processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Packaging, build, Test and Deploy chain, SVN with Dev/Test/Prod Branching Model for weekly releases.  • Hands on standard of SCM tools (Git), CI/CD (Jenkins/Maven) process.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Co-ordinated with developers, Business Analyst and Mangers to make sure that code is deployed in the Production Environment.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds. Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Created branches in GIT implementation parallel development process.  • Created deployment request tickets in Bugzilla for the deploying the code to Production.  • Provided on-going support and administration for Jenkins, SonarQube, fortify scan, GIT and build automations.  • Integrated Jenkins with various Devops tools such as Nexus, Sonar Qube, Puppet etc.  • Involved in migration of CI tool stack from SVN to GIT, Maven to Gradle, Build force to Jenkins.  • Create Jenkins pipeline jobs for Puppet release process for module deployment, using Kanban methodology for Puppet development.  • Used Splunk for centralized logging and debugging, experienced in Installing, Configuring and Monitoring using NAGIOS.  • Developed GIT hooks for the local repository, code commit and remote repository, code push functionality and on Git Hub.  • Creating the Brokers for the use of Kubernetes, Kafka, zookeeper.  • Installed Jenkins on Linux machines and created master and slave configurations to implement multiple parallel builds.    Environment: AWS, GIT, Jenkins, Nexus, Django, Linux, Python/Shell script, Tomcat, SVN, Gradle, Nagios, Splunk, Kubernetes. Python Developer Zensar technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:    • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products, and processes.  • Wrote python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Followed Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python, Java, Java Script,  • Responsible for Amazon web services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tool such as chef.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • Worked with Open Stack Command-line client.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Worked on a resulting report of the application and Tableau reports.  • Hands on with tools Git/GitHub, Ansible, Artifactory, Jenkins, OpenStack, Balance, Node-Proxy, VMWare, and Open Source software to build automated testing and delivery pipelines.  • Built kubernetes environment deployed via terraform. Built AMIs with packer.  • Setup a Docker cluster built own PaaS and used Kubernetescluster for orchestration and testing.  • Deployed Docker containerized applications using Kubernetes in Google Cloud Platform(GCP).  • Log monitoring and generating visual representations of logs using ELK stack. Implement CI/CD tools Upgrade, Backup, Restore, DNS, LDAP and SSL setup.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Perform S3 buckets creation, policies and IAM role based policies  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Deploy applications on AWS by using Elastic Beanstalk.    Environment: Python 2.7/3.0, Django 1.5/1.8, AWS, C++, XML, Agile (SCRUM), PyUnit, MYSQL, CSS, MySQL, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.js, Shell Scripts, Git, Linux, Unix and Windows. Python Developer IVY COMPTECH - IN May 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:    • Involved in the analysis and development of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Contributed in developing a web services middle-tier in Python to integrate with an existing MySQL backend. Wrote several internal API utilities and micro services to carry out specific tasks.  • Wrote and executed exhaustive SQL queries using Python with help from various query builders in Python to frame the queries.  • Migrated MySQL to NoSQL data store using ETL processes using Python. Tasks included CRUD, elaborate cleansing of data and packing it into the expected format - JSON.  • Developed Python scripts to perform auditing tasks and generating Excel reports to support engineering a logistics, sales and inventory management system.  • Worked as assistant to Web Programmer in creating Django/Flask Web apps. Generated sample JSON format queries for testing REST endpoints.  • Frequently performed adhoc File IO tasks in python. Dealt with CSV, JSON, Text, XML and XLSX files. Used shell scripting to automate repetitive tasks.  • Followed a test-driven approach closely. Used Python's Unit Testing extensively.    Environment: Python, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Jira, Flask, REST, JSON, CSV, Excel, Eclipse Education Master's Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, C++, DJANGO, DOCKER, Git Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Cloud Amazon Web Services  Python Libraries Pandas, Numpy, urlilib, matplotlib, UnitTest, JSON, CSV, XML, XLS  Python Framework Django, Flask  Version Control Tools Git, Github.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, Bugzilla, ServiceNow, HPE Service Manager  Scripting Languages Python, Java, HiveQL, Advanced PL/SQL, SQL, IDE's Splunk,SQL Developer, IntelliJ  Languages C, C++.  Database Oracle 11g/10g/9i, DB2, MS-SQL Server, MySQL, MS-Access, PostgreSQL, NoSQL (Mongo DB), SQLite3  Software Development Lifecycle Agile Methodology, Scrum framework  Operating System Red Hat, Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, CentOS, Windows, Solaris, Mac OS,  Repository Management Nexus, JFrog, Artifactory  Build Tools Maven, Ant, Gradle  Web and Application Servers JBoss, Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, Web Logic, Nginx,  Container Orchestration Tools Docker Swarm, Kubernetes, EC2 Container Services.