Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Capital One Belleville, IL • Around 8+Years of professional experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various client-server applications in Python.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, MatPlotLib, Pandas, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, PyTables and MySQL for database connectivity to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle. Solid understanding of MVT design patterns.  • Experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django and Flask web application frameworks, with good understanding of ORM and SQLAlchemy.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and its usage in Python and Java.  • Worked on Python Libraries PyJamas and Jython and followed the best practices using PEP-8.  • Strong Experience in web based UI design and interface development using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on PostgreSQL, SQL Server, Oracle and NoSQL databases such as Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Experience of Web Services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Hands on Experience in Amazon Web services like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS.  • Experience in Object-Oriented analysis and design using embedded C, C++ and UNIX or LINUX Platform.  • Excellent in SQL, R and Matlab and able to write required queries.  • Hands on experience on OAM tools like LAMP, TWAMP.  • Good experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments(IDE) like PyCharm, Ipython Notebook, Spyder, PyDev, NetBeans and Sublime Text.  • Experienced with Shell scripting and UNIX commands.  • Experience in developing python scripts for automation and performing functional tests and data validation.  • Worked in ETL and data integration in developing ETL mappings and scripts, guided team for the transformations and all aspects of SDLC.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as SVN (Centralized Version Control System) and GIT (Distributed Version Control System).  • Knowledge of networking (TCP/IP, FTP, DNS, DHCP levels).  • Quick learner and flexible to work on multiple technologies  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used latest Video Conference Applications and worked extensively on them. Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions & packages for moving the data from staging area to data mart  • Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium WebDriver using Python API.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Updated and manipulated content and files by using Python scripts.  • Organized Python code using PEP8 online tool including documentation of scripts.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Installing, configuring and upgrading EMC Power-path for AIX servers.  • Installed Veritas Cluster Server on Solaris, with Oracle agent. Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users. Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Flask to connect front-end to back-end, CherryPy to build the server and word clouds to visualize movies.  • Performed daily administration functions, including database management, monitoring, performance tuning, backup & recovery and also general troubleshooting on multiple UNIX platforms and Windows Servers.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services(AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as Chef and Puppet. Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Sole engineer responsible for automated test design, frontend and backend feature implementation, and any other improvements to the test automation framework.  • Designed and implemented a distributed, QA infrastructure for automated testing of a multi process software product.  • Abided by PEP8 Python coding standard for Squish scripts.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django1.8, Java Script, CSS3, HTML5, XML, AJAX, Angular JS, MySQL, AWS, Py unit, Docker, IIS, Pandas, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, Py Charm, Jira. Python Programmer Zenith American Solutions - Dallas, TX August 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • The system provides health benefit plans to different user roles  • Analyzed requirements, and implement different functions model according to design.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Data Types like dictionaries, Tuples and Object Oriented concepts based Inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Used Python and flask to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Implemented Model View Control architecture in developing web applications using Django frame work.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data into database.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, Mango DB and VMWare API calls.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Participated in daily scrum to implement Agile scrum methodology helping the team maintain focus on the business objective with constant assessment and feedback.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, JQuery, Mango DB, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python Developer State of Illinois - Springfield, IL August 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Flask Web Framework.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS,and JavaScript.  • Used Python and flask to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Generated Python flask Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login and signup of online users.  • Generated various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Involved in the design and maintenance of the databases using Python and Python based API using Flask, SQL and PostgreSQL.  • Created RESTful and SOAP web services to sending and receiving data from multiple systems.  • Builds SQL, NOSQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Identified several hidden bugs caused by complicated multithreading issues such as race conditions and resolved them.  • Used MQ Series to send, receive and read the messages and also Created Queues.  • Involved in the deployment process of the application on WebSphere Application Server.  • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  • Prepared scripts to ensure proper data access, manipulation and reporting functions with R programming languages.  • Familiarity with Selenium Automation Framework.  • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing.    Environment: Python 2.7, Flask, HTML5, CSS, UNIX, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Shell Scripting, RESTful, Git, PostgreSQL, Sublime text. Python Developer Vanguard group inc - Valley Forge, PA January 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the User Interface for the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and JSON.  • Successfully migrated the database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity. Developed merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Rewrite existing modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database APIs to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined Function.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Used jQuery for all client-side data manipulation.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector MySQL package to retrieve information.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Maintenance and continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Supporting the data warehousing application to make sure the jobs are run as scheduled and the SLAs are met.  • Providing reports for business users for sales forecasting and planning.  • Maintaining the application for daily operations and scaling according to Business requirements.  • Involved in the Complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQt, .NET, PyQuery, Agile, SDLC, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, Windows, PostgreSQL, Numpy, SQLAlchemy. Java Developer Ectech Solutions Pvt.Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Used Struts framework to follow MVC architecture in the application server.  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC)  • Extensively used OOP concepts in overall design and development of system applications  • Developed web services in SOAP using WSDL.  • Developed front end code using HTML and JavaScript in JSP pages for portal pages  • Used JDBC for database access.  • Used Data Transfer Object (DTO) design patterns.  • Actively involved in system testing.  • Deployed the application on Jboss server and SVN for version control.    Environment: Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web sphere, JSP, SOAP, JavaScript, Html, JSF, Net beans 6.1, MySQL. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills HTML (5 years), JQuery (6 years), Python (6 years), scripting (6 years), Shell scripting (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages Python, C, C++, Java and Perl  Markup Languages HTML, JSON, XML.  Scripting Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, Shell scripting,  Frameworks Django, Flask, Angular JS, React JS.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, RESTful.  Version Control Tools SVN, GIT.  Programming Methodologies Waterfall, Agile.    Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu).  Databases Oracle, MySQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.  Deployment Tools Amazon EC2, Heroku.  IDE Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, Net beans, Sublime text, Ipython Notebook  Servers Apache, HTTP Server  Bug Reporting Tools JIRA and Bugzilla