Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Confier Health solutions Dallas, TX • Over 8+ Years of combined work experience in Analysis, Design, Big Data, Web Application Development, Management and Implementation of various stand alone, client-server enterprise applications.0  • Experience in implementing server-side technologies with RESTful APIs and MVC/MVT design patterns using Django/Flask frameworks.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, JavaScript and JQuery  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS5, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, RabbitMQ, Jdk1.7  • Excellent Programming skills at a higher level of abstraction using Scala and Spark.  • Experience in project deployment using Jenkins/Heroku and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3  • In-depth understanding of the principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management in Agile, SCRUM, Waterfall methodologies.  • Experienced in NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, Postgre SQL and MySQL databases.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, Postgre SQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  • Deployed Azure Iaas virtual machines (VMs) and Cloud services (PaaS role instances) into secure VNets and subnets.  • Assist DNS with research, creation, implementation and assessment of policies and procedures  • Good expertise in Golang programming.  • Programmed the invoicing web application using Golang and PostgreSQL as the backend.  • Expertise in Devops, Release engineering, Configuration Management, Cloud Infrastructure and Automation with Jenkins, Chef, Puppet.  • Hands on Experience in Hadoop ecosystem including HDFS, Spark, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, Impala, Oozie, Flume, Kafka, HBase, ZooKeeper, MapReduce.  • Experienced in React.js and working with React Flux architecture.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Functions, SAS Procedures, and Macros for data updates, data cleansing, and reporting.  • Resolution of problems in the Bluetooth framework in an ARM-Cortex-A9 based automotive platforms running the Windows Embedded Compact 7 system.  • Adept in using SAS Enterprise Guide for performing day to day programming in SAS.  • Extensive knowledge and Experience in dealing with mod_perl development in Perl CGI, Object oriented Perl, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • In-depth experience with VMware, VirtualBox, Open stack, Azure and Amazon Cloud Services and managing security groups in AWS.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP), and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in Assessing, Designing and Administration of Cloud Solutions (Iaas) based on VMware vRA/vCAC, vRO, vROps, PowerCLI in distributed environment.  • Proficient in Machine learning, Data/Text Mining, Statistical Analysis & Predictive Modeling.  • Experience with container based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and have knowledge on containerization orchestration using Kubernetes.  • Worked on different products like CS Tool, Configuration Tool, Restli Gateway  • Developed OOZie workflow on actions Spark, Linux script, HIVE scripts and HBase loads.  • Designed, configured and managed public/private cloud infrastructures utilizing Amazon Web Services, including EC2, VPC, Lambda, ELB, Cloud Watch and IAM.  • Used Python and PySpark to scrape, clean, and analyze large datasets  • Hands on SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Amazon EC2/S3.  • Hands-on experience in UNIX, and Linux Kernels.  • Worked with different Hadoop file formats like Parquet and compression techniques like gzip & Snappy.  • Experienced in building data models using machine learning techniques for Classification, Regression, Clustering and Associative mining.  • Support an Agile CI/CD Environment with Devops where we make the Atlassian tools (Jira and Bitbucket) and also provide layer 3 support on these tools if there are any issues  • Developed PySpark code to read data from Hive, group the fields and generate XML files.  • Experienced in developing Object Relation Mappings using Hibernate, JDBC, Spring JDBC and Spring Data with RDMS (Oracle, DB2, and MySQL) and NoSQL (redshift, Cassandra) databases.  • Experience in the field of Data warehouse using ETL tools such as Informatica Power Center, Power Mart 9x/8x databases as DB2, Oracle, MS SQL Server and Teradata.  • Strongly followed PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and Pylint.  • Experienced with build tools like Buck, Bit-Bake, Apache Ant, Apache Maven, Boot, Grunt, GNU  • Used Pandas library in Python for statistical analysis.  • Software experience in Python, C/C++ on Linux, Windows, Cross-platform and embedded systems.  • Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer.  • Implemented best practices of WebIntelligence Reports and BOBJ Universe Design to attain  maximum throughput  • Experience on using Amazon web Services like EC2, S3, SQS, RDS and Lambda.  • Experience of using Jenkins and Bamboo tools for continuous integration and continuous deployment.  • Experienced in UI Design and Development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js Bootstrap and AJAX that follows W3C Web standards successfully managing all facets of application development  • Experienced with web servers like Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Java, C++.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experienced in Python's modules NumPy, MatPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Proven ability to work in team environment as well as independently.  Effective Communicator: Work well with management staff and personnel at all levels. Equally comfortable dealing with customers, vendors, and the general public.  • Authorized to work in United States for any employer Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Confier Health solutions - Dallas, TX April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed a part of UI using Java spring framework, JSPs, javascript, jquery.  • Developed a web-based reporting system with Java, J2EE, Servlets, EJB and JSP using Spring framework HTML, JavaScript.  • Developed python code using cx_oracle to retrieve data from oracle database, also retreived data from different data models and pass the data through other data models.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Build numerous Lambda functions using python and automated the process using the event created.  • With using of Python OS module on Linux environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Worked on Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Worked on Element Tree XMLAPI in Python to parse XML documents and load data into database and also from database to XML documents.  • Designed some of the SAS data models using Base SAS and SAS Macros.  • Modified and created SAS datasets from various input sources like flat files, CSV, and other formats, created reports and tables from existing SAS datasets.  • Responsible for manipulating, transferring, managing and processing financial data in SAS using SAS Enterprise Guide under UNIX Platform.  • Worked on validating data resulting from data source migration from Netezza to SAS.  • Modified existing SAS programs and created new programs using SAS macro variables to improve ease and speed of modification as well as consistency of results.  • Generated JUnit test cases for testing various Java components.  • Handed Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user.  • Developed Project Specific Java API's for the new requirements with the Effective usage of Data Structures, Algorithms,and Core Java, OOPS concepts.  • Worked closely with the QA Manager, Team lead and developer to evaluate and enhance automation script to cover test area and test cases.  • Developed testing steps for GUI components.  • Involved in test execution and performed system Integration testing and regression testing.  • Involved in pre-UAT.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Response Time was monitored while running Baseline, Performance, Load, Stress and Endurance testing.  • Good Experience in Database Backups and Recovery Strategies and Expert experience in Hot and Cold Backup of databases.  • Developed Complex transformations, Mapplets using Informatica to Extract, Transform and load (ETL) data into Data marts, Enterprise Data warehouse (EDW) and Operational data store (ODS).  • Used ETL (SSIS) to develop jobs for extracting, cleaning, transforming and loading data into data warehouse. Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures & triggers, cursors for implementing business rules and transformations.  • Setting up Oracle read only replication with materialized views and developed scripts for automating the rebuilt process of replication.  • Strong knowledge of Oracle utilities like SQL*Loader, Export/Import, Data Pump and External Table.    Environment:  Python 2.7, Base SAS, SAS Macros, oracle database, SAS Enterprise guide , putty, JQuery, winscp, MySQL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Toad, XML, Restful Web Services, JSON, Bootstrap, SQL, Jenkins, Jira, confluence, eclipse, intellij, Spark,Linux. Sr. Python Developer Cincinnati, OH April 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM  • Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Designed User Interfaces using JQuery, Bootstrap, JavaScript, CSS3, XML and HTML5.  • Created a Handler function in Python using AWS Lambda that can invoke when the service is executed.  • Developed server side using PHP in both WAMP and LAMP server framework.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Designed and developed integration methodologies between client web portals and existing software infrastructure using SOAP API's and vendor specific frameworks.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Created a simple AWS Lambda function using python for deployment management in AWS.  • Design, investigation and implementation of public facing websites on Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Designed web UI components for various modules and used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Monitoring spark jobs using Yarn application.  • Developed Spark/Scala code to ingest data leveraging memory and optimizing performance  • Assist in the migration of existing SAS programs from SAS 9.2 to SAS 9.4 and validate the resultant datasets.  • Used Golang to log the different host system event and alert information to Cassandra database.  • Deployed Core OS Kubernetes Clusters to manage Docker containers in the production environment with light weight Docker Images as base files.  • Developed microservices on boarding tools leveraging Python and VSTS allowing for easy creation and maintenance of build jobs and Kubernetes deploy and services.  • Modified and created SAS datasets from various input sources like flat files, CSV, and other formats, created reports and tables from existing SAS datasets.  • Worked on different data formats such as JSON, XML and performed machine learning algorithms in Python.  • Used pandas, numpy, seaborn, matplotlib, scikit-learn, scipy, NLTK in Python for developing various machine learning algorithms.  • Working in oauth group to support 2-leg and 3-leg oauth including OIDC protocol.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria,  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Deployed on AWS EC2 using nginx and gunicorn  • Built a scalable, cost effective, and fault tolerant data ware house system on Amazon EC2 Cloud. Developed MapReduce/EMR jobs to analyze the data and provide heuristics and reports. The heuristics were used for improving campaign targeting and efficiency.  • Developed a functional design of AWS Elastic Map Reduce (EMR) specifications with respect to business requirements and technology alternatives.  • Configuration of AWS EC2 Auto Scaling groups and auto scaling policies.  • Developed PySpark code to read data from Hive, group the fields and generate XML files.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and AngularJS for page design.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  • Used Scala to convert Hive/SQL queries into RDD transformations in Apache Spark.  Environment:  Python 3.0, Pycharm, Django, Docker, Amazon Web Services , AWS Lambda, AWS S3, JQuery, PyQuery, MySQL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, XML, Restful Web Services, JSON, Bootstrap, AngularJS, NodeJS, Flask, SQL, MySQL, Jenkins, Ansible, Git, GitHub, Linux. Python Developer HCA Parallon - Nashville, TN January 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Experience with ORM's such as Django and SQLAlchamy, database design and normalization.  • Used MVT pattern to encapsulate client/server interactions helps to illustrate software-pattern roles as well as developer roles by separating object, components, and services into multi-tiers with well-defined boundaries.  • DNS 53 bed facility. Responsible for the delivery of nursing services to include planning, implementing, and evaluating the care plan of each resident to maximize resident quality of life and quality of care with the integration of resident rights.  • Created numerous Django apps and extensively used Django Session and authentication management.  • Created new connections through applications for better access to MySQL database and involved in writing several SQL/PLSQL -functions, sequences, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and object types.  • Worked as ADNS/ infection control/ wound care.  • Site Reliability Engineering responsibilities for Kafka platform that scales 2 GB/Sec and 20 Million messages/sec.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and Python libraries.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Django, HTML, Python Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Rspec.  • Used numerous JQuery third party libraries in Django framework- feedback plugin, photo light, social-likes, jQuery tables, slick grid and google charts.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into AmazonCloud.  • Implemented LDAP authentication using device to integrate with an in-place web seal/TAM infrastructure.  • Extensive experience of working on Management tool and Automation tools HP Quality Center and Selenium  • Implemented product used to replace a large Nagios based monitoring system that was used to control "Just In Time" manufacturing of interior parts and exhaust systems.  • Our Continuous Integration stack consists of GIT, Jenkins, CI/CD, the Docker Trusted Registry and OpenShift Enterprise  • Wrote script to generate IP address from CIDR and write into JSON files and assign them to virtual machine while cloning.  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for JavaScript manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Understood the project scope, identified activities/ tasks, task level estimates, schedule, dependencies, risks and provided inputs to Module Lead for review.    Environment:  Python 3.4, Django 1.8, Linux, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, MySQL, SQL, PLSQL, XML, Heroku, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, JSON, Restful API, MVC architecture, AWS EC2, GitHub, Rspec, Cucumber, Swagger. Python Developer KLA Tencor - Milpitas, CA September 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, NodeJS, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  • Used Django APIs for database access  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Developed embedded firmware in C to create custom images on Oscilloscope,DSP: Digital Communication, Adaptive • Targeted to pique interest on DSP and embedded systems for beginners  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs  • Enabling of the embedded Linux systems to support the development of the enterprise the network Unified Thread Management (UTM) products.  • Used PhP language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic 2014, using SQL developer tools.    Environment:  Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server, PHP, Lamp, underscore JS. SQL developer tool. Java Developer Softapps technologies - New Delhi, Delhi May 2011 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading.  • Worked on MVC pattern, using various frameworks.  • Worked on WebSphere as application deployment servers.  • Designed the Database, written triggers and stored procedures.  • Developed screens based on jQuery to dynamically generate HTML ad display data to the client side.  • Worked on JavaScript frame work to augment browser-based applications with MVC capability.  • Involved in development of various controller classes as a part of MVC framework.  • Worked in referential data service module to interface with various databases using JDBC.  • Implemented REST and SOAP based web services and published using JAX-WS.  • Worked on Oracle Database to store and retrieve information using SQL Developer.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE's for build, debugging and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  • Developed Build Script using MAVEN.    Environment:  Java 1.6, 1.7, Java EE 6, JavaScript, jQuery, Struts, Eclipse, Tomcast, SQL Developer, Oracle Database 11g, JDBC, Template, WebSphere, SOAP UI, Maven, REST, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills C++, Django, Git, Html, Php