Sr. Python developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Python developer - General Motors San Francisco, CA • 7+ years of IT experience in Design, Development, Testing, and Deployment of various applications using Python/Django.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, object oriented design, object oriented programming and database design.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python/Django, PHP, C++, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript and Angular.js.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Extensive experience with multiple technologies like Python 3.4/2.7, Perl 5.1, C++, Shell Scripting, core Java and C.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python) Architecture.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework and Working Knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using UnitTest/pytest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Good knowledge on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap.  • Expertise in working with different databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra, MongoDB (2.6,2.4)  • Good understanding of Object-Oriented Technologies and Relational Database Systems.  • Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Good knowledge in Ruby on Rails (Ruby 1.9.3 and Rails 4) in developing user friendly and effective web-based applications.  • Hands on experience in working with the Cassandra Query Language (CQL) for querying the data present in the Cassandra.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters and worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins and version control tools such as Git, SVN, CVS, JIRA.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, SQLAlchemy, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, wxPython).  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like IDLE, PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, PyStudio and Sublime Text.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, SciPy.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services(AWS).  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format and also worked on web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Experience in working on different operating systems-windows, iOS, Linux also strong development experience on Linux based operating systems such as Ubuntu, Red Hat and CentOS.  • Good Knowledge of Waterfall and Agile methodologies and experienced on this.  • Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  • Good analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python developer General Motors September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on server-side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using machine library like Numpy and SQL Alchemy for Insurance premium.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Created User Interface (UI) using JavaScript, bootstrap, Angular.js and HTML5/CSS.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used jQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and Cassandra.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Build Cassandra queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Created Database Objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers, Rules, Defaults, user defined data types and functions.  • Bootstrap is used as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful APIs web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  Environment: Python 3.3, Django, HTML5/CSS, Cassandra, JavaScript, PyCharm, GIT, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, AWS S3 CLI, Vagrant, Docker, Confluence. Python Developer (Full Stack) Pioneer Hi-Bred International - Pioneer, IA January 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM applications.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy and matplotlib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and MongoDB.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for JavaScript manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end HTML layout.  • Information extraction was done by using RESTful API.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Followed Agile development methodology to develop the application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  Environment: Python 2.7, SciPy, Pandas, Bugzilla, Git, C++, Java, JQuery, MongoDB, IntelliJ IDEA, Shell Scripting, HTML4/CSS, Red hat Linux, Apache Tomcat 7.0. Python developer BNY MELLON - New York, NY June 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using Oracle 11 g.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a web pages for front end applications.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, C++, Java, JQuery, SVN, Oracle 11.1, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML4.0 Red hat Linux. Python Developer Century Link - IN October 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting meetings with various business users.  • Worked with a team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web based apps for various bank applications.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used CVS SVN to resolve and coding the work on Python.  • Performed pytest and unit test on them. Extracted XML code from script for testing.  • Created database using SQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Used Pandas library for statistical analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Interest calculations.  Environment: Python 2.6, Django, MySQL, Java, XML, Perl, SVN, UNIX, Apache Tomcat 6.0, MS SQL server 2002, SQL. Java Developer ING VYSYA BANK - IN August 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the maintenance, development and production support for the cyber branch Loan Originating System product. 3  • Involved in the requirement analysis, technical design, Coding and unit testing for the new enhancements.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Worked on the enhancements for the existing pages using servlet, JPA technologies with MS SQL server as the back end. The pages were developed using HTML, Velocity and JavaScript for client side validation.  • Used Perforce for the version control.  • Designed and developed the application using Waterfall methodology.  • Developed the Loan approval using credit rating from partner banks module.  Environment: Java, JPA 1.0, Servlets, JavaScript 1.7, MySQL, Waterfall HTML 4.0, MS SQL server 2000. Education Bachelor's Skills html (5 years), Java (6 years), Python (6 years), Subversion (4 years), SVN (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating systems Windows, iOS, Linux Ubuntu  Languages Python, Java, C, C++, Perl, PHP, Ruby  Frontend Technologies CSS, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, Angular JS, JSON  Analytics Tools PyTables, PySpark, Pandas, matplotlib, Tableau, Bokeh, HighCharts  Markup languages HTML, XML  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, Apache HTTP  Databases Oracle, MySQL, Cassandra, MongoDB  IDE PyCharm, Sublime text, Eclipse, Toad, Spyder, PyStudio, IntelliJ IDEA.  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN, CVS, JIRA, Code Collaborator  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum  Cloud AWS (EC2, S3, RDS, ElastiCache etc.), OpenStack