Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Federated Wireless Arlington, VA ? 6 years of experience in developing web-based applications and design using Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JAVA, AngularJS, jQuery and C++.  ? Worked on applications and developed them with XML, JSON, XSL (PHP, Django, Python, Rails).  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  ? Good Experience in programming and object-oriented programming using Python and C++.  ? Experience in using Beautiful Soup python package for parsing HTML and XML documents.  ? Worked on the front-end applications experience using HTML and CSS.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python).  ? Expertise in designing and developing Web applications using HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular.js, Backbone.js, TypeScript, ES6, Redux, React, Bootstrap.  ? Experience working on scalable environment using Agile/SCRUM methodologies.  ? Excellent experience in GitHub and Tortoise SVN for source code management and for version control.  ? Experience working on JIRA which is managing project requirements and tasks, tracking issues.  ? Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm.  ? Experience working on Source Tree, Stash, Confluence and Bamboo applications powered by Atlassian.  ? Designed and developed application using Core Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets), spring and Oracle.  ? Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, S3 buckets, Virtual Private Clouds (VPC), Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).  ? Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  ? Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  ? Experience in creating JSON scripts for Cloud Formation based on requirements and launch stacks.  ? Created AWS Security Groups for deploying and configuring AWS EC2 instances.  ? Creating snapshots and Amazon machine images (AMIs) of the instances for backup and creating clone instances.  ? Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services.  ? Strong knowledge of OOP (Object Oriented Programming) and applying OO principles in full Software Development Life Cycle  ? Experience in cross browser and cross-device compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing using Jasmine, Mocha, JUnit and Karma.  ? Expertise in Java, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Struts 2.0, Spring, Spring MVC Hibernate, RESTAPI, Enterprise java Beans, JDBC Hands on experience in DBMS like Oracle, Node.js, MySQL, MS-Sql, Toad, Crud, Postage SQL.  ? Experienced in web/application servers like Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss and WebLogic  ? Set up, configured, and maintained multiple web/application servers like IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat and BEA WebLogic. Experienced in Managing build files using ANT and logging using Log4j.  ? Experienced in writing test-cases in Java environment using JUnit.  ? Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows, Linux, UNIX, AIX and UNIX Shell Script.  ? Sequence, class and database diagrams are made using the UML design tool and RAD.  ? Experienced of Databases that involve writing SQL queries, Views, Triggers and Stored Procedures.  ? Experience on RUP, Agile/Scrum and Extreme Programming (Test Driven development, Pair Programming, Code Reviews).  ? Proficiency with the application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBOSS and Tomcat.  ? Proficient in Object oriented design experience, with extensive experience of Python-C/C++ binding using Boost Python and Python C types.  ? Experiences with File Handling and SSH (Secure Shell).  ? Working knowledge of errors and exceptions handling debugging using PDB, Eclipse and Pycharm.  ? Experience with Docker, deployment of application inside software containers.  ? Excellent Debugging, Problem Solving, Optimization and Testing Skills using GitLab  ? Experience in Python Development and Scientific Programing and using Numpy and Pandas in Python for Data Manipulation. Work Experience Python Developer Federated Wireless - Arlington, VA April 2018 to Present Responsibility:-  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of users.  ? Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python. Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Worked with systems engineering team to plan and deploy new Hadoop environments and expand existing Hadoop clusters.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  ? Documented the requirements including the available code which should be implemented using Spark, Hive, HDFS, HBase and Elasticsearch.  ? Used Jenkins for continuous integration services and used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Used the Django Framework to develop the application and Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  ? Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Django.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  ? Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  ? Developed internal project in Django to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Django framework with Angular.js and Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  ? Set up rules and policies with a Node.js/ Python back end.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Used Django framework for application development.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met. Python Developer Matlen Silver - New York, NY July 2014 to May 2017 Responsibility:  ? Built database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution  ? Use Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  ? Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.  ? Developed a portal to manage the entities in a content management system using Flask.  ? Wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy and sqlalchemy.  ? Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  ? Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF and REST.  ? Responsible for managing large databases using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system • Developing Python scripting Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST scripts for API Integration.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python scripting matplotlib library.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and AWS architecture.  ? Built an AWS and REDIS server for storing the data and performed defect analysis and interaction with Business Users during UAT/SIT.  ? Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  ? Created hourly or daily builds automatically and also deployed builds to production environment. Used Jenkins for continuous integration (CI) and continuous deployment (CD).  ? Developed and maintained parsing modules, which read CSV, XML and JSON data from files and other REST services, processed the data.  ? Applied REST API development via Django REST Framework model to develop an information management system.  ? Involved in testing RESTful API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.  ? Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python scripting for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Created Git repository and added to GitHub project.  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  ? Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations.  ? Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web-based logic rather than correlation and parameterization.  ? Used Robot framework for test Automation integrated with Jenkins.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application. Python Developer Citi Bank - New York, NY March 2013 to June 2014 Responsibility:  ? Built a GC analytic tool using Python, to help clients analyze data and profile risk against a wide spectrum of reinsurance options.  ? Developed custom reports using HTML, Python and MySQL.  ? Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  ? Documented the revised workflow using confluence wiki.  ? Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Django with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Key performance index and filtering of displayed columns to help customers understanding the analytic data.  ? Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  ? Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL.  ? Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  ? Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  ? Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view.  ? Used GitHub for version control.  ? Implemented admin sites to manage database information with Django Admin, MySQL and SQLite  ? Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Worked in an agile development environment. Education Master's Skills Git, CSS, PHP, Javascript, MYSQL