Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> 6147696658 Woodlandhills, CA Around 5+ years of experience in Python with Development, Application/Data Integrations projects, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Data Migration, Business Process Re-engineering, Stakeholder Management, Business Analysis, Change Management, System Development, Testing experience in various domains. Worked on end-to-end solutions, production support, architecting and enhancements.    • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, Python -twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL DB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django web application frameworks  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, Javascript and JSON  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask and Django  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Write MATLAB code to create discretized computer models of sloped levy geometries.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Leveraging queueing architectures with Rabbit MQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Experienced in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Work Experience Python Developer Woodland Hills, CA August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Write Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files. Involved in building database Model, APIs, and Views utilizing Python technologies to build applications.  • Visualize and manipulate the data using various machine learning libraries like Numpy, Scipy and Pandas in Python scripts for the perfect analysis of data.  • Create ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) design mapping sheets, data reconciliation strategy, data archival strategy- ETL framework.  • Used Pyodbc to connect the python application to the SQL server driver and also used Bulk Copy Program (BCP) in the application to import and export large sets of data.  • Experience with Python Pickling. Used the Pickles to store the data and load the pickles and merge the latest customer information into the pickles.  • Prepare Scripts in Python and Windows PowerShell for Automation of administration tasks. Maintain PL/SQL objects like packages, triggers, procedures etc.  • Expertise in code review for the code developed by team and suggesting the relevant and appropriate changes.  • Experience in writing various regular expressions (regex) and find the match in data.  • Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to better understanding for user.    Environment: Django, Flask, REST API, Pickling, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, MongoDB, SQL server, MySQL, Shell Scripting, Bootstrap, PSP, Pyodbc, BCP, Android, Responsive Web Design. Python Developer Freddie Mac January 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Utilized Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Writing backend programming in Python and used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Designed the frontend application using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed RESTful services using Django.  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using Python -twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Participated in developing ETL components for executing various workflows  • Hands on experience running hive queries on spark shell.  • Perform Data Munging, Data Concatenation and merging  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud  • Hands on experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Trained team members extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum stand ups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with clients.  Environment: Python, Django, RabbitMQ, Soap UI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, Agile. Jr. Software Engineer ( Python) JP Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Education Master's Skills JAVASCRIPT (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), SQL (3 years), AWS (3 years), BOOTSTRAP (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages & Frame Work Java, J2EE, Servlet, Hibernate and Spring Boot, Spring, Python, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular JS, JavaScript, Polymer, JSP, JSF  Databases Oracle, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, H2, Redshift, Greenplum  Operating Tools Share Point, GE box, Service Now, GE Service Now and IDM  Application Servers JBOSS, Tomcat, Jetty and Spring Boot inbuilt server  Domain Power & Water, Transportation, Renewable Energy, Crowdfunding  Cloud Infrastructure Predix, Cloud Foundry, AWS  Search & Logging Tools ELK Stack, Kibana and Google Search Applicances Enterprise  Code Quality & Analysis Tools SonarQube, Checkstyle, Coverisyt, Find bugs, Tinfoil and Junit  Security Tools UAA/OAuth, Spring Security, Vera Document Secure and Adobe digital rights management  CI/CD Tool Jenkins and AWS Cloud deploy  IDE Tools & Utilities Eclipse, IntelliJ, JDeveloper, SQL Developer, Ant, Maven, CVS, SVN and GIT