Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CISCO New York, NY • Around 6+ years of IT experience as a system Admini and python developer with analytical programming using Python and Django.  • Experienced with full Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, Object Oriented Programming.  • Interactive network protocol analyzer and capture utility with Wireshark.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications  • Building and Installing servers through ARM Templates for Azure Portal.  • Hands-on technical experience and seasoned Azure Infrastructure and migration to Azure.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django and HTML.  • Working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like (IDE) PyCharm, Spyder.  • Performed eyelash extension application and Multi-threading services on clients.  • Collected and cleaned GitHub developer behavior data using SQL, Python  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications.  • Hands on experience on TCP/IP packets doing packet Tracer.  • VPN solutions in Azure with the help of Network Security Groups, public and private network configurations. Work Experience Python Developer CISCO - San Jose, CA March 2019 to Present Description:  Cisco provides innovative WebEx, voice, internet, entertainment services, and leading-edge business technology for customers in nationwide. Connecting customers with reliable, high-quality products and services while centering on delighting customers. This project that provide internet, entertainment services to both wireline and cable order customers.    Responsibilities:  • Perform bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout and  • Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Experience with Python development in Windows.  • Deployment to the production and development environment using SSH and following step like copying the settings file running the bash script to run the application.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3 and Flask.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Performed eyelash extension application and Multi-threading services on clients.  • Collected and cleaned GitHub developer behavior data using SQL, Python  • Worked in conjunction with three different skill sets with three different skill managers in OOPs.  • Hands-on-experience in TCP/IP, to network protocol in Wireshark.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website for interface to perform in a high-level.    Environment: HTML, PyCharm, TCP/IP, Flask, MongoDB GitHub, Bitbucket, spark, MSQL, RASA NLU(Framework). Jr. Python Developer Smartsoft International - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to February 2019 Description:  The project is to Develops the Portals and Apps for the healthcare. Electronic Health Record (EHR) based worked for Cloud computing technology that to create a data to store and access through a remote server to been stored in cloud with using Microsoft Azure merge to cloud to store and increasing more security for the data to store in cloud. Sourcing and maintaining IT infrastructure for store, transfer, modify or print data and reports to transfer data to a Universal access. And company offering a next-generation technology to improve the expertise and accuracy of World-renowned medical facilities. The users can make selections from various dropdowns. The portals also provide information on the latest medical facilities.    Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django & view controller and templating.  • Suggested technical advisory procedures for software development program for Python.  • Using Encrypting key and Decryption Key to protect the data in a cloud  • Implemented and tested python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Expertise in Continuous test/integration/deployment and help Developing backend services for applications.  • Tuned multiple spark applications for better optimization.  • Wrote various spark transformations in Python to perform data cleansing and validation.  • Hands on experience with spark Distribution.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python,  • Performed eyelash extension application and Multi-threading services on clients.  • Implement load balancing designs based on service requests and responsible for monitoring, troubleshooting, and evaluation of network and infrastructure systems Support projects including Design, Development and Implementation.  • Experience in Database design/Stored Procedure/SQL development.  • Used GIT as Source control repositories with regular code reviews and pull/merge requests.    Environment: Python, Django, Azure cloud, spark, MySQL, Windows. Jr. Python Developer Common Cents - Fairfield, NJ January 2016 to December 2016 Description:  Common cents is a large distributor with warehousing nationwide, allowing us to always be ready to ship quickly to You. Our buying power plus state-of-the-art efficiency allows us to give you the lowest prices. Both of these benefits and a diverse spectrum of products expanding from health and beauty to pet products, from nostalgic classic candies and holiday gift items to diapers, baby wipes, an assortment of snacks and more is the reason you'll love coming back.    Responsibilities:  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Built Web application using Python, Django, HTML and template languages.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Built Web application using Python, Django, Flask, JavaScript, HTML and template languages  • Experience in Application Development and Object-Oriented Programming Analysis and design.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the main applications that were sources of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Knowledge in TCP/IP, UDP/IP, Active Directory Infrastructure, DNS, DHCP.  • Interactive network protocol analyzer and capture utility with Wireshark.  • Experience in Microsoft Azure cloud platform and merge with python  • Worked on Firewall tickets to deal with low, medium and high priority issues.  Environment: Python, Django, MYSQL, HTML, TCP/IP. Jr. Python Developer HDFC Bank - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2015 to August 2015 Description: Worked on a customer support application serves to build clients and services covering the entire customer life cycle to help with Account details, subscription details, user details, Credit score, security, content search, credit card change details, recent statements, Loans, manage calls and help site services chat with us, contact customer service, etc.    Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django & view controller and templating.  • Suggested technical advisory procedures for software development program for Python.  • Implemented and tested python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Wrote various transformations in Python to perform data cleansing and validation.  • Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Extensive experience working in Object Oriented Programming.  • Implement load balancing designs based on service requests and responsible for monitoring, troubleshooting, and evaluation of network and infrastructure systems Support projects including Design, Development and Implementation.  • & successful implementation.  • Experience in Database design/Stored Procedure/SQL development.  • Used GIT as Source control repositories with regular code reviews and pull/merge requests.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL Jr. Python Developer Sruthi Productions Pondy - IN August 2013 to December 2014 Description: Sruthi Productions is an Indian and French Pay Television channel that is owned by the Star television. Their programs consist of family dramas, comedy series, reality shows, crime-based programmes and movies. To telecast the programs through online steaming to create an account and pay monthly subscriptions to watch in high quality.    Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django & view controller and templating.  • Suggested technical advisory procedures for software development program for Python.  • Implemented and tested python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Suggested technical advisory procedures for software development program for Python.  • Using Encrypting key and Decryption Key to protect the data in a cloud  • Expertise in Continuous test/integration/deployment and help Developing backend services for applications.  • Implement load balancing designs based on service requests and responsible for monitoring, troubleshooting, and evaluation of network and infrastructure systems Support projects including Design, Development and Implementation.  • Used GIT as Source control repositories with regular code reviews and pull/merge requests.  Environment: Python, MySQL, Windows/MAC OS. Jr. Python Developer DTDC Logistics - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2013 to July 2013 Description: DTDC Express Inc. is a subsidiary of DTDC Express Limited - India's largest parcel delivery network. We are a strategic partner of DPD Group, an International Parcel Delivery Services Company. Building enduring and close ties with the customers is our priority and we pride ourselves in offering a broad range of services to our esteemed patrons. dedication have not only helped us emerge as an internationally recognized courier service provider but also have been instrumental in creating a strong value system that is palpable in our work culture and services.    Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django & view controller and templating.  • Suggested technical advisory procedures for software development program for Python.  • Expertise in Continuous test/integration/deployment and help Developing backend services for applications.  • Wrote various transformations in Python to perform data cleansing and validation.  • Knowledge in TCP/IP to network protocol in Wireshark.  • Load Balancing implementations of solutions to client applications, including HTTP, HTTPS, SSH, FTP & providing global DNS design solution & successful implementation.  • Experience in Database design/Stored Procedure/SQL development.  • Used GIT as Source control repositories with regular code reviews and pull/merge requests.  Environment: Python, networking. Education BS in computer science Vel's University 2012 Master's in computer science Monroe College - New York, NY Skills Python, Mysql, Cisco, Mongodb, Wireshark, Javascript, Git, CSS