Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Cigna Health Care Dallas, TX • Around 8 years of experience in developing and designing Web Based, Multi-tier distributed applications using latest analytical programming Python, Django, Flash, JAVA, J2EE and spring technologies.  • Experience with all aspects of technology projects including Business Requirements, Technical Architecture, Design Specification, Development and Deployment.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, Java Script, and jQuery.  • Experienced  • in Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, SciPy, python, PyTables etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell programming  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework.  • Familiar and Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX (Sun Solaris, AIX), Linux and Windows.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Highly experienced in generator function, generator expression, object-oriented programming, and package development  • Good knowledge in SOC, SOA and developing applications with Restful services  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using serverside applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Expert in using JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database  • Experienced in Automation Tools like HP Operations Orchestration & System Center Orchestrator.  • Application Stress tester, created and stress tested stand-alone, web-applications and generated graph reports.  • Used PDB, GDB and other debugging tools and deployed production hot fixes.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP Serializable JSON strings.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing(UAT)  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - Pajama's, Python.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases  • Experienced in Application Development using Python, RDBMS and Linux shell scripting and performance tuning  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Planning and Implementing, Disaster Recovery and Fault Tolerance for AWS services.  • Troubleshooting AWS Auto scaling and EC2 instances related issues.  • Good knowledge on Developing automation software for Elasticsearch Cluster deployment.  • Created views and stored procedures which organized PDF files with additional metadata that is indexed into the Elasticsearch system  • Experience migrating from Oracle SQL and Microsoft SQL to MongoDB.  • Participate in scalability testing to ensure MongoDB High Performance.  • Expertise in practicing the SDLC models, Agile methods with Scrum, Extreme Programming, Ticketing systems using JIRA and TDD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Cigna Health Care - Bloomfield, CT March 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD. Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java, C++  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  • Configuration and installation of MongoDB Servers and Ops Manager in Integration, Test and Prod Environment.  • Worked on Installation and configure MongoDB Cluster nodes on different AWS EC2 instances.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Generated SWIG interfaces to co-ordinate between C++, Java and Python. Used JNI for communication between C++ and Java.  • Implementing complete web SSO features with Identity Federation with SAML 2.0 compliance.  • Responsible for federating with clients using SAML and proprietary SSO.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Experience supporting multi-region, multi availability zone applications in AWS created placement groups to maintain cluster of instances.  • Debugging and testing of the applications & finetuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  Environment: Python, Django1.4, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Verizon - Township of Warren, NJ August 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build Spring MVC Architecture with Angular JS.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Wrote and executed various RDBMS, MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Designed and Implemented Server Build Automation & Server Decommissioning Automation  • Implemented Apache Spark data processing project to handle data from RDBMS and streaming sources.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Also, created XML with Django to be used by the Flash  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web-based applications.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and DE normalization.  • Worked within SOA based enterprise framework to build web services.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, web application and automation testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Developed indexer programs and search endpoint for enterprise applications, maintenance of Elasticsearch  cluster, and deployment of programs done through custom automated scrips.  • Documented the requirements including the available code which should be implemented using Spark, Hive, HDFS, HBase and Elasticsearch.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7 & 3.5, Django 1.6.1, Selenium, HTML-5, CSS-3, XML, MySQL, JIRA, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, jQuery, RDBMS, CSS Bootstrap, Elasticsearch, MS SQL Server-2014, T- SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Amazon Lambda, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer ZORO Tools Inc - Buffalo Grove, IL February 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities  • Developed the application using Agile methodology and Scrum method of project management.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashovers stored in the Django models.  • Design and implement Provisioning Server 5.6 upgrade to Provisioning Server 6.1.  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Architected, designed, and implemented SAML and symmetric key based Single Sign On service provider systems.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Implemented multi-site Enterprise SOA using Oracle SOA Suite and also worked in SOA architecture WebSphere Message broker for integration.  • Also Created Angular JS controllers, directives, models for different modules of the application.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins,  MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Helped maintain existing Python (Django and Flask) applications. Interfaced with infrastructure services like Amazon AWS (S3, SQS) and used tools like Sold, RabbitMQ.  • Built S3 buckets and managed policies for S3 buckets & used S3 bucket and glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Configure MongoDB to use TLS/SSL for all incoming and outgoing connections.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, rule, rule 2 for web crawling.  • Configure MONGODB Shaded cluster with Replica Set (HA) on Different AWS regions.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed code in Java which creates mapping in Elasticsearch even before data is indexed into.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation  Environment: Python, Django1.4, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Concentrix Insurance Solutions - Greenville, SC November 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Used jQuery for all client-side JavaScript manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Performed Unit/System test.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations  Environment: Python 2.6, SciPy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, jQuery, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, JASPER, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache. Jr. Software Developer SITEL India - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2010 to September 2013 Responsibilities  • As a Java Programmer, worked on creating custom mechanism by using CSS, HTML and JavaScript and used Controls and Repeaters for data sets.  • Qualified in UNIX shell scripting as part of the implementation process.  • Was part of writing SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, involved in modifications to the existing database structure?  • Expertise SVN as the version control tool for the Code to commit and fetch.  • Actively worked on developing the automatic build scripts by using ANT for application to organize and test in Servers.  • Worked using XML documents with XSLT and CSS to interpret the content into HTML also validated XML using DTD's and XSD's.  • Experience in analyzing business needs as a part of releases as a Developer in Java,  • Was responsible for designing object model diagrams and data model diagrams to meet the business necessities.  • Developed the application by using various design patterns like DAO, Singleton and Session Facade. Fashioned and updated Wiki for the ecommerce and client teams to exchange information about the projects.  • Worked using Struts validators and 1.x tiles concept for front end execution.  • Worked on the presentation layer of the application with the help of servlets and JSPs. Engrossed in writing JUnit 3 Test Cases for unit testing various modules of application.  • Was responsible to write stored procedures and add new paper types, concluding options to the database.  • Proficiency in using Eclipse Galileo IDE for application progress.  Environment: Java1.6, Struts 1.x, J2EE, HTML, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Eclipse, XML, XSLT, XSD, EJB, Ant, JUnit, Tomcat, Windows XP, UNIX, Oracle10g, CSS style sheets. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (7 years), XML (7 years), SQL (7 years), JAVA (6 years), CSS (7 years), Python Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks Django, web2py, Flask, Struts, pylons and CSS Bootstrap  Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS  Programming Languages C, C++, Python-3.5 & 2.7, Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  Python Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, Spark, jQuery, NumPy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, SciPy, python, PyTables    Version Control GIT (GitHub), SVN, CVS, Bitbucket.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  IDE's/ Development Tools PyCharm and Sublime Text.  Web Services AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3, Amazon Lambda  Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SNMP, SMTP, REST.  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA.  Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall