Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Cox Automotive * Around 6 years of Professional IT experience in Design & Development of applications using Python, Django.  * Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, and database design.  * Good experience in using system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server applications using HTML, CSS, Python, Django.  * Sound experience in working with python editors like PyCharm, PyStudio, and Spyder.  * Good Experience in using framework Django.  * Good experience in using CSS, and HTML.  * Experience with Version Control, ideally SVN and GIT.  * Have good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum).  * Good Experience in using Linux environment and Linux Commands.  * Used Python for data analytics, data wrangling and extracting data using NumPy and SciPy.  * Proficient in using Relational Databases like Oracle and My SQL.  * Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL database.  * Good Knowledge in using PyChecker package in python to check the bugs.  * Good Experience in Error and Exceptional handling and Debugging.  * Have exposure in different stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  * Good Knowledge in using test frameworks like Unittest.  * Have participated in several Data Backup, Data Recovery and Disaster handling drills.  * Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions. Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  * Solid communicator with exceptional team-building skills, dedicated, self-motivated achiever and ability to work independently and perform well within cross-functional teams.  * Active team member, quick learner and ready to learn new technologies.  * Can work comfortably with enthusiastic attitude. Work Experience Python Developer Cox Automotive - New York, NY January 2018 to Present Client Description:  Dealertrack is the leading provider of digital solutions to the automotive retail industry. Their integrated approach to products and services includes the largest lender network in North America, the most advanced dealer management system (DMS), leading-edge sales and F&I solutions, and complete registration and title solutions.    Responsibilities  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved in the development of programming user interface design and front-end (HTML) for the Web application using Django templating language to the requirements of the client.  • Used MongoDB as non relational database to load, update and delete JSON documents.  • Basic experience with Docker images and containers.  • Usage of tools like RoboMongo for migration of data between databases and environments without any kind of data loss.  • Worked on splunk logs in order to monitor the issues in all the environments.  • Hands-on experience in exposing REST based services through DataPower including various message formats including XML, JSON  • Hands on experience in using IBM DataPower to review, analyze the request/response messages within the multi protocol gateway.  • Responsible for implementing the Multi protocol gateway by writing needed XSLT files within datapower.  • Used IBM Datapower tool to write the transformations(XSLT) from JSON to XML.  • Used Oracle SQL to extract, modify the data.  • Used Pycharm for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Worked in Kanban mode of agile methodology.  • Worked with Robo3T (mongo DB) to expose to different forms respective to state.  • Involved in working with 'Agile' methodology and its various stages including sprints, scrums.  • Gathering all the required information for analyzing and developing user stories and resolving defects.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking    Environment: Python, Oracle SQL, CSS, JSON, HTML, Mongo DB, Django, IBM Datapower, XML, XSLT, Docker ZeniMax Media Inc - Santa Ana, CA August 2017 to January 2018 Client Description:  ZeniMax Media Inc. is an American video game publisher based in Rockville, Maryland. The company is known for owning id Software, Arkane Studios, MachineGames, Tango Gameworks, publisher Bethesda Softworks with its Bethesda Game Studios and ZeniMax Online Studios. Bethesda softworks LLC released over 20 different titles and various game series in last 33 years.    Responsibilities  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Designed front end using Django Templating language.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used NumPY for Numerical analysis.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Used GIT to resolve and coding the work on python and portlet.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and MySQL.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Involved in monitoring, logging and debugging the code in various environments.  • Gathered all requirement for developing and analyzing requirement of projects.  • Used software development life cycle (SDLC) and agile methodology to implement business logic.    Environment: Python 3.6, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Rest, Django, SQL, Windows. Python Developer Symantec Corporation April 2016 to August 2017 Client:  Symantec Corporation, the world's leading cyber security company, allows organizations, governments, and people to secure their most important data wherever it lives. Our Integrated Cyber Defense (ICD) Platform unifies products, services, and partners, protecting enterprises against sophisticated threats across endpoints, networks, applications, and clouds. A global community of more than 50 million people rely on Symantec's Norton and LifeLock products to help protect their digital lives at home and across their devices.    Responsibilities:  • Python and Django based web application, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle SQL and VMWare API calls.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Developing Microservices by creating REST APIs and used them to access data from different suppliers and to gather network traffic data from servers.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX , XML, Python, Django, PHP  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing performed.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for Microservices and continuous deployment.  • Used data pipelining as embedded data processing engine which runs applications APIs transform and migrate data.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Developed and maintained parsing modules, which read CSV, XML and JSON data from files and other REST services, processed the data.  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  • Worked with the team to coordinate with CI/CD pipeline management releases.    Environment: Python 3, Linux/Windows OS, Django, Oracle SQL, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Rest API, Jr Python Developer Eduex Soft Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to August 2015 Client Description: Eduex solutions is a leading enterprise solutions provider specializing in Oracle technologies, dedicated to enabling global companies transform their businesses. We are the preferred IT partner for over 70 global companies, delivering services and solutions across Mobility, Middleware, Analytics, Testing and Cloud Applications since 10 years.    Responsibilities:  • Development in Python, Django, in Linux OS/windows OS  Statistics, algorithms, data structures, relational databases, My SQL programming.  • Used OOPS concept for implementation  • Worked closely with marketing team to create respective test cases and algorithms for efficient work flow.  • Involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects  • Worked on MySQL in order to do extract, update the data using DML commands.  • Developed and executed various MySQL database queries from python using python -MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  • Wrote python scripts to generate SQL queries.  • Designed the HTML based web pages for displaying the reports.  • Worked on front end side using HTML and CSS.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery and Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications  • Used debugging tools in order to troubleshoot the application.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML and JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Involved in development of Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile).  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Extensively used Git as version control system.    Environment: Python 3, Linux /Windows OS, Django, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Education Masters in computer engineering in computer engineering Fairleigh Dickinson University - Teaneck, NJ May 2017 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Python, SQL    Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Mac OS,  Database Oracle, MYSQL  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, XML  Application Servers Apache Tomcat  Frameworks Django, CSS    Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Hybrid  Testing tools JIRA.  IDE's/ Development Tools PyCharm, and Spyder  Version Controls Git  Container Management Docker