Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - THALES AVIONICS, CA Houston, TX • 7+years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Python -twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, Pycharm, emacs.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django.  • Developed web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, MongoDB, also experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Good Knowledge of web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Used XML, SOAP, web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Experience in working with deployment tools like AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Jenkins, Ansible, Docker and Kubernetes.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python.  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, test cases, design, documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Experienced in setting up EC2 instances, security groups and Setting up databases in AWS using S3bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Configured and automated various AWS services like EC2 and S3 using Boto ( Python SDK).  • Develop AWS Cloud Formation templates (in JSON) to automate infrastructure deployments.  • Deploying application in Docker Container for custom environment and hosting in Elastic Beanstalk.  • Importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer THALES AVIONICS, CA May 2017 to Present Thales Group is a French multinational company that designs and builds electrical systems and provides services for the aerospace, defense, transportation and security markets.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a Python library for complete access over SQL.  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in Python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis, Pandas library was used for flexible reshaping and pivoting of data sets.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Installed, configured, and managed the AWS server.  • Accessed database objects using Django Database APIs.  • Worked on Python based test frameworks and test-driven development with automation tools.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Manage the configurations of multiple servers using python script in Ansible, deployed micro services, including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible Playbooks.  • Provisioned load balancer, auto-scaling group and launch configuration for microservices using Ansible.  • Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline which primarily consists of Jenkins to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven.  • Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy the code using GitHub Jenkins, Nexus and Ansible.  • Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack Monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has integrated Ansible with Run deck and Jenkins.  • Implemented Ansible to manage all existing servers and automate the build/configuration of new servers.  • Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch.  • Performed web testing automation using selenium API.  • Performed parameterization of the automated test scripts in Selenium to check how the application performs against multiple sets of data Contributed in developing Automation Framework that uses Java, Selenium WebDriver and Testing.  • Creating customized Docker container images, tagged and pushed the images to the Docker repository.  • Analyze and visualize the data using ELK.  • Experience working with Kubernetes for automating deployment, Scaling and management of containerized application.  • Integrating Kubernetes with Networking, Storage, Security, Telemetry and other services to provide a comprehensive container infrastructure.  • Managing the Docker container through the pods and performing the load balance between the pods through Kubernetes.    Environment: Python, Django, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, GIT, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, AWS, Ansible, Pandas, Eclipse, Perl, Shell Scripting, Docker, Kubernetes. Sr. Python Developer DISH TECHNOLOGIES, CO March 2015 to April 2017 Dish Technologies gives customers the ability to watch live and recorded TV programming from smartphones, tablets and computers. It constantly works to innovate and improve upon industry leading technology.    Responsibilities:  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Setup database in AWS using RDS and configuring backups for S3 bucket.  • Experience in setting up Elastic Load Balancers (ELB's) and Auto Scaling groups on Production EC2 Instances to build Fault-Tolerant and High Availability applications.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy, and PostgreSQL.  • Hands on experience in writing ETL script using python Django setting for database operations and other activities (involving extracting, transforming and loading).  • Worked on deployment on AWS EC2 instance with Postgresql RDS and S3 file storage.  • Improved understanding of Unit Testing, learned Golang and its testing framework, familiarized. And Created RPC-based service for reading large volume of data from l r4e3PostgreSQL using GO (Golang).  • Creating Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks like auto config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data including a custom Fortigate firewall config generator which included multi-threaded functionality to generate configs for multiple firewalls at once.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services such as EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, and Elastic Load Balancer.  • Used the boto3 module in Python to interface with Amazon Web Services (AWS) like DynamoDB, which is a NoSQL database service that provides fast and predictable performance with seamless scalability.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, and MySQL databases. Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Good understanding of Big Data technologies such as Hadoop, Hive.  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  • Involved in writing SQL queries implementing functions, triggers, cursors, object types, sequences, indexes etc.  • Created Data tables utilizing MySQL utilized Jinja to access data and display it in the front end.  • Utilized SQLite database for development and SQL server for production.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated with the releases.  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium Web Driver, Java, and TestNG.  • Strong knowledge of all phases of SDLC and Strong working knowledge of Software testing (Functional Testing, Regression Testing, Load Testing).  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Experience with AWS S3 services creating buckets, configuring buckets with permissions, logging, and versioning and tagging of S3 buckets.  • Used AWS lambda to run servers without managing them and to trigger to run code by S3 and SNS.  • GIT a version control system and centralized source code repository storage environment for the development of project hosted by AWS.  • Branching, Tagging, Release Activities on Version Control Tools: GIT, GitHub.    Environment: Python, AWS, EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, PyCharm, Selenium IDE, JQuery, Postgresql, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Web Services, Pandas, JSON, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Jinja, Flask, MongoDB, SQL, GIT, Cassandra. Python Developer Genfare, IL September 2013 to February 2015 Genfare is a leader in providing dedicated solution-based secure, reliable and highly flexible fare collection solutions to transit agencies of all sizes throughout North America.    Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations, data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands.  • Created a Python /Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Built client pages using HTML, JSP, XML to interact with users, and the business logic is implemented using Servlets and Java Beans.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Publish and Consume Contract First SOAP web services using spring & Restful Web services using Jersey.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Worked on JMS components for asynchronous messaging.  • Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading.  • Implemented code MVC2 framework using JSP's JavaBeans & Servlets.  • Utilized Python libraries NumPy, Twisted and matplotlib.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on various environment Python, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, git, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts.  • Installed Workstation, Bootstrapped Nodes, Wrote Recipes and Cookbooks and uploaded them to Chef-server, Managed On-site OS/Applications/Services/ Packages using Chef as well as AWS for EC2/S3&ELB with Chef Cookbooks.  • Creating CloudFormation templates in JSON format and deploy stack of AWS resources like EC2 instances, get code from S3 and deploy it, creation of security group and so on, as defined in the template.  • Developing and testing cookbooks, keeping the chef repository synchronized with the version control system.  • Implemented Chef Recipes for Deployment on build on internal Data Centre Servers. Also, re-used and modified same Chef Recipes to create a Deployment directly into Amazon EC2 instances.  • Configuring organizational policy including defining the roles and environments and ensuring that the critical data is stored in the data bags.  • Used Python Boto3 to write scripts to automate launch, starting and stopping of EC2 instances and taking snapshots of the servers.  • Also used python scripts for security purposes, AWS IAM, AWS lambda functions and deploying the applications through elastic beanstalk.  • Used GO scripts for uploading a file to S3 and deploying them and creating GO serverless application and deploying it to AWS lambda.  • Used Apache Tomcat web server to handle HTTP request and deploy Java Servlets and JSP's.    Environment: AWS, Chef, GIT, Jenkins, REST, JSON, JSP, Servlets, Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript Jquery, JavaScript, Shell Scripts. Python Developer Cigna, NY June 2012 to August 2013 Cigna is an American world-wide health services organization and a global health insurance service company that offers health, dental, supplemental insurance and Medicare plans to individuals, families and businesses.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development process from product inception to scaling in production.  • Worked in collaboration with project managers and higher management in cross-functional teams within Sales and Account Management, for business requirements and develop efficient, elegant approaches to their implementation.  • Leveraged Python graphic APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  • Wrote REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework.  • Also involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Created checkpoints and configuration files in SSIS packages.  • Extensively used merge command as alternative to small SSIS packages in dimension and fact load.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many bug fixes for applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors).  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Generated Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Extensive use of version controlling systems CVS.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.2, MySQL, SSIS, CVS, Unit Test, JIRA Software developer Wells Fargo - Columbus, OH June 2010 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in the development of complete life cycle, from the requirements gathering to the implementation phase.  • Collaborated with business analyst to design solutions and prepared corresponding technical documents.  • Involved in development of a web-based information system using C, ASP.NET, Web Forms and ADO.NET.  • Implemented UI elements using HTML CSS and JavaScript. Used jQuery to develop AJAX functionalities.  • Created database tables and implemented stored procedures database triggers and views on SQL Server 2014.  • Design and Development of class diagrams, sequence diagrams and object diagrams using UML methodology.  • Designed user interface using Microsoft Visual Studio.    Environment: Python, Django, RESTful, Linux, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MySQL, Shell, JIRA, CVS. Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communications New York University Skills DJANGO (8 years), PYTHON (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), jQuery (7 years), SQL (6 years), C, AWS Additional Information Operating Systems Linux (Red Hat 4.x,5.x, 6.x), Ubuntu, UNIX, WINDOWS NT/2000/2003/XP/VISTA/7.  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN, GIT  Languages/Scripting Python, AJAX, C, Java, XML, Shell, Perl, GO, YAML, JavaScript.  Databases Mongo DB, Dynamo DB, My SQL, MS Access, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2  Application Servers Tomcat, Weblogic, JBoss, WebSphere  Tools Maven, Jenkins, Chef, Ansible, SonarQube and ELK , JMeter  Testing Tools Selenium IDE,Selenium Webdriver, TestNG, Cucumber, Junit5  AWS Services AWS EC2, VPC, RDS, APIs, CloudWatch, CloudFormation, S3, Autoscaling, Lambda.  Micro Services Docker, Docker Swarm, Kubernetes, AWS ECS.  Frameworks Django, Flask, CherryPy, JQuery, Google App Engine.