Salesforce Developer/Admin Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin Salesforce Developer/Admin - Sysco Foods Houston, TX Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Admin Sysco Foods - Houston, TX April 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Gathering the business requirements from business team and users. Writing the functional specification document based on the business requirement document.  ? Involved in daily support calls and enhancement planning calls.  ? Writing Apex triggers, apex classes, developing Visual force pages, batch classes, scheduled apex, and test classes.  ? Highly used data loader and Informatica on demand tool to integrate Salesforce with other legacy systems.  ? Migrating the data into the application from other merged companies and facilitating the application.  ? Involved in deployment of the components from staging environment to production.  ? Constant involvement in exploring apex change apps and using the apps wherever necessary.  ? Used apps like Apttus, Exact target, Market, Dupe Catcher, Cloud Converter, Chatter un-follow rules, Field Trip, Conga Composer, AKARD, DocuSign etc.  ? Developed Lightning apps using Lightning Components and made them compatible with salesforce1 mobile app.  ? Created many Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the mail merge for different standard and custom objects in lightning experience.  ? Involved in customizing the Salesforce functionalities like workflows, approval process, setting up roles, creating profiles, security controls, data management.  ? Designed and documented the application enhancements post go live.  ? Implemented single sign on for the organization.  ? Worked on Apttus CPQ SteelBrick product setup, pricing setup and integration with Salesforce objects to bring existing custom functionality in parity. I also worked on DocuSign for Quote approvals.  ? Performed CPQ related configuration for product setup, approval matrices, approval rules, process builders and flows.  ? Worked on Lightning Experience has evaluated complete Readiness report provided by Salesforce and redid the work in Lightning sandbox and made sure everything is working.  ? Formatting and migrating user data into LE, Implemented Salesforce Lightning Components within the organization.  ? Used Salesforce Lightning Design Systems (SLDS) components in the Lightning Application.  ? Integrated Apptus CPQ, SteelBrick and CLM applications and automating processes on Salesforce platform.  ? Wrote SOQL, SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  ? Developed Lightning components and Lightning apps to provide better and more interactive interfaces to end users, which help in sales enhancements.  ? Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  ? Keeping track of all Salesforce releases throughout the year and implementing latest enhancements immediately in the application.  ? Raising cases with Salesforce support team in solving the product bugs.  ? Solely implemented Ideas and Case Management and Lead management for the organization using web to lead, web to case, e-mail to case, lead and case assignment rules etc.,  ? Developed complex visual force pages using standard, custom controllers and components.  ? Responsible for refreshing the Full copy and training sandbox environments regularly.  Environment: SaleForce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex (Classes, Controllers & Triggers), Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Data Loader, Sandbox, APTTUS CPQ HTML, Java Script, Eclipse IDE Plug-in Salesforce Developer Salesforce Developer/Admin JM Family Group - Deerfield Beach, FL February 2017 to March 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of Business and technical requirements and designed the solution.  ? Developed Apex Classes for Visualforce pages.  ? Developed Triggers required for the application.  ? Have written Batch Apex for the asynchronous data updates.  ? Created E-Mail Templates for the email alerts created.  ? Used analytic snapshots for bi-weekly reports.  ? Worked on Communities, Knowledge management and extensively on CTI integration.  ? Managed Communities, Global headers, Security and Authentication, Community builder with templates.  ? Used SOQL & SOSL considering the Governor Limits for data manipulation using the apex code.  ? Created case escalation rules to escalate cases automatically if they are not resolved within a certain period, also worked on app-exchange tools for tracking orders.  ? Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features, Field Service Lightning.  ? Migrate data from legacy systems to Salesforce using Apex Data Loader and migrating salesforce multiple instances into one.  ? Involved in Steel Brick CPQ (Configure, Price& Quote) design mapping to the Salesforce custom objects including Apttus Advanced Workflow Approvals.  ? Worked on Steel brick CPQ Workflow approvals, and created constraint rules and validation rules for the implementation of pricing and business rules on the Cart page  ? Developed new Lightning System Design which helps to quickly and easily create modern enterprise apps using Lightning App Builder and Lightning Components Performed.  ? Developed Apex Triggers, Apex Classes and Test Methods.  ? Customized standard Salesforce objects like Accounts, Contacts, case management and solutions.  ? Developed Test classes for all the Apex classes and Triggers with minimum 95% code coverage for triggers and classes  ? Implemented Salesforce.com web services client using Salesforce web services API, Java, XML and partner WSDL.  ? Exported data from legacy system and imported into SFDC through Apex data loader for data migration.  Environment: Force.com IDE, Custom objects, Triggers, Batch Jobs, Validation Rules, Formula Fields, Data Loader, Reports and Dashboards, SQL Server 2008, APTTUS CPQ, Workflow & Approvals, Apex Classes, Conga App Extremes and Visualforce Pages, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap Salesforce Developer/Admin AT&T - Plano, TX February 2016 to January 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Designed the security and sharing model for the application by creating roles, profiles, sharing rules, public groups, apex managed sharing etc.  ? Developed Apex triggers, apex classes, batch apex and schedule apex to automate the business processes.  ? Developed Visualforce pages from scratch to customize the user interface using various controllers.  ? Created some Salesforce.com communities.  ? Used JavaScript/J-query to perform client-side validations on Visual Force pages and to improve the performance of the User interface.  ? Built test suites using node and uses JavaScript to automate regression testing.  ? Leverage future methods, bulkily techniques to develop apex code within governor limits.  ? Develop and maintain test classes primarily to validate the code and to improve the code coverage for the application.  ? Created multiple Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters that makes the Lightning component look and feel better.  ? Developed salesforce1 Lightning apps, components, controllers, handlers and events in the existing organization.  ? Creation of custom Visualforce pages, apex triggers and apex classes, REST API Web services.  ? Performed transformations to modify the data generated in Salesforce to match analytics requirements.  ? Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  ? Leverage Salesforce analytics to cater various reporting needs of multiple business lines.  ? Used the sandbox and Java Ant for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  ? Work on ETL tools and Webservices API to integrate Salesforce with other applications within the organization.  ? Developed custom Apex REST services for internal applications to consume data from Salesforce.  ? Deploy changes between different environments and work on sandbox refresh process.  ? Develop proof of concepts for business analysts, and work with them closely until the requirement is completed.  Environment: Eclipse IDE, Controllers, CSS, Visual Force Pages, Data Loader, Workflows, Triggers, Web Services API, SAP, Salesforce, Force.com Explorer, Lightning, Marketing cloud Admin, Marketing cloud Integration, Agile Development Methodology Software Developer Noble Soft Solutions - IN November 2013 to July 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved as Developer throughout the life cycle of the projects.  ? Implemented 2 custom applications on Force.com Platform.  ? Implemented Sales and Service Cloud.  ? Actively participated in Technical team discussions between Business teams, Analysts, developers and QA Team.  ? Designed and deployed the Custom objects, Entity-Relationship data model, Formulas, Validation rules on the objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Roles, Profiles, Public Groups, Permission Sets, Custom Settings and Labels to suit to the needs of the application.  ? Developed inbound email services for processing inbound emails  ? Designed and developed Batch Classes to handle bulk logic and invoked the batch Class from Trigger Context asynchronously.  ? Developed Scheduler Classes for nightly batch processes.  ? Implemented the Standard Set Controller and its attributes to paginate the records in Visual Force Pages.  ? Designed Complex logic involving Apex Controllers (Standard and Custom Controllers).  ? Developed Triggers for standard objects.  ? Implemented Web services using SOAP and REST API for integrations with internal systems as well with external third-party vendors.  ? Developed Asynchronous Callouts using the Future Annotation and executed the future methods from a Trigger.  ? Managed Different SFDC Sandbox environments for Dev/Test/UAT and Training.  ? Managed Deployment management/Release Management.  ? Assigned and worked with team members to resolve any issues they have in completing the tasks and providing support.  ? Involved in working with Admins in business office to upgrade handoffs in production.  ? Train and support end-users and facilitate end user adoption.  ? Prompt identification, escalation and resolution of issues.  ? Supported Post Go-live for resolving critical issues.  Environment: Salesforce CRM, Web Services and BW/BO Software Developer LAD Solutions June 2011 to November 2013 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Gather requirements analysis and understand the application behavior to understand the design documents provided by designers and develop the requirements as per the design.  ? Involved in MEC and YEC process for IDM application  ? Involved in GT calculation and Entity calculation  ? Check the server health and observe their condition frequently  ? Involved in Implementation of Maven project for IDM  ? Implemented the Jenkins to IDM application for continuous build and Deploy  ? Working Experience with GIT, Maven and Tomcat Server  ? Wrote procedure, views and cursors in SQL server  ? Worked on Spring MVC and implemented controller, implementation classes for IDM application  ? Involved and implemented Soap web services for employee integration feed.  Environment: Linux, Core Java, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, SQL, Server, Tomcat7, Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Linux Education Master's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Governor's State University - Chicago, IL 2016 Bachelor's Degree in Electronics & Communications Engineering in Electronics & Communications Engineering JNT University 2011 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, jquery, Jsp, Struts, Ajax, Css, Web services, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Apex, Force.com, Ant, Maven, Rest web services, Soap