ServiceNow Developer ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span> ServiceNow Developer • IT professional with a total of 7+ years of professional IT and 3 years of ServiceNow Development/Administration experience.  • Specialized in CMDB, Discovery, and Software Asset Management.  • Developed and administered different aspects of the ServiceNow tool used in ITIL Management.  • Experience administering and developing various OOTB and custom aspects of ServiceNow.  • Involved in developing and implementing Incident, Problem, Change, CMDB, Discovery, Service Catalog, Asset Management, Software Asset Management, and Service Mapping.  • Client-side & Server-side scripting: Business Rules, Script Actions, Script Includes, AJAX, UI Policies, UI Actions, Client Scripts.  • Knowledge of client and server APIs i.e., GlideForm, GlideAggregate, GlideRecord, etc.  • Working knowledge of Web Services/SOAP/REST integrations.  • Working knowledge of (MySQL, Oracle DB, SQL Server)  • Working knowledge of (JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, HTML, CSS).  • Configuring LDAP for User Imports and SSO.  • Developed SLAs and reported on task completion.  • Worked with JIRA for tracking project task completion.  • Working experience with Agile/Scrum framework.  • Fundamental knowledge of networking including TCP/IP ports and firewalls, network protocols, IP networks, subnetting and network devices. Work Experience ServiceNow Developer Radiator - Dallas, TX September 2017 to August 2019 • Involved in developing and implementing Incident, Problem, Change, CMDB, Discovery, Service Catalog, Asset Management, Software Asset Management, and Service Mapping.  • Transformed functional requirements into technical designs that represented actionable development tasks.  • Participated in daily Agile scrum meetings with managers.  • Involved in migration between various ServiceNow instances using Update Sets.  • Designed and developed solutions within the ServiceNow environment to include new or modifications to applications, forms, workflows, policies, actions, access control, interfaces and any other customization required to support client processes.  • Experience integration of third parties using SOAP and REST based web services.  • Began work at the end of our company's Phase 1. This involved configuring the ITSM modules (Incident, Problem, Change).  ? Configured and customized the Incident form.  ? Configured Incident classifications, priority combinations (critical, high, low, etc.), and change types (OOTB).  ? Created Business Rules to auto-generate incidents.  ? Created record producers.  ? Some experience with Problem and Change Management.  ? Began implementation of problem/change.  ? Basic set up of SLAs related to problem/change.  • Phase 2 was primarily setting up and running Discovery, setting up MID servers and monitoring for connectivity/performance. Populated CMDB. Worked on Service Mapping.  ? Deployed MID Servers for all 4 instances (Dev, QA, UAT, PROD).  ? Set up meetings with Network Admins to get Discovery credentials and IP ranges to be scanned.  ? Ran connection tests to see what type of CIs were captured for IP ranges.  ? Started scheduled runs every other night on weekdays and twice on weekends.  ? Populated our CMDB; troubleshot issues with Discovery logs and re-ran.  ? Worked with clients to properly categorize assets - manual adjusting was needed.  ? Manually imported Business Services and Business Applications.  ? Worked closely with BAs and clients to normalize everything in the CMDB.  ? Created new CI classes using CI Class Manager.  ? Verified which CIs were captured and verified their relationships.  ? Checked loop-backs and duplicates.  ? Basic knowledge of de-duplication.  • Phase 3 was installing, configuring, and managing the Software Asset Management plugin.  ? Heavily involved in the SAM implementation and maintenance process.  ? Experience with every aspect of the Software Asset Management process, from implementation all the way to reclamation.  ? Worked on SAM during the audit process - successfully passed audit despite beginning the process as uncompliant.  ? Activated SAM-related plugins (Cost Management, Procurement).  ? Knowledge of the various publisher packs activated by SAM (Microsoft, Oracle, IBM, VMWare, Citrix).  ? Knowledge of subscription-based software and publisher packs (Office 365, Adobe Cloud).  ? Knowledge of SCCM integration and usage data into ServiceNow's CMDB.  ? Ran reconciliation of baseline pre-loaded data for a starting point after SAM implementation.  ? Manually imported software entitlements.  ? Fixed errors in entitlement imports.  ? Used transform maps for imported software information.  ? Knowledge of software discovery and normalization using Central Software Library, ServiceNow Content Service, Content Library Curation, and Publisher Part Number Library.  ? Knowledge of software discovery maps, discovery patterns, discovery models, and software models.  ? Knowledge of the entire normalization, reconciliation, remediation and reclamation process.  ? Integrated Procurement with SAM.  ? Worked with various KPIs related to SAM.  ? Configured CI-Asset and Asset-CI relationships via field mapping.  ? Used the Asset/CI condition builder to synchronize relationships.  ? Created various asset classes for consumables and long-term depreciable assets.  ? Created asset categories and asset models.  • Worked on Service Mapping.  ? Focused on mapping our most important and valuable applications.  ? Worked with business analysts to identify key applications, activities, and possible connections.  ? Used Service Mapping mostly for Incident and Change Management.  ? Basic understanding of Dependency Views. ServiceNow Administrator/ Developer 7 for AT&T - Plano, TX October 2016 to July 2017 • Customized forms and tables for ITSM modules. Provided basic support for Incident, Problem, Change.  • Set up Configuration Management, defined CI classes and their relationships.  • Working experience on Discovery, set up MID servers, and checked for connectivity.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web/GUI components using JavaScript, CSS, HTML5.  • Worked on UI Macros to create pages as templates based on given requirements.  • Configured multiple forms for the Asset module using CMDB and Service Mapping.  • Resolved typical user access and roles issues by checking active directory and user table.  • Pulled reports and scheduled reports as per the client requirement.  • Created database views to pull the reports on variables which are being used by catalog items.  • Wrote catalog client scripts and UI policies to make client-side changes.  • Created UI pages to use them in catalog items; implemented using UI scripts.  • Created Knowledge articles to document the steps in creating the catalog items.  • Worked on different kinds of variables and variable sets.  • Worked on order guides to arrange them in sequential order to make the user comfortable while raising a request.  • Re-designed workflows using workflow editor; reconciled complicated workflows to a simpler form.  • Wrote script includes invoking them in reference qualifiers or variable scripting.  • Implemented data security using Access Control Lists (ACL) and Data Policies. Software Developer Evantage Inc - Addison, TX October 2012 to October 2016 • Worked on building software for Evantage Inc.  • Provided on-call support for highly critical issues outside office hours.  • Worked on bug fixing of Service Manager and Asset Manager.  • Participated in post-incident Problem management processes to identify the root causes of issues, and then develop plans to remediate issues.  • Troubleshoot issues that arise during a project  • Worked in agile environment to build software apps and configurations for Evantage.  • Actively worked on planning, implementation, coding and testing of the product website.  • Communicated with onsite business system analyst to better understand the requirements.  • Assisted with the business case, planning and monitoring. Teacher/Faculty ECY Academy October 2011 to October 2012 • Taught and instructed in an afterschool academy in South Korea.  • Taught students as well as employees at the local Nuclear Powerplant.  • Presented lectures and workshops.  • Recruited new students and faculty.  • Developed lesson plans and organized field trips. Education MS Information Technology in Information Technology University of Texas - Dallas, TX May 2015 BS in Economics Texas Christian University May 2011