Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Barclays Wilmington, DE • About 6 years of experience in IT industry and Expertise in Development of web applications and enterprise applications using Java, J2EE technologies.  • Experience using Java 8 features such as lambdas and streams.  • Experience using frameworks like Spring, Hibernate and Struts.  • Experience on J2EE technologies like JDBC.  • Experience on REST with Java (JAX-RS) using Jersey.  • Experience on Message Oriented Middleware (MOM) like JMS, IBM MQ.  • Experience on various server like JBoss, Weblogic, Tomcat.  • Proficient in RDBMS systems like Oracle, SQL Server and DB2.  • Experience with tools like JIRA, JUnit, Maven, ANT, CVS, Sonar Scan, Vera code Scan.  • Hands-on Experience in designing web pages using HTML, Java Script, CSS and Proficient in Client Server Programming.  • Proficient in Java performance tuning & profiling.  • Solid understanding of functional and object-oriented programming concepts and latest design patterns and microservice architecture.  • Experience on Cloud Based development and deployment.  • Employed agile methodologies, especially iterative developments and Scrum, to ensure rapid iterative software development.  • Excellent team player, strong team orientation and enthusiastic to learn.  • Ability to work in a fast-paced, high-intensity work environment and adapt to new technologies.    Technical Skills  Programming Java, J2EE, JavaScript, HTML, XML, JDBC  Development Framework Spring, Struts, Hibernate, RxJava, Log4j, Quartz Job, JMS  Testing Frameworks jUnit, TestNG, JIRA, Selenium, Mockito, jMeter, jMockit  Web Technologies JSP/Servlets, MS FrontPage, JQuery, RESTful Web service, HTTPS, JSON  Java Profiling Tools HP LoadRunner, VisualVM, JConsole  Concepts OOA/OOD, Design Patterns, Unit and System Testing  Design MVC, Builder Patterns, Microservices  Database/Connectivity Oracle, MS SQL Server, DB2, PostgreSQL  Development Tools/Server Eclipse, JBoss, WebLogic, Tomcat, UNIX  Version Control/Tools Git, Docker, Bit Bucket, CVS, Clear Case Work Experience Java Developer Barclays - Wilmington, DE November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked in the credit side of Business to develop and support production and non-production microservice based java applications  • Provided root cause analysis and developed automated deployment scripts in cloud-based domain-driven applications for cards  • Part of team working in a project to migrate the API'S to new vendor data center  • Maintained and migrated core legacy applications to APAAS  • Development of technical specifications, plans and make regular update to confluence for on-boarding API'S for cards  • Moved the monitoring tools for AMQ from Wily to Appd  • Identify the root cause analysis promptly and provide the immediate patches for non-cloud applications (chef cookbooks)  • Ability to grasp concepts and move from one change task to another, one architecture to another without loss of efficiency  • Independently build and identify packages for spring-based applications    Technical: Java 8, spring, spring security, spring boot (eureka, Ribbon, Zuul, Zipkin), chef, go CD, kubernetes, openshift, vault controller, Jenkins, activemq, Kafka, AMQ web console, shell/bash script, oracle, rundeck, cacti, appdynamics, wily, ELK  Architecture: microservices, domain-driven, CQRS, service-oriented architecture (SOA) Software Engineer Open Learning Exchange - Cambridge, MA February 2018 to October 2018 Project: Planet Learning System  Planet is a cloud-based learning system for managing content-based learning resources and aggregating user-metrics. It is designed to be available for everyone since its portable, affordable, scalable and sustainable. Any device that can open a browser can use it. The low-cost mobile servers has been employed to have a complete multi-media library and the learning system that periodically connects with the Internet.    Responsibilities:  • Enhance the backend components in Java to support additional learning resource contents.  • Designed UI/Frontend components in Angular JS and created schema for storing the log results.  • Designed and deployed Lifecycle Process for REST Web Services.  • Worked on design, development, maintenance and enhancement of backend components.  • Preparation of Unit test plan and adequacy of Unit testing through Mockito.  • Writing TAD, UTP and SIT documents.  • Writing functional spec for the new development/enhancement.  • Dividing and tracking task progress among the team members.    Technical: Java, J2EE, Spring, Struts, JBoss, Tomcat, DB2, Java multithreading, RESTful Web Service, Log4j, XSD, JMS, Java Script, HTML, CSS, IBM MQ, IBM Data Studio, Eclipse IDE, CVS, Clear Case, JQuery. Software Engineer Advanced Communication Networks Lab - Lowell, MA May 2016 to December 2017 Project: OSCARS 1.1  Short for "On-demand Secure Circuits and Advance Reservation System," OSCARS is a freely available open-source product initially developed by ESnet. OSCARS is an advanced software system for booking time and resources on high-speed science networks, which are used by large teams of researchers to share vast amounts of data. OSCARS serves as the central controller in ESnet. Recently, it has been entirely reworked in collaboration with Advanced Communication Networks Laboratory (ACNL) to support a vastly more flexible framework that can dynamically select enhanced services based on connection request needs.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with the team of Software Engineers to develop a Java-based network controller OSCARS (On-Demand Secure Circuits and Advanced Resevation System) for new service enhancements.  • Added more PCE (Path Computation Element) components than the previous version to find the efficient solution path(s) in a network.  • Implemented an automated traffic generator in Java to evaluate the performance of PCE components in OSCARS v1.0 prototype.  • Employed Java based configuration with spring for Dependency injection to wire the application bean and dependent objects.  • Upgraded the existing components to Java 8.  • Developed Java multithreading pooling process to process the workflow execution.  • Conducted researches to analyze the spatial and temporal performance of backend routing components for traffic intensive services.  • Collaborated with juniors developers to develop a front-end user interface(UI) to represent the reserved shortest path(s) in the client side.  • Handled Code versioning and Build process in Git.  • Implemented various design patterns like, Factory, Singleton, DAO pattern, etc.  • Writing and calling REST Web services using Spring MVC.  • Tested developed components using J-Unit tests and Spring Integrated Test framework.  • Involved in client interaction with daily calls, requirements gathering and clarification tracking.  • Involved in Java profiling and application tuning activities.  • Developed the project using Agile methodology like Scrum and Iteration Model.  • Writing DB2 queries.  • Writing Hibernate persistence classes and DAO's.  • Providing technical solution to the team.    Technical Skills: Java 8, Spring, Spring boot, Hibernate, Git, Maven, REST API, Linux shell scripting  Oracle, Mainframe, Unix, ARIS (Architecture of Integrated Information Systems), Agile methodologies, Cloud Services, Sonar, HP Load Runner. Senior Software Engineer Kaveri Mechcon - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2014 to May 2016 Project: Employee Tracker  The tool is internal to Kaveri Mechcon to keep track of the contractors and employers activities. This Java application has a workflow to monitor the number of activity components such as location and health tracking, and drilling down tools to track the productive and unproductive contractors. Bidding components and so on. I have been a part of software engineers working to build and update the existing business libraries and design of core components of this tool.    Responsibilities  • Writing back-end Java/J2EE code using Eclipse editor.  • Developed modern service driven solutions using microservices and reactive services approach and responsible for realigning web API service architecture.  • Java Multithreading implementation.  • Writing and calling REST Web services.  • Writing DB2 queries.  • Writing Hibernate persistence classes and DAO's.  • Providing technical solution to the team.  • Handled Code versioning and Build process using CVS.  • Performing sonar scan to maintain the Java coding standard.  • Learned Security, Swap, Options, Futures concepts to provide a pricing mechanism.  • Communicating with the business to understand and clarify the requirements.    Technical Skills: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Tomcat, DB2, RESTful Web Service, HTML, CSS, Angular JS (Java Script), XML/JSON, Log4j, IBM MQ, Eclipse IDE, CVS, JQuery, Sonar. Software Developer - Java HCL - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2013 to April 2014 Project: Dynamic Automated Traffic Generator  To test the realistic input load to a centralized authentication server to determine the realistic performance evaluation, an automated real-time traffic generator has been built. This tool enables network designers to make assumptions about the networks being designed based on experience and enable prediction of performance for future requirements. This is also available to their multiple clients.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible to design a framework in Java to generate network traffic to a centralised cloud-based server.  • Worked on different components of traffic parameters, designing the module, developing code, performing code reviews and assigning tasks to other developers.  • Designed tool based on Java SSH Library and Unix scripts.  • Designed an automated test framework based on Selenium to perform automated testing.  • Provided an interface to allow other Engineers to write their own control application on top of this framework.  • Documented the software architecture and instructions to register the control applications with the spring container.    Technical skills: Java, Linux shell scripting, Apache & Commons Utils, JMS, Servlets, Hibernate, GWT, Quartz Job Scheduler, Nagios, Apache Tomcat, UNIX, IBM Rational Clear Case, XML, Oracle 9i, Eclipse, SQL Developer, RESTful Web Service. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication in Electronics and Communication Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu