Integration Engineer Integration Engineer Integration Engineer - Hawk Incentives Frisco, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Integration Engineer Hawk Incentives - Lewisville, TX July 2018 to Present • Provide technical support to new and existing clients while system integration.   • Performed manual testing on currently working application.  • Updated application documentations. Software Developer Regal Medical Group - Northridge, CA June 2017 to August 2017 • Used of HTML, ASP, VB and SQL Server to create and maintain company health plan and to build letter templates in the Access Express system    • Performed as a backup resource for the company's intranet and internet applications.    • Development and provision of analysis to support research and development of IS initiatives.    • Development of supporting documentation including training material with the support of other IS staff.    Performance as a backup resource for the company's intranet and internet applications.  Performance as a backup resource for the company's intranet and internet applications. Web Developer (Internship) Western Kentucky University - Bowling Green, KY June 2016 to August 2016 Completed detailed programing and development tasks for front-end as well as challenging back-end server code.    • Developed by utilizing standard HTML/CSS/React/PHP practices.    • Cooperated with web designers to match visual design intent.    • Applied quality assurance tests to discover errors to optimize usability. Browser Extension Developer SearchManipulator - San Francisco, CA May 2015 to May 2016 • Built a browser extension for Chrome and Opera browsers.  • Developed by utilizing HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Browser API's.  • Initiated interactions between chrome browser APIs with software.    • Applied manual testing on latest software build.  • Maintained each version of build on chrome web store. Web Application Developer MaalikSoft IT & Telecom Solutions - Islamabad, PK February 2014 to April 2015 • Responsible for writing server-side web application logic utilizing PHP (XAMPP), MySQL and YII Framework.  • Supported the front-end developers by integrating their work with the application  • Tested new features thoroughly to ensure they performed the correct task in all cases.  • Created and maintained software documentation.  • Contacted clients to obtain more information and discuss design options.  • Installed software on clients side. Senior Software Engineer Optini LLC - Provo, UT January 2012 to January 2014 • Built a browser add-on /Extension on Chrome, Firefox, Safari and Opera.  • Built websites, and desktop application using web standards.  • Initiated interactions between browsers APIs with software.  • Developed by utilizing HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, C#, SQLite and Rails Framework.  • Applied manual testing on latest software build.  • Maintained each versions of build using SVN Tortoise.  • I was promoted to Senior Software Engineer.  • Managed multiple people from clients to colleagues, assigned task to them, and worked with them individually.  • Assessed software functionality i.e. quality testing of softwares.    Projects    Flimby  • A single click browser extension app, which includes features like micro-blogging, group texting, social bookmarking and screen sharing on all platforms.  • Built using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ruby on Rails with browser APIs.    GitHub: https://github.com/khurram88/Flimby    Covu  • Co-browsing and URL sharing app, which allows the users to share a web browsing session with the groups they are connected to.  • Built using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ruby on Rails with browser APIs.    GitHub: https://github.com/khurram88/Covu    Promote Yourself  • SEO based software which helps the users in signing up for the highest ranking websites in less number of clicks.  • Built using HTML, CSS and JavaScript, JQuery and Browsers APIs    GitHub: https://github.com/khurram88/Promote-Yourself-Set1    TimeLoggr  • A time recording app which helps an employee in managing the total time spent on a ticket.  • Built using HTML, CSS and JavaScript, JQuery, Assembla APIs and Browsers APIs    GitHub: https://github.com/khurram88/TimeLoggr    International Student Office WKU Website  • Redesigned and develop the international student office WKU website using OU Campus.  • Developed by using standard HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery practices. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Western Kentucky University May 2017 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Comsats Institute of Information Technology August 2011 Skills TESTING (3 years), CSS (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), jQuery (2 years), C# (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/khurram-waris https://github.com/khurram88 Additional Information Technical Expertise    Node.js, Express, HTML5, CSS, CSS Pre-Processors (SASS), React, Vanilla JavaScript, JQuery, C++, PHP, ASP, VB, MySQL, SqLite, SQL Server, AngularJS, Google Analytics, YII Framework, CMS, MVC, JAVA, C#, XML, Apache Web Server, Version Control System (Git, SVN), Debugging, Software Testing, RESTFul API's, JSON, Agile development and SDLC.