Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - C# ASP.NET MVC WCF Bristol, CT • Demonstrated expertise with over 6 years of experience in application development and implementations for Healthcare, insurance domain.  • Worked as a System Analyst, Software Developer and Senior Software Developer on Object oriented (OOPS) design and development, database programming, web programming and GUI development using C#, Dot NET / ASP.NET, MVC, HTML, SQL Server 2005/2008, Visual Source Safe.  • Experience in developing Web services, Windows services using C#, ASP.NET, WCF.  • Well-versed with all the phases of SDLC.  • Well experienced in functional and technical systems analysis & design, systems architectural design, presentation, process interfaces design, process data flow design, and system impact analysis and design documentation and presentation.  • Comfortable working independently as well as in a team environment  • Strong experience in process oriented working environment.  • Experience in Development Methodologies.  • Good exposure to Microsoft Visio & Design Patterns  • Strong organizational & team management skills.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: Dot Net 4.0/2.0/1.1, C#, ASP.NET, MVC, ADO.NET, T- SQL, PL/SQL    Internet Development: ASP.NET, MVC, IIS6, IIS 7, XML, HTML, Java Script, JQuery, CSS    Database: SQL-Server 2005/2008.    Services: Windows Services, Web Services, WCF.    Design/CASE Tools: Microsoft Visio    Operating Systems: Win 2003/XP/2000/NT, MS DOS    Miscellaneous: MS VSS, SVN, True Change, Telerik Rad Control (2007/2010), Deaja Viewer, HP-ALM, NAnt build Script , MySQL, Toad, H2H Service, PL/SQL,Http Watch,Fiedler,Reflection, Microsoft Team Foundation Server Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Mphasis Corporation February 2014 to Present Role: Sr. Software Developer  Responsibilities: • BRD discussion Involvement. • Involved in task planning, requirement analysis, design and development. • Agile Methodology • Task planning, requirement analysis • Web Service creation using .NET 4.0 with WCF and Entity Framework • Front End Development using .NET 4.0 with MVC, JQuery, Java Script • Coding of SQL Stored Procedures, functions, Tables using SQL server 2008 • Test Case Preparation & Documentation • Support for live deployment & post deployment issues • Project Documentation  Duration: Feb 2014 - Current  Software: C#, MVC, WCF, Entity Framework, MS SQL SERVER 2008, Java Script, JQuery, JSON, Ajax, CSS, Microsoft Team Foundation Server    02 Project Name Third Party Enroller Application (TPE)  Domain Client Insurance American International Group, Farmington, CT    Description of the project:  AIG designed and developed application to support Third Party Enrollers (TPEs) to offer enrollment functionality in their own environment with reduced effort on their end. AIG achieved this through an interactive web service that would be exposed externally for TPEs to consume. Web service provided basic data capture rules to the TPEs while retaining product specific rules and validations internally. AIG Established a common standard XML format for communication across multiple TPEs.    Along with creation of interactive web service AIG developed Administration website which enables a business user's view and define the final enrollment screens and controls that a TPE will be publishing via Web Service call. Harness tool for testing the TPE web service output was also created as part of the project scope Sr. Software Developer Mphasis Corporation - Farmington, CT April 2013 to February 2014 Role: Sr. Software Developer  Responsibilities: • BRD discussion Involvement. • Involved in task planning, requirement analysis, design and development. • Task planning, requirement analysis • Web Service creation using .NET 4.0 with WCF and Entity Framework • Front End Development using .NET 4.0 with MVC, JQuery, Java Script • Coding of SQL Stored Procedures, functions, Tables using SQL server 2008 • Test Case Preparation & Documentation • Support for live deployment & post deployment issues • Project Documentation  Duration: Apr 2013 - Feb 2014  Software: C#, MVC, WCF, Entity Framework, MS SQL SERVER 2008, Java Script, JQuery, JSON, Ajax, CSS, Microsoft Team Foundation Server    03 Project Name Migration of Back office applications  Domain Client Healthcare JPMorgan Chase, Dallas, TX    Description of the project:  J.P. Morgan has several back office applications which serves purpose of various activities from processing claims to record payments and manipulate data based on client requirements. All these applications were developed in .net Framework 1.1 & 2.0. This project required to migrate these applications to latest .net framework 4.0. Software Developer Mphasis Corporation - Dallas, TX October 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities: • Sole responsibility of converting all back office applications • Understanding functionality of all the applications to be converted. • Migration of all the back office applications from framework 1.1 to 4.0. • Testing & monitoring all the converted applications. • Tracking & analyzing defects discovered during testing. • Creation of build scripts for deployment using Nant build script. • Providing support during deployment on the production environment.  Duration: Oct 2012 - Apr 2013  Software: NET (Framework 1.1, 2.0 and 4.0), ADO.NET, C#, Sub-Version (SVN)  04 Project Name Performance Improvement and Stability  Domain Client Healthcare JPMorgan Chase, Dallas, TX  Description of the project:  Performance Improvement and Stability is a special track introduced by client. Need for this track is to improve performance of JP Morgan's key healthcare applications. As part of it we catered each & every technical aspect for these applications. Performance gets tested for all possible sources like .NET code or database (Tables, procedures etc.).We provide details of improvement areas & suggestions to client & based on client approval changes gets implemented. Software Developer Mphasis Corporation - Dallas, TX February 2012 to October 2012 Responsibilities: • Testing applications for performance improvement • Provide performance statistics to the client with the help of various tools • Provide suggestions to the client for performance improvements. • Handling client calls with regards to performance improvement areas and new business requirements. • Understanding new business requirements. • Documenting Functional Specification Documents (FSD) and discussing it with client for approval. • Documenting Low Level Design documents(LLD's) • Documenting Unit Test cases for change requests.  Duration: Feb 2012 - Oct 2012  Software: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#, Sub-Version (SVN), Microsoft Visio 2003, Telerik controls, HTTPWatch, Fiddler Web Debugger, SQL Server 2005.    05 Project Name Health Care Link (HCL)  Domain Client Healthcare JPMorgan Chase, Dallas, TX  Description of the project:  J.P. Morgan is the first financial services company to achieve accreditation by the Electronic Healthcare Network Accreditation Commission (EHNAC) for electronic healthcare processing with HIPAA guidelines.  Health Care Link (HCL) solution automates the capture and passage of electronic files of "Explanations of benefits (EOBs)" for faster, more accurate posting into clients patient accounting or practice management system. HCL also supports legacy paper processes. It also provides the facility to the hospitals to manage their insurance related data such as Claim, ERA and Payments. This application provides the facility to post the payments, reconcile the Payment with ERA using multiple rules.  HCL has more than 25 Applications to support web site Data.    Other Key Application which supports HCL  1. Lockbox Importer  2. Med File Distributor  3. Integration Operation Tool Kit  4. Secondary Billing  5. HCL Automation  6. Guarantor Billing  7. BAI Generator  8. Eob to XML  9. Lockbox Repair  10. Medical File Importer Software Developer Mphasis Corporation - Dallas, TX August 2009 to February 2012 Role: Software Developer  Responsibilities: • Handled various projects using .net versions 1.1/2.0 - C#, ASP.NET • Played role as Dot net developer. • Coding of PL/SQL Stored Procedures, functions. • Design and development of n- tier architecture applications. • Involved in task planning, requirement analysis, design and development of multiple website modules • Design, Development & Integration of multiple back office applications which supports health care website • BRD discussion Involvement for new requirements • Test Driven Development (TDD) • Project Documentation • Support for live deployment & post deployment issues • nAnt Script Creation for Building the Application  Duration: Aug 2009 - Feb 2012  Software: ASP.NET, C# , Web Services, ADO.Net, Microsoft Enterprise Library, MS SQL SERVER 2005, NAnt Build script, Java Script , Ajax, CSS, Telerik Rad Control, Daeja Viewer, SSRS.  06 Project Name JPMC- Mapping  Domain Client Healthcare JPMorgan Chase, Dallas, TX  Description of the project:    JPMC works on several mapping tools to map physical scanned copies of checks & EOBs to database tables. These tools involve Med OCR, File Reader, and Med Balance etc. Mapped data also gets validated based on several rules written in .NET technology applications. Software Developer Mphasis Corporation - Dallas, TX September 2008 to August 2009 Responsibilities: • Learning & understanding different mapping related tools like File Reader, Med OCR, and Med Balance etc. • Analyzing new mapping requests coming from clients. • Work on different mapping templates in order to map physical TIFF images to database records. • Modify rules to update mapped database records as per requirement. Rules are defined in .NET technology. • Deploy modified rules on production. • Testing & monitoring all the modified forms & rules. • Tracking & analyzing defects discovered during testing  Duration: Sep 2008 - Aug 2009  Software: NET (Framework 1.1, 2.0), ADO.NET, C#, Sub-Version (SVN), Windows, SQL Server 2005.    AWARD/RECOGNITION    • Monthly Summit Individual Award winner in March 2010 and June 2014 Education Masters in Computer Application in Computer Science University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra 2006 to 2008 Bsc Information Technology in Computer Science University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra 2002 to 2004 Skills Dot Net 4.0/2.0/1.1, C#, ASP.NET, MVC, ADO.NET,WCF, SQL-Server 2005/2008,IIS6, IIS 7, XML, HTML, Java Script, JQuery, CSS