Web 2.0 developer Web 2.0 <span class="hl">developer</span> Web 2.0 developer - Kaiser Permanente Fremont, CA • Quality experience in IT Industry Developing, Testing, Integrating and Implementing the web based applications and UI applications.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML 4.0/5, CSS2/3, and JavaScript frameworks.  • Very good experience in developing applications based on comps and wireframes, and have a strong understanding of business requirements, and also experienced in dealing with challenging High Traffic Websites and Cross Browser Issues.  • Hands on experience in working with front-end technologies/frame work and libraries like JQuery, OO JavaScript, JSON, CSS, and AJAX.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug and chrome Developer Tools.  • Developed websites using JavaScript MVC frameworks such as Angular.js, Backbone.js and Bootstrap.  • Used Backbone.JS to develop rich UI applications and used CSS frameworks like Bourbon and Neat for style guide and pre-processed with SASS.  • Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or Safari Web Inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar.  • Worked in a challenging and fast paced environment where deliverables are met on time with good code quality and followed some best practices like pair programming and code review using Fisheye.  • Worked in Test driven development (TDD) where the code has been unit tested with testing frameworks like Mocha, Chai, CasperJS and used SinonJS and dyson for data mocking.  • Excellent experience in SOAP, Restful Web services consumption and in using Soap and Rest Clients like SOAPUI and Postman.  • Setup build and deploy jobs in Jenkins for continuous integration and automated deployments. Been a part of the team from the development phase to release and observed closely industry best practices followed by an AGILE team.  • Used GitHub, Stash, Bitbucket and Tortoise SVN for source code management and for version control.  • Worked with various IDE's like Sublime text, Brackets, Atom, Notepad++, eclipse, WebStorm.  • Worked in an environment which had one week sprints/iterations and was able to deliver the user stories within time and successfully met deliverables with quality code.  • Experience with Agile projects, following releases, iterations, User Stories, tasks. Also, can multi-task and work independently as well as a good team player. Work Experience Web 2.0 developer Kaiser Permanente June 2015 to Present Project Responsibilities:  • Involved in all aspects of the project right from requirements phase to production support and worked in agile work environment.  • Participated in gathering and documenting client needs to the granularity and worked towards prototyping the same.  • Interacted with client periodically to gather the requirements and presenting demos.  • Performed form field validations using Webshim, a polyfiller which is cross-browser compatible.  • Structured the JavaScript code using Backbone.js, Angular.js (1.5, 2) frameworks and used libraries like UnderscoreJS and Lodash for developing rich UI web applications.  • Used Angular 1.5 with Typescript to develop a Single Sign-on web application for KP.org and helped in transitioning the application from Backbone JS to Angular1.5 and Typescript.  • Used Angular2(4 currently) to develop a credit card page template for adding, deleting and editing credit card information which is used to process Rx prescriptions payment profile and proposed to be used for medical bills payment as well.  • Involved in design discussions for payment-profile project, worked closely with security team in maintaining a secure state in masking the credit card info and using form-urlencoded, JSON payload to securely get and post credit card information from the server to client.  • Implemented CSRF token adhering to OWASP best practices for posting information to API's to prevent CSRF attacks on the web pages and developed logic to keep the session alive.  • Used UI-Router to build a single page application for managing navigation between different states and routes. Participated in Design review meetings with the architecture team and was involved in tech huddles and also helped in documenting the Solution Architecture Document(SAD) for the project using tools like OmniGraffle.  • Developed future state UI by analyzing the business requirements by client and presented demos to the product owners.  • Performed Front-end web design using HTML 5, CSS, Javascript frameworks. Followed Test Driven development using testing frameworks like MochaJS, Protractor and used assertion libraries like ChaiJS and used SinonJs, dyson for data mocking.  • Used task runner and local server like Grunt and managed dependencies using Bower and NPM. Handled promises using RSVPJS, $q(angular).  • Styling the web pages using CSS 3 and used frameworks like bourbon and neat which is bundled by pre-processor like SASS and also used Twitter bootstrap.  • Involved in developing Dynamic web pages using industry standard applications and W3C compliant XHTML and CSS code for effective web design.  • Developed web pages which are ADA compliant. Used screen readers like NVDA and JAWS to follow WCAG 2.0 standards and made application more accessible.  • Worked with business analysts to understand their business models and goals and help define strategy, content, and features.  • Used Stash, Bitbucket sub version tools for code check-in and checkout. Followed trunk and branch based development.  • Managed content in the project using Content Management Systems(CMS) like HP Teamsite, AEM.  • Worked on Adobe Experience Manager(AEM) and authored, published content which is good for component and template handling and presented a rich UI to the end user.  • Setup build and deploy jobs in Jenkins for continuous integration of code. Have good experience writing UI, unit, contract tests which augmented code quality.  • Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQuery and Webshim, Bootstrap.  • Worked in trusted pair programming environment and peer to peer code reviews using Fisheye, also tested security breaches using tools like Fortify, NEXUSIQ.  • Updated release notes using tools like Plutora and actively participated in deployment and release of product and supported any pre, post production issues.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using jQuery AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Worked on Rest API's and Restful and SOAP web services and used soap and rest clients like SOAPUI and Postman.  • Participated in stand-up calls, grooming and sprint planning meetings and effective communication with project manager and developers.    Environment: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Backbone JS Angular JS, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, LINUX, Jenkins. SOA Developer BrightFonts Inc February 2015 to April 2015 Project Responsibilities:  • Leveraged Oracle SOA Suite11g/12c with the new adapters such as Oracle Event Processing 12c.  • Built SOA composites using BPEL/OSB/Mediator components.  • Leveraged SOA best practices and SOA design patterns, during development of the service composites.  • Developed a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based design of the collaboration product involving designing and creating schemas and WSDL's (web services) to develop BPEL processes to integrate various incompatible modules.  • Involved in writing SQL queries using SQL Developer.  • SOAP UI is used for Unit Testing the web services.  • Worked on IIB (IBM Integration Bus) and WebSphere Message Broker for messaging.  • Experience and exposure to Service Governance, Securing Services (Transport and Message Level Security) X509 Certificate installation between client-servers, Web Services Provisioning, Addressing.  • Worked on BPEL, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT and Web Service Security.  • Orchestration of process that are leveraged on Oracle SOA Suite 11g with high end services developed in SOA Composites and J2EE running on WebLogic Server.    Environment: JDK 1.6, Oracle SOA, BPEL, OSB, Orchestration, Integration JPA (EJB3.0), XML, XML Schemas, XSLT, SOAP-UI, WSDL, JMS, Oracle 10g, Toad, Maven 4.0, Log4j, Web Services(JAX-WS), JAXB, REST FUL, Web logic. Computer Technician/ Webmaster Southern Illinois University Carbondale July 2014 to December 2014 Project Responsibilities:  • Worked in the Networking/IT department at SIU on a RezNet Move-In Project which is primarily focused on assisting the students to move-in to the dorms and setup their PC, mobile and tablet devices and configure and install WPA2 Enterprise wireless security certificates and make sure the devices are malware and virus-free.  • Developed Online Waiver forms and work logs using HTML, CSS and JQuery to track the requests for devices that are bought in for the RezNet move-in.  • Helping new students generate their SSID's for internal LAN networks and providing them with the authentication tokens to securely access the RezNet networks.  • Involved in installing routers and configuring them using CAT-5 cables across the residence halls providing wireless access to 20,000 computers and other devices based on the increased usage of devices on the campus.  • Worked as a web master and assisted content management system in publishing, editing content on the webpages. Software Developer Platinus Technologies Inc October 2012 to July 2013 Project Responsibilities:  • Developed the UI layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application based on client requirements.  • Worked closely with the project lead to better understand the technical requirements and resolved post production defects.  • Worked on debugging the web application using Chrome dev tools, firebug and developing code as per W3C standards.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and jQuery in on- going projects.  • Used JQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depending on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application.  • Improved user experience by designing and creating new web components and features.  • Followed MVC Structure to develop Application and worked on REST/SOAP APIs.  • Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows and Mac.  Environment: CSS3, XML, HTML/DHTML, JavaScript, Tomcat Apache, JQuery, JSP, AJAX, SVN Skills Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Typescript, Jenkins, Json, Xml, Ajax, Tomcat, Ui web, Web server, jquery, Angularjs, Http, Database, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Ui, Apache Additional Information Skill Matrix  UI Web Technologies XML, HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Typescript, JQuery, AngularJS (1,2), backbone.js, AJAX, JSON  IDE, HTML Editor Notepad++, Sublime Text, Brackets, Atom, Webstorm  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat 5.0.25, HTTP Web Server, Jenkins  Database SQL SERVER, MYSQL  Operating Systems Windows 2000, Windows XP (Prof), Windows 7, MAC, Xubuntu  Methodologies AGILE  Designing Tools Photoshop, Illustrator, OmniGraffle