Software Development Engineer II <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Engineer II Chicago, IL I am a full stack developer with a preference for front-end development. As a self taught learner, I have formed a passion for discovering new technologies and methodologies. Code quality is something I value without sacrificing a sense of urgency. With 5 years of experience in web and mobile development, I can cover all platforms: responsive, Android, iOS, etc.    ?  Technical Tools    Font-End Native Back-End Working Knowledge Testing  Javascript Xamarin - Android NodeJS TypeScript Sinon  AngularJs WebRTC MongoDB Kendo Chi  Redux Electron C# Azure Deployment Mocha  Polymer ASP.NET  ES6  HTML 5  CSS / LESS / SASS    Tools: Git, Jira, Postman, JetBrains - Webstorm, Microsoft Visual Studio    ? Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Development Engineer II CSGI - Chicago, IL April 2017 to Present My career at CSG developed over time, starting with porting a SilverLight application to AngularJs. After the platform was deployed to production, my role evolved to supporting the first client by implementing new features and solving critical production defects. I was promoted in the first nine months of working with CSG due to the production efforts and through designing a script, on the side, that automated the release, patching, and hofix process for the UI. New responsibilities included being assigned as one of three people required to approve pull requests for the style-guide. In January of 2019 I began to lead a UI only development team for feature development for a new client, while simultaneously being a liaison between API, UI, and UX. I worked with multiple API teams and the UX team to assist in solution designs. In February of 2019 I began the process of interviewing candidates for a new international team of eleven members. In addition to interviewing these candidates, my duties included: helping with the onboarding process, training the new developers in our best practices, and sharing platform wide knowledge.    Side CSG related projects:  - DreamDashboard  Developed a server utility using Electron, React, and Firebase with team members as an innovation project. This is used to monitor the status, versioning, and smoke tests of our QA and performance environments. I later modified the service to run on a RaspberryPi. DreamDashboard is relied on by more than 80 coworkers each day.    - SoS (Script of Scripts / Help)  Developed a shell script to handle building the UI project for Ascendon. This was originally done manually, cloning each project and linking appropriate branches for eleven different repositories. This script automates this process reducing a fresh build time from over three hours to four minutes. Software Developer BBVA Compass September 2016 to April 2017 I worked with Polymer.js and Cordova to build a large scale multi-platform app that is currently in production. The BBVA Compass app is developed by a large team with over 200 components that runs on Web, Android, iOS, and Windows. I am also responsible for developing, implementing, and designing new features. Each new feature includes demos, documentation, and tests that adhere to the architect standards using Lint and Istanbul. Other responsibilities include bug fixing, research on best practices, production support, and following a responsive design standard using SCSS. Software Engineer Instances, LLC August 2014 to August 2016 Mobile App Project  The team used Xamarin to create a multi-platform app via a Portable Class Library. This project was developed using C# and native practices. Android, iOS, and Windows were designed to strictly follow each specific design standards set by the platform. I was also part of the design team in charge of app mockups, storyboards, and logos. Other focuses on this project were implementing new PCL & Android features, bug testing, and analysis of code to engineer well-researched solutions.  - Website Project  The backed of the website was developed with C# and SQL hosted on Azure Services. The frontend was a SPA designed with Kendo, jQuery, HTML5, and LESS. As a team communication platform, I researched and developed WebRTC for Chrome and Firefox as well as designed custom versions for IE and Safari. I developed plugins for each platform which was necessary for screen share and notifications. Electron apps for Windows, macOS, and Linux were developed using TypeScript. As a member of the founding team, I also helped architect design standards, API practices, and the backend structure.  - Embedding Project  Lead the project for external embedding and CMS plugin development. Designed plugins that embedded Instances into WordPress, Concrete5, Drupal, Joomla, and Magento.  - Company Website Project  Lead a team in designing a self hosted WordPress site with a custom built theme. MySQL was for the database.  - General  Managed promotional marketing items, event logistics, test groups, brand design, and external communications (PR, social media, marketing). Represented Instances at the CodeMash developers conference. Education B.S. in Biology in Pre-Med Samford University / Howard College of Arts and Sciences 2011 Skills ES6 (2 years), Git (5 years), Web Development (5 years), Javascript (5 years), AngularJS (4 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/christonburns