Customer Engineer Customer Engineer Customer Engineer - Jam City San Francisco, CA • 6+ years of experience as a professional Python Developer withdeep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies. Strong involvement in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of different Web Applications utilizingDjango, flask frame works.  • Skillful involvement in Python by developing software's utilizing new tools, libraries utilized: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, PySide, python-twitter, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas data frame, urllib2, MySQLdb. to improve software development process.  • Experience in developing Web Services (SOAP, Restful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Experience in working with various version control systems like GIT, CVS and SVN.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, AngularJS, Hibernate, CSS/CSS3 and JavaScript, Node.js, Backbone.js, D3, jQuery that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Proficient in using editor's like Eclipse, sublime text,NetBeans, PyCharm, Pyscripter, spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Experience in Linux Bash Scripting and PEP guidelines in python.  • Expertise in developing web based open stack applications for large dataset analysis using Python and Django.  • Used Python Unit test framework for developing and implementing the unit tests using Test driven approach.  • Good Hands on experience in establishing connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like MySQL-Python, JDBC.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Hands on experience in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Service Analysis Service (SSAS).  • Hands on experience with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL.  • Experience with NoSQL database's like MongoDB & REDIS.  • Providing support for Linux servers and workstation in Department of Physics.  • Experience in working with GUI frameworks with packages like PyJamas, Jytho, guidata, PyGUI, PyQt.  • Good knowledge in working with Web/application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Tornado, Cherrypy, Chaussette, Rocket  • Experience in infrastructure as service (IaaS), Platform as service (PaaS), Software as a service (SaaS) & end user computing.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Interacting with supervisors, artists, system administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met. Work Experience Customer Engineer Jam City - San Francisco, CA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development, implementation and testing.  • Used Django/flask Framework in developing web applications to implement the Model View Control architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  • Python's Unit Test library was used for testing code.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, JSON and AJAX.  • Used PostgreSQL as backend database and PyGreSQL of Python as database connector to interact with server.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various Python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  • Used SVN for the version control.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Involved in design, implementation and modifying the python code and PostgreSQL database schema on-the back end.  • Had regular interactions with customers and gathered requirements in Big Data collation, summation, filtering and normalizing the data.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Used Regex to get the test reports of all matches, and it is used to debug each match attempt step by step  • Interactive in providing requirements collection, change requests andtrouble reports with the client.  • Ensured the best possible performance, quality, and responsiveness of the applications.  Environment:Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, PostgreSQL DB, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, JIRA. Python developer Ericsson - San Jose, CA August 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using GIT, Gerrit, Jenkins, PostgreSQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Python.  • Built a REDIS based job handling functionality.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 2.7 and its familiar framework Django.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Developed Django dashboard with custom look by using the study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Automated data movements using Python scripts.  • Worked on Selenium testing framework.  • Written Shell Scripting for automation.  • Worked with Linux shell commands and command line utilities.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for data manipulation and retrieval.  • For manipulation of data from the database, various queries were written and created a database using MongoDB  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Developed a Go services and associated Helm charts for deployment on Kubernetes.  • Created and populated digital brochures using PageTurnPro and built photo galleries on website in the Django CMS and using Django CMS plugin.  • Configuring SSO for different applications in different domains with Cookie Provider and troubleshooting issues related to them.  • Maintenance and development of a high-traffic and demand site and platform running on a custom-rolled Django CMS.  • Implemented signal-based message queueing using REDIS MQ.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.7,Django, Django-CMS, SSO, Django-CMS plugins, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, Pandas API, Selenium, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON. Python Developer SOLTECH - Atlanta, GA December 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website.  • Involved in preparing the mockups using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire modules using Python 2.7 on Django Web Framework.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Built the "Optiv Managed Security Services" service delivery portal from ground up using Angular, Node JS, NGINX.  • Optimized web server performance including Apache, Nginx, MySQL andMemcache.  • Used Virtualenv for creating virtual environment and deployed the project in Nginx web server.  • Built a scalable distributed data solution using Hadoop.  • Involved in installation and configuration of the various Hadoop ecosystem tools such as Sqoop, Flume, Pig and Hbase.  • Developed reporting application using Node.js, JavaScript, JQuery and PostgreSQL.  • Created a private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, PostgreSQL, Bootstrap, jQuery, GIT, Selenium..  • Implemented the spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects.  • Created Real-time Reporting systems and dashboards using Adobe Flex, MySQL and Perl.  • Wrote JMS classes to communicate with MQ series deployed at Credit Card Issuing using SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  • Deployed and configured portlets in WebSphere server and DB2.  • Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using Adobe Flex.  • Involved in basic CRUD operations and in the deployment of Web Service End-Points using Apache CXF.  • Ensured the best performance, quality and responsiveness of the application.  Environment:Python 2.7, Django, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS,Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, MATLAB, Apache, Nginx,PostgreSQL, Memcache,Ubuntu, CherryPy, GIT, Selenium, Adobe Flex. Python Developer Consumers Energy - Jackson, MI May 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created APIs and Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Involved in design, implementation and modifying the python code and MySQL database schema on the back end.  • Installed and Configured Linux with Apache, Oracle and PHP.  • Developed widgets for GUI using modules of Python.  • Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  • Managing of internet security and acceleration throughout the network using Microsoft's ISA server.  • Used third party JQuery based plug-ins like JQuery UI, Data tables etc. Heavily used JavaScript for Form Submit and other UI elements during development.  • Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the queue.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python twitter library.  • Created the domains, application servers and load balancers using WebLogic 9.0.  • Designed extensive additions to existing Python Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  • Implementation under Red Hat, Ubuntu, and Windows 7, both locally and on Cisco Cloud.  • Profiled Python code for optimization and memory management.  Environment:Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ubuntu, PHP, Apache, Oracle, Linux, Unix, Cisco Cloud. Software Engineer Aricent Group - IN August 2011 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated with team on implementing new features and UX in an agile environment.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Used Functionalities which includes writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and JSP making use of Bootstrap framework.  • Used AngularJS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating with Restful services  • Worked on Bootstrap CSS framework for Responsive Web Design.  • Developed Object Oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client-side validations using jQuery functions.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX and jQuery.  • Implemented data-binding and MVC using AngularJS for front-end development of a current web application  • Refined and iterated user experience by designing and implementing new modules and interfaces in a complex, responsive site.  • Involved in up gradation and maintenance of Life Insurance Corporation website to the new layout using the Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Involved in Agile/SCRUM based approach to UI Development.  • Involved in raising the change requests and entering all the production issues into the remedy system.  Environment: NetBeans, Xml, HTML, XHTMLCSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Linux. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Northeastern University - Boston, MA Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University - Bengaluru, Karnataka Skills C/c++, C++, Django, Git, Node.js, Webpack, Python, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Svn, Web services, Eclipse, Java, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Linux, Angularjs Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: Python 2.7, 3.0, 3.4, C/C++, Java, Scala, Shell Script.  Databases: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, NoSQL/Mongo.  Web Technologies:ES6, Webpack, AngularJS, Node.js, Django, Ruby on Rails, React.js, Sass  Operating systems: Windows, Linux, MAC OSX.  Development tools: Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans and Sublime Text.  Web Services: Amazon S3, AWS.  Version Control: GIT, CVS, SVN.