Java/Full Stack Developer Java/Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/Full Stack Developer - Home Depot Atlanta, GA • 7 Years experienced in all stages of design, development, and deployment of Java/J2EE-based application system for Telecom-services/Healthcare services industry.  • Extensive experience in multi-tier, distributed & SOA based application development.  • Experience in designing, development, implementation, building software products & solutions across variety of business.  • Experience in design and architect experience in J2EE based application systems  • Experience in UI User Interface development using JSP, JSTL, JQuery, and AngularJS,NodeJS.  • Hands on experience in developing Single Page Applications SPA using AngularJS,backbone.js and Node.js  • Extensive experience in developing application software using Java, J2EE, Servlet, JSP, EJB 2.0/3.0, JAX WS, Spring framework, Spring Batch, Spring integration, ORM (Hibernate), JDBC, JNDI, JMS, XSD, XML, SAX, DOM, JAXB, XSLT, HTML, JavaScript.  • Experienced in reengineering, migration, Enterprise Application Integration (EAI), Unified Modelling Language (UML), Object Oriented Application Design (OOAD), performance analysis, optimization and security.  • Recommended alternate strategies, solutions and maintained and developed comprehensive architecture documentation also provided prototyping and architectural designs.  • Experienced in Java/J2EE design patterns, Enterprise Integration Patterns (EIA), ETL, E-R Data Modelling Spring frameworks, best practices, Quality assurance, Deployment and Support  • Experienced in Data Structure, Integration Broker, Messaging, Proof of Concepts (POC), re-usable and components developments  • Experience in caching, Data Replication and performance tuning.  • Experience in designing application using functional and non-functional requirements.  • Intensive knowledge in databases like Oracle 11g, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Queries, Triggers, DB2 Client, O/R Mapping, Hibernate, and JPA.  • Proficient in development of enterprise business solutions using Apache Tomcat, Web Logic and JBOSS application servers.  • Domain knowledge in banking, Insurance, Telecommunication, hospitality services and media  • Experience in Agile and Waterfall software model Methodologies Development  • Performed in the roles of Application Designer, Technical & Development Lead, Application Support, Project implementation and single contact point (SPOC) for project execution and deliverables.  • Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software SVN, VSS, CVS.  • Experience with Test-Driven Development TDD and Pair Programming.  • Experience in developing rich Internet applications using Ajax and JQuery.  • Skilled in developing application in python language for multiple platforms.  • Strong knowledge in principles, OOPS concepts, Configuration management, build process and release management  • Review and approved external party's systems and solutions as per specifications.  • Experience in SOAP, WSDL with JAXB, DOM and SAX Parser. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/Full Stack Developer Home Depot - Atlanta, GA November 2015 to Present Project- CPR to Rewards  The application was created to provide discounts to the Pro and DIY (military) customers to drive the sales. Worked on a module called "Managed Accounts' which provides the ability to assign one or more customers to a Territory via the Admin Portal. Customer to Territory relationship, and Territory to PAR relationships will continue to flow back to National Accounts Database from Rewards in order to maintain accurate historical data of these Managed Accounts.  Responsibilities:  • Developed HTML interfaces with an understanding of UI design principles and object-oriented program development  • Implemented JSON for massive data transfer between Client/Server, different component coding structure, AJAX calls consumed by XML Http Request object (JavaScript) and http service (AngularJS).  • Implemented different validation control on the web pages using Angular JS.  • Created continuous integration builds using Ant Jenkins. And deployed on WebSphere app server  • Used MVC Framework in the development for data binding and to consume RESTful web services.  • Responsible to provide shell scripts and cron jobs for stand-alone reporting processes Unix, Perl, Groovy, Ruby scripts  • Used Node.js, grunt to run angular.  • Developed Angular custom directives to make them integrate with Oracle Web Center sites.  • Built main application leveraging technologies such as Angular.js, Backbone.js.  • Implemented JSF MVC framework to make separate behavior and presentation in application.  • Used Jira to track the user stories and defects with agile technology.  • Used Stash repository to check in the code with Git.  • Exchanged data with the help of JSON files to exchange data between server and client.  • Managed time effectively meeting all the deadlines for the release of projects.  • Worked on multiple project timelines simultaneously within a deadline driven environment.  • Developed, modified, and implemented the Web site to ensure consistency of layout in accordance with client goals.  Environment: J2EE 1.6, Spring, Hibernate 4.0, Web Services, SOAP, REST, DB2, Eclipse, Enterprise Architect, Oracle 11g, JUnit, Log4j, Maven, IBM using RAD v8.0x. J2EE Application Developer CIGNA - Atlanta, GA August 2014 to November 2015 Project- Dependable Reward Account Management System  Cigna is a global health insurance service company that offers health dental and supplementary insurance and Medicare plans to individuals, families, and businesses. Dependable Reward Account Management System (DReAM) is a Spring-Hibernate based an enterprise application, which is going to be providing incentives for CIGNA's customer. This system allows business to configure incentives program, case install, reward processing and tracking customer's redemptions.  Responsibilities:  • Designed JPA project for REST Web Services to interact with DBA.  • Understanding and translating the requirements into application and system design.  • Prepared and maintained Architectural documents, nonfunctional requirements document for various project modules  • Responsible for the design of DReAM oracle database with DBA.  • Developed Web Services to allow communication between the applications using Rest Web Services.  • Designed and developed the application based on Hibernate Framework and Spring MVC.  • Developed Servlets and Utilized Node.js to create a fast and efficient chat server.  • Designed, developed, and analyzed the front-end and back-end using Servlets, JSP and Spring 3.0. Integrated Spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  • Utilizing Backbone.js for client-side display logic and asynchronous communication with the server.  • Responsible for creating canonical model and XML schema for different interfaces. (ePro, CCDR, ACME, Redwood).  • Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, JSF and CSS.  • Built user interfaces using the Angular JS which accepts JSON input from REST Web Services.  • Involved in SCRUM process of AGILE methodology in requirement gathering, design, analysis, and code development through iterations  • Proactively involved in applying design concepts, layered architecture, Components, interfaces, messaging and patterns of the applications.  • Leading the development team, assigning tasks for team members and code reviewing.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS jQuery, JSON, JBoss, Web Services, Hibernate, Spring MVC, REST full Web service. J2EE Application Developer CIGNA - Atlanta, GA June 2014 to August 2014 Project- e-Wellness Care Management System  e-Wellness Care Management System, helps organizations renew the health, energy, and performance of their employees and members, and offers an integrated portfolio of solutions to cover a broad spectrum of population health - from wellness and prevention, to behavioral health, to chronic disease support.  Responsibilities:  • Creating prototypes, testing of design attributes and coordinating with other team members in accomplishing overall objectives.  • Reviewing the test plan with test manager, UAT and integration testing.  • Used Struts framework in the development of Server side components.  • Used Hibernate, Object/relational mapping techniques for the mapping of data.  • Implemented the application using the Struts framework.  • Involved in creating Hibernate annotations and POJO objects.  • Research business needs; industry trends and opportunities.  • Thin client rendering: HTML, Tag Libs, JavaScript, XML, JSP and Servlets.  • Eclipse used as Java IDE tool for creating JSPs, Servlets, EJBs, and XML.  • Coded Maven build scripts to build and deploy the application on Web logic.  • Developed the statistics graph using JSP, Applets and Swing in a multithreaded architecture.  • Implementation of ePro & CCDR interfaces using spring batch technology.  • Implementation of back end and middle tier layers using spring technologies.  • Worked on Agile Scrum methodology with 2-week sprints, attended milestone meetings, planning meetings, and very good knowledge in Rally.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, JBoss, Web Services, Hibernate, Spring MVC, REST full Web service. J2EE Developer Sprint - Reston, VA January 2014 to June 2014 Project-Consumer Portal  Sprint Corporation is an American telecommunication holding company that provides its users wireless services and is also a internet service provider. Sprint uses Amdocs to provide a single billing and customer care platform.  Responsibilities:  • Implementation of the symphony order flow through among NGT, OP and Common UI.  • Extensively worked on implementation of the SLA Audit Reports using Oracle objects like Stored Procedure, Java Procedure, and Function.  • Implementation Stored of entire mechanism for Automating Daily, weekly, and monthly Reports using Unix Shell Scripts and Oracle.  • Used Spring MVC framework controllers for Controllers part of MVC.  • Developed Web Services to allow communication between the applications using Rest Web Services.  • Involved implementation of Symphony SYS PRIN Merge activity for the West, NE, and NW billing accounts.  • Involved in creating test plans, fixing bugs in the application.  • Involved enhancement/defect fixes in Order auto correction and flow through between billing systems Amdocs and APS-JR provisioning system.  • Involved in post-production testing and support for month to month and emergency releases.  • Adopted Agile as software methodology for development and delivery  Environment: Java 1.5, Concept Wave, Unix, JSP, Servlet, Hibernate, Spring MVC , html, CSS, SOAP, XML, XSD, Eclipse, SVN, UNIX, JMS, JavaScript, Perl Scripting, Oracle 11, WebSphere 6.0, and Web logic 6.1 & 8.1. Software Engineer IBM India Pvt Ltd June 2011 to July 2013 Project-IBM Global Financing  IBM GBS is a global leader in IT services, digital and business solutions that collaborates with its clients to simplify, strengthen, and transform their businesses. IBM Global Financing helps credit-qualified clients acquire IT solutions that they need in the most cost-effective way and strategic way.  Responsibilities:  • Created a new approval request workflow using Java and J2EE technologies with MVC architecture.  • Implemented "Supervisor" view to reroute the inventory requests from subordinates to the manager.  • Developed JSP pages along with client side validation.  • Responsible for developing a communication interfaces to retrieve data using SQL queries.  • Developed JUnit tests and created test plans for QA team.  • Assisted automation team members with code walkthroughs and provided suggestions for making automation scripts more modularized.  • Involved in developing Java API's for automation framework.  • Coordinated with other UI team members to write automation friendly locators.  • Extensively used UML to develop various use case, class diagrams  Environment: Java 1.5, Struts, JMS, HTML, CSS, XML, WSAD, HTML4.0, Log4J, DB2. Software Engineer IBM India Pvt Ltd June 2010 to July 2011 Project-International Customer Financing System  IBM GBS is a global leader in IT services, digital and business solutions that collaborates with its clients to simplify, strengthen, and transform their businesses. IBM ICFS helps credit-qualified clients acquire IT solutions that they need in the most cost-effective way and strategic way.  Responsibilities:  • Developed various JSP pages to maintain well-structured GUI and to interact with Session beans.  • Developed Dynamic and Static front end screens using JSP for user input and to display data.  • Data retrieval, manipulation and transaction management using JDBC and container managed transactions.  • Developed Client Side cookie implementation and Client side validation using JavaScript.  • Slashed number of software bugs reported 50% by improving software quality through comprehensive testing, code inspections, and standardizing and streamlining software development process.  Environment: Java 1.5, Struts, HTML, CSS, iReport, XML, HTML4.0, Log4J, DB2. Education Bachelor's in Mechanical Engineering PSG College Technology Skills JAVA (6 years), XML (6 years), J2EE (5 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (5 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (5 years), J2EE 1.6, Spring, Hibernate 4.0, Web Services, SOAP, REST, DB2, Eclipse, Enterprise Architect, Oracle 11g, JUnit, Log4j, Maven, IBM using RAD v8.0x. (8 years), Angular, PHP, Node, React, Javascript, NET, Python, C#, Angularjs, AWS, Jquery, Nodejs Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming languages Java 6, PHP 5, HTML5,, SQL, JavaScript, C, C , XML  J2EE Technologies Java EE, JSP, Servlet, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, JSTL, JPA  Frameworks Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring integration, Hibernate 3.x, Struts 1.x/2.x, GWT,  Web Technologies AngularJS, Node.js , jQuery UI, Ajax, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript CSS3, RESTful Service, JavaScript/jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, XML JSTL, DOJO, , XSD, XML, XSLT, DOM, JAXP, JAXB  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere 7.0/8.1, Web logic 10.3  Web Service SOAP, REST, WSDL, JAX-WS, CXF, AXIS, JAX-RS, WS-Security, SOAP UI  Data Bases Oracle 9i/10g,11g , MongoDB 2.6, MS SQL Server 2008, MySQL 5/6,DB2, TOAD, SQL Developer  Build Deployment Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Mule ESB  Big Data Tools MongoDB, Cassandra, Map Reduce  Design Tools Enterprise Architect, Oracle Data Modeler, Erwin 8.0  Best Practices/Process Gang of Four Design Patterns, Agile, Jtest, Log4j  Version Control Systems Apache Subversion SVN, CVS, Git and Github  Operating Systems Windows 2000, Windows XP, UNIX, Linux, Windows 7/8