Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> C++ Developer Cedar Rapids, IA Sr. Software Engineer with over 8 years of experience, with strong Problem Domain definition and Object Oriented development skills. Extensive experience in Project Coordination, Architecture Design, Implementation, Integration and Maintenance of Software subsystems in Java, C++, Unix, SQL Experience and also providing Level 2 and Level 3 support for the applications Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Star Workforce Solutions March 2019 to Present Worked on developing backend process for Cloud Source HRM software, held meetings with vendors and management to outline new business requirements and translate them into technical specifications and tasks. Responsible in spearheading the development of new applications to support the company's growth. Apps were used to maintain data - store and maintain vendor information and process service orders.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed the activities and UI layers.  ? Added new features, bug fixing and performance improvements, along with increasing the number of devices supported by the app.  ? Worked extensively with UI frameworks such as Android Fragments to design screens  ? Utilized web-services (XML, SOAP, JSON), in order to tie our applications to critical server-side APIs.  ? Developed GPS services to update the user locations.  ? Used Intent Integrator for using the QR codes and Camera API for accessing the camera to use the QR code.  ? Used services, Async tasks and Alert Notification API to implement reminder feature into the mobile app.  ? Used SQLiteOpenHelper for databases.  ? Worked using Agile methodology to meet timeline with quality deliverables.  ? Used Web Views, Tab Layouts for user-friendly interaction.  ? Working closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between the mobile application and the web application.  ? Used Phone Gap to perform HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for the app.  ? Designing the UI using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes, and various forms of widgets.  ? Implemented the Action Bar search icon for quick search access.  ? Analyzed code to identify and improve performance bottlenecks and contingencies with shared resources. Streamlining the code was instrumental in reducing support costs.  ? Responsible for maintaining, enhancing and developing applications and infrastructure that provide a trading framework    Environment: Python, Machine Learning, Android SDK 4.0+, Tab layout, REST, JSON, Java, Eclipse 3.5, SOAP, XML Camera API, SQLite3, Logcat, DDMS, TraceView. Software Developer HCL Technologies - IN November 2017 to March 2019 HCL Technologies is a next-generation global technology company that helps enterprises reimagine their businesses for the digital age. Our technology products, services and engineering are built on four decades of innovation, with a world-renowned management philosophy, a strong culture of invention and risk-taking, and a relentless focus on customer relationships. With a worldwide network of R&D, innovation labs and delivery centers, and 137,000+ 'Ideapreneurs' working in 44 countries, HCL serves leading enterprises across key industries, including 250 of the Fortune 500 and 650 of the Global 2000.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Verification and validation.  • Understanding and analyzing Requirement specification  • Automating manual test cases using test frame work.  • Design / implementation of scalable navigation capability.  • Design / implementation of suitable data structure for storing graphs in memory and in NoSql database.  • Implementation of shortest route algorithm.  • To develop the HTML5 Course Interaction using HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery & CSS.  • Write an Android service to download and upload content from back end web server via REST API.  • Write an Android Service to implement the Push Notification.  • Implemented Pagination concept, Custom Video & audio Player.  • Integration of C++ based graph generation libraries to platform services using JNI.  • Developed user interface using JSP and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed various Enterprise Java Bean components to fulfill the business functionality.  • Worked with the Mobility team to develop interfaces for Android Mobile Platform integrating to AWS Cloud.  • Involved in developing SQL and Stored procedures with Oracle Database.  • Integration of graph generation libraries with Cassandra using DataStax-C++ APIs.  • Worked on Object Oriented Design and Class Diagrams, Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams using UML.  • Performed system testing on GM SDM50 based on clients' (VEONEER) standards.  • Developing the System Integration test cases for different features of instrument panel cluster (GM Buick MY 21) and validating on the target for each milestone.  • Validate functionalities on all possible scenarios like Voltage, Ignition, Car Modes, and Power Modes.  • Logging of defects in Red mine against functionality verification with detailing, validation upon bug fix and tracking the defect towards closure.  • All the projects worked on are Autosar compliant    Environment: AWS Cloud, AUTOSTAR, C++, EJB, JSP, JavaScript, UML, SQL, NoSQL, JNI, Android 4.0, DataStax-C++ API, Embeded Software Engineer Tangent Technolabs - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2015 to November 2017 Tangent Techno Labs is a state of the art Design and Development center established with the aim of imparting comprehensive Design services and man power outsourcing in core technology domains of Real TimeEmbedded systems, Signal processing, VLSI, Automotive Embedded systems, modelling & simulation and Industrial Automation. Tangent is committed to Quality and Customer Delight.    Responsibilities:  • Application development for IOT gateway project.  • Testing Application code on target and debugging, software update.  • Done Product testing, functionality testing.  • Implemented unique UI design for portrait and landscape mode.  • Implemented custom List View UI Design, list view drag and drop features to rearrange the list view.  • Implemented the Search functionality against with list view.  • Worked on local data storage using SQLite.  • Write an Android service to download and upload content from back end web server via REST API.  • Write an Android Service to implement the Push Notification.  • Done hardware debugging by using St-Link debugger  • Understanding of Schematics and Interface diagram.  • Analyze the frames by using CANalyzer tool with various inputs    Environment: IOT, UI, Android, CANalyzer, REST API, SQL Lite C++ Developer Microbit Embedded Solutions - IN September 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed embedded C code for wireless energy meter using GSM technologies  • Testing the developed code on target and software update.  • Developed Oracle SQL queries, stored procedures for Database Activities. Worked on DDL and DML statements including design of the tables.  • Peer reviews of the Design and Source Code (C, C++, and Shell Scripts).  • Built rpm packages for deployment.  • Developed highly efficient algorithms in C++ through both pair-programming and independent work. The algorithms improved inventory management benchmarks 18 percent.    Environment: C, GSM, C++, Oracle, SQL, Java/C++ Developer DST Worldwide services - IN May 2010 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed in C++ in Windows and Linux environments.  • Designed, developed, and tested software applications meeting deadlines and budgets.  • Specified, prototyped, developed and tested an object-oriented, multiplatform C++ framework containing support to: data structures, common algorithms sockets, threading.  • Fixed bugs in the order management system.  • Design and develop solutions using C, C++, Multi-Threaded, Shell Scripting.  • Automation testing using QTP and VB script  • Analyzing test logs and Results  • Updating script for new features on each milestone    Environment: Java, C++, QTP, VB Script, Windows Server Education Bachelors of Electrical and Electronics Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering JNTU College of Engineering and Technology - Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh Skills API, C++, EMBEDDED C, Git, HTML, XML and XSLT , Java, (7 years), C++, Python, PowerShell, Visual Basic (8 years), Visual C++ , CANoe, CANalyzer, (7 years), UART, UDS, I2C, CAP (7 years), CAN, SPI, LIN, TFS, GIT, (8 years), SVN, SCCS, CVS , AWS, DataStax-C++ API, (8 years), AWS, ISO26262, (8 years), Blackbox Testing, A/B Testing (7 years), TDD, NoSQL, Cassandra, MandoDB (7 years), SQL Server 2005/2008, SQL, T-SQ (8 years), 6.0, JAMS Server, Linux, Solaris (6 years), Windows, Android OS, IOS, MS-Office 2007/XP, (7 years), Adobe Photoshop and Macromedia Flash MX, (7 years), Python, Machine Learning (6 years), Android SDK 4.0+, Tab layout, REST (7 years), JSON, Java, Eclipse 3.5, SOAP, (8 years), XML Camera API, SQLite3, Logcat, (7 years), DDMS, TraceView, : AWS Cloud (7 years), AUTOSTAR, C++, EJB, JSP, (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Embedded Technologies: Embedded C  Mobility: AutoStar, General Motors SDM50, GM Buick MY 21  Web Technologies JavaScript, HTML, ASP, ASP.NET, CSS, DHTML, XML and XSLT  Languages: Java, C, C++, Python, PowerShell, Visual Basic, Visual C++  Tools: CANoe, CANalyzer, UART, UDS, I2C, CAPL, CAN, SPI, LIN, TFS, GIT, SVN, SCCS, CVS  Cloud: AWS  API: DataStax-C++ API, AWS  Standards: ISO26262  Testing: Blackbox Testing, A/B Testing, TDD  Database: NoSQL, Cassandra, MandoDB, SQL Server 2005/2008, SQL, T-SQL, Oracle  Server: IIS 6.0, JAMS Server  Operating Systems: Linux, Solaris, Windows, Android OS, IOS  Other: MS-Office 2007/XP, Adobe Photoshop and Macromedia Flash MX