.Net Developer-Angular .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span>-Angular Software Developer - Federal Aviation Administration Herndon, VA • Around 5 years of experience in Designing, Development and Implementation of Web and Windows based Applications with the skills in Object Oriented Programming.  • Extensive knowledge on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (Planning, Requirement Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance) and agile development methodology.  • Involved in the Upgrading the Angular Version from Angular 5 to Angular 7 and .Net Core Version 2.0 to 2.1.1 • Experienced in designing and developing N-tier Client Server application architecture using C#, VB.NET, Angular 4, 5,7, JavaScript & ASP.NET.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from Planning, Analysis, Design, Development, Documentation, Testing, Implementation, Deployment and Maintenance of various Web Based and Windows applications.  • Excellent experience with C#, Visual Basic(VB.NET), ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Secure API experience in a technical applications development role, Entity Framework, HTML, CSS, Angular, IIS, and SQL Server Management Studio.  • Extensively worked with Entity Framework & ADO.Net Technologies to access database objects and used ODBC, OLEDB Technologies for connecting applications to data sources.  • Experience in working with Win Forms and Web Forms using HTML Controls, ASP.NET Server Controls and User Controls.  • Experience in using MVC design pattern and HTML.  • Experience in working on Entity Framework generating ORM Models and integrating them through SQL and LINQ to Entities to Message the Data.  • Expertise in database design and programming skills in SQL Server, SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views and importing/exporting data from various data sources.  • Extensive experience in using features of .NET Framework Generics collection, Extension methods, Lambda Expression, Events, delegates, process, LINQ and Multi-Threading.  • Worked on protocols like TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS and FTP • Extensive use of OOPS concept like Interface, Inheritance, Polymorphism, Encapsulation and Abstraction.  • Experience in developing and consuming Web Services and related technologies: XML, XSL/XSLT, XML Schemas and SOAP.  • Strong technical background with excellent problem solving and communication skills.  • A good team player, problem solver, and quick learner with analytical Skills. Ability to perform at high level to meet deadlines, adaptable to ever changing priorities. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience .Net Developer-Angular Federal Aviation Administration - Herndon, VA April 2018 to Present Description: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) of the United States is a national authority with powers to regulate all aspects of Civil Aviation. We work on Designee Management System (DMS) project on refactoring the existing DMS into new Angular 4/5 development environment. We mange. maintain and provide solutions to the old DMS and the newly developing environment.    Responsibilities: • Involved in the Upgrading the Angular Version from Angular 5 to Angular 7 and .Net Core Version 2.0 to 2.1.1 • Involved in the re-design and architecture of Designee Management System application using client technologies like Angular 4/5.  • Involved in development of forms for Application Process and Selection process in Angular 4/5.  • Working on a .Net DMS application with C#, Angular, LINQ, Web-API and SQL • Implemented the Select and Appoint feature for the applicants who filled the applications using the external module of the Designee Management System applications using MVC and Angular.  • Created a few tests cases for the applications • Involved in development of forms for Application Process and Selection process in Angular 4/5 • Used Bootstrap and Angular UI Bootstrap for creating rich, Responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes and devices • Created various Angular directives, controllers, DOM, expressions, templates, data binding, etc.  • Implemented the Select and Appoint feature for the applicants who filled the applications using the external module of the Designee Management System applications using Angular • Using Visual Studio Code, Angular 5, TypeScript and the Angular CLI for coding, scaffolding, data binding, debugging, compiling, bundling, minifying and building modules (i.e. components, services, pipes, directives, routes) • Implemented Angular promises to handle asynchronous communication with our Rest API for various requirements • Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines; Performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes • Implemented nested views and routing using Angular UI Router as per the requirement • Active contribute in Code Deployment, Tracing Errors, Defect Impact analysis, Merging and its Impact analysis for Parallel Releases, defect identification, timely documentation • Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues on all major browsers like IE, Firefox and Chrome • Attending the daily stand-ups as part of Agile and communicating assigned user story updates and discussing any issues with the team • Experience with Agile and test-driven development, continuous integration and version control via Bitbucket and SourceTree    Environment: C#, Asp.Net MVC 4, ASP.NET Web services, SQL Server 2016, .NET Framework 4.5, TypeScript, Angular 2,4,5,7, JSON, MVC, Bit Bucket, Jira, Source Tree, Agile Methodology Software Developer Global Automotive Partners Inc - Duncan, SC February 2018 to April 2018 Description: Global Automotive Partners (GAP GROUP) is a Privately-Owned Business and Provides Company Representation, Assembly, Logistics and Quality Service to OEM and Tier 1 Customers throughout the World. Currently working on the Truck Load Web Application for the client where users load the Trucks by scanning the Load Units and verify everything is loaded and scanned correctly before dispatching.  Responsibilities: • Design and developed web site (GUI) Screens using ASP.NET, C#, User controls, JavaScript and Data Controls.  • Developing N-Tier Application in .Net using 3 layers' approach. Presentation layer developed using ASP.Net, Business Layer developed using C#, and Data access layer developed using ADO.Net and Data layer implemented by stored procedures.  • Working on Web Application using ASP.NET and implemented form validation using Validation controls using both Custom validation and JavaScript was written for Client-side validations.  • Working on Truck Loading Web Application for the Client using C#, MVC5, SQL SERVER, ASP.NET.  • Excellent experience with C#, Visual Basic(VB.NET), ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Secure API experience in a technical applications development role, Entity Framework, HTML, CSS, Angular, IIS, and SQL Server Management Studio • Experience in working with Win Forms and Web Forms using HTML Controls, ASP.NET Server Controls and User Controls.  • Used HTML, CSS and JavaScript for client-side scripting.  • Used ADO.Net to access and modify data from SQL Server database.  • Involved in the Database design, wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, SQL Joins, database Views and T-SQL queries for the underlying SQL Server Database.    Environment: ASP.Net, Visual Studio 2015, C#, MVC, SSMS (2017), Visual Studio (2010, 2015), Web services, REST, SOAP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Angular JS, React-JS, XML, JSON, MVC, GitHub, Source-Tree, Google Cloud Platform, Bit Bucket, Atlassian Jira. IT Programmer Bon Worth - Hendersonville, NC June 2017 to February 2018 Description: Bon Worth is an American retail clothing chain based in Hendersonville, North Carolina. We have In-Store and Online stores working on POS applications and Web application. We deal with various databases, registers, POS and Bon Worth online website. Online website deals with collections (Bon Worth Products), cart, managing orders, payments and shipments. I am working mainly on developing and enhancing POS Application used by Bon worth stores.    Responsibilities: • Using Agile environment and managed code between the team using Atlassian Jira • Automated the Manual Applications which are used in the Company POS Application, such that users can now fill the details online.  • Created a Component to compare the inventory shared with the end user.  • Created a folder watcher service to process the excel file data into Sql server.  • Developing N-Tier Application in .Net using 3 layers' approach. Presentation layer developed using ASP.Net, Business Layer developed using C#, and Data access layer developed using ADO.Net and Data layer implemented by stored procedures • Developing applications in .Net with MVC patterns and Web Forms • Designed the web pages using ASP.NET, HTML, Angular.js, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, XML and CSS.  • Using SQL and SSMS for maintaining and managing databases • Involved in the Database design, wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, SQL Joins, database Views and T-SQL queries for the underlying SQL Server Database.  • Developed Restful Services using Web API core and writing interoperable and reusable services using WCF and Web API.  • Configuring web.config file, giving Data connections in Server Explorer and pulling tables.  • Understanding of HTTP and experience building RESTful API s for Web Services • Creating user authentication page which involves Password Encryption and Automatic Password generation, Forget Password, Change Password • Used Dataset, Data Table, Data Adapter, Data Reader and other ADO.Net connectivity controls and worked with Entity frame work • Pushing the code into Bit Bucket repository and committing to Source Tree GIT • Performing End-to-End testing of the application, Bug Fixing, Deploying the code and Publishing the application • Currently working on One Page Checkout using Vb.Net, SQL and Web Forms    Environment: ASP.Net, ADO.Net, C#, VB.NET, MVC, SSMS (2010, 2014, 2017), Visual Studio (2010, 2015, 2017), AJAX, JavaScript, Web services, REST, SOAP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Angular JS, XML, JSON, Git, Bit Bucket, Atlassian Jira, Source Tree. Software Developer Thales - Melbourne, FL April 2016 to May 2017 Description:  Thales Inflight Experience products offer end-to-end solutions that support our customers before, during and after the flight. Thales supplies in-flight entertainment and connectivity experiences to more than 60 airlines around the globe and as a trusted airline partner is committed to building its position as an industry leader. Global Connectivity Management System (GCMS) is the centralized database for maintaining different aircrafts data. Many business applications built on GCMS for monitoring Flights performance, business growth, service transaction and payment details. Console and Web applications are used for moving the data to reporting database and various reports will be generated from that for analyzing business process activities.    Responsibilities: • Design and developed web site (GUI) Screens using ASP.NET, C#, User controls, JavaScript and Data Controls.  • Created Web Forms using ASP.NET and implemented form validation using Validation controls using both Custom validation and JavaScript was written for Client-side validations.  • Used validation techniques for User Input Validations.  • Created Role Based security levels for Windows Forms Authorization.  • Developed generic Data Access Layer for data access and manipulation on the SQL Server using C# and extensive use of ADO.NET • Created and managed new database objects including tables, indexes, triggers, User-defined functions.  • Used Web Services, Windows Presentation Foundation (WCF) for accessing data from the web server.  • Used HTML, CSS and JavaScript for client-side scripting.  • Used ADO.Net to access and modify data from SQL Server database.  • Prepared Test cases provided technical documentation • Committed code to Bit Bucket and used GIT- Source Tree • Involved in Deployment and Go-Live    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, VB .NET, SQL Server, Source Tree, Bit Bucket, HTML, CSS, JavaScript .Net Developer-SQL Genpact - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to April 2015 India    Description: Genpact's Analytics and Research division is a pioneer in analytics solutions that deliver significant business impact to clients across world. We work with leading organizations in retail, healthcare, technology, banking and financial services. I worked in a team and involved in coding, developing, working on research reports, data analysis and Integration testing. My project included database creation, updating, extraction of data, data analysis, working on code and report generation.  Responsibilities: • Involved in requirement gathering, business process analysis, solution designing and documentation • Interface with internal clients and managers to gather requirements • Develop process design to meet business needs • Analyze and interpret specifications • Develop web-based applications, including user interface functionality • Create Reports using Microsoft SQL Server 2008 • Interact with different Departments to meet business requirements • Using C# and ASP.Net for web development • Have developed and maintained T-SQL Stored Procedures, Data Models with Primary Keys and Unique Keys according to the business requirements.  • Identified and defined the datasets for the report generation.  • Developed complex Stored Procedures and views to generate various reports using slicers and line graphs.  • Created Business Requirement Document based on the needs of the end users after one on one interviews and project meetings.  • Hosted several meetings with end users to create user stories and BRD • Ability to communicate with Supervisors, Executives, BA's, DBA's, Developers    Environment: ASP.Net, Visual Studio 2012, Microsoft SQL, Windows XP, Excel (Pivot  Tables, Macros), Power-Point, Outlook, Access, Word. Education Master of Science in Information Technology in User Interface, Data Mining, Information Management Valparaiso University - Valparaiso, IN May 2015 to December 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and communication Engineering in Electronics, VLSI, Embedded Systems JNTU Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2010 to May 2014 Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, MVC, WPF, WCF, Angular, ASP, Jquery