Office Administrator Office Administrator Office Administrator - JEI Learning Cary, NC Currently working and seeking full-time/part-time opportunities in office administration with previous experience of working as a Software Engineer, designer, programmer and web developer in IT for more than 6 years with good communication skills. From Oct 2003 to Jan 2017 took a professional break and worked as a full-time parent of two children while managing household finances, scheduling, transportation, and travel arrangements. Work Experience Office Administrator JEI Learning - Cary, NC February 2017 to Present Working as morning Office Administrator, responsible for managing daily folders and all activities for all Students and Teacher. The daily duties include:  • Maintaining stock of books.  • Responding to teacher's comments and coordinating with Center Director and or parents and other staff as needed.  • Preparing Students daily folders, books and ensuring follow-up activities such as scheduling re-attempt of test or book(s).  • Respond to Parents questions and new inquiries on telephone and in-person.  • Setup appointments for diagnostic test for new students.  • Update on-line system with Student's progress on a regular basis and identify next steps as per prescribed curriculum. Software Engineer IBM - Raleigh, NC February 2001 to September 2003 IBM CRM is world's largest implementation of Siebel, which involves customization, configuring and upgrading to various Siebel releases like Siebel 5.x/6.x/7.x and involved Siebel Call Center, Field Sales,  Marketing, eChannel and eService modules, with EAI and EIM to various different external applications around various geographic locations.  • Design and Developed various customer requirements in Siebel Tools to configuration of new interfaces  and upgrading from Siebel 6.0.3 to 7.0.4.    • Developed EAI interface using XML, MQ and Custom Java adapter to support Product Catalog and Parts  Warranty.    • Prepared documentation, training material and provided production support. Siebel Developer Nike - Portland, OR September 2000 to January 2001 Java Developer Venus Technologies India Pvt. Ltd - New Delhi, Delhi March 1999 to August 2000 India  This Project dealt with the development of Inventory Control System. It was a 3-tier application which included a front end Java application, a Java middleware server, and the backend with an Oracle server.  • Developed Java interface for front-end to update their databases to the registered services along with initiating and delivery of goods to the consumers using Oracle based back-end system.  • Developed front-end and back-end of web applications using Applets and Servlets. Nike 2000 to 2000 implementation customized and configured its Supply Chain Management  involving accounts, products, contacts and various other Siebel objects.  • Performed data migration using Siebel native EIM technology and SQL Scripts for Product Catalog and Customer Contact Information.    • Designed and Developed various functional requirements to enhance Siebel User Interface to support the Business needs.    • Created user training documents and provided testing support. Oracle Developer Kausar India Pvt. Ltd - New Delhi, Delhi November 1997 to February 1999 India  Kausar India Limited has a huge fleet of trucks, which are used for transportation of perishable goods throughout India. This project dealt with managing fleet of trucks using Client-Server Oracle application.  • Developed Front-End using Oracle Forms 4.5, Reports 2.5, Graphics 2.5 and Oracle 7.x as back-end-database.  • Designed and Developed a graphic module with Graphics 2.5 which incorporated stand-alone graphs and graphs embedded in forms giving drill-down result including the map of India depicting various sectors  on which the truck runs and clicking on a sector to get details of trucks on those sectors. Education Bachelors of Arts in English Literature Delhi University - Delhi, Delhi 1996 Skills Db2, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, C++, Enterprise application, Javascript, Perl, Crm, Siebel, Java, Unix, Ms office, Cgi Additional Information SKILLS  Programming Languages: Java/JavaScript, SQL, CRM Tools: Siebel Enterprise Application  PL-SQL, CGI-PERL, C++ Operating Systems: Windows, Unix, DOS  Databases: SQL Server, Oracle, DB2, MS-Access Office Suite: MS Office, Open Office