Nielsen / Principal Architect Nielsen / Principal Architect New Port Richey, FL Leader with a passion for building great products while enabling others to perform their roles more effectively. Architected and built scalable web-based front ends with modern, highly interactive UIs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Nielsen / Principal Architect Nielsen - Oldsmar, FL 2018 to Present Oversee all new and existing Web Properties at Nielsen. Manage and lead a strong and talented development team in a full migration of our main web property (1 million hits a  month) from an aging CMS, Adobe CQ, to industry standard CMS, WordPress. Utilize the latest technologies and spearhead a new framework from WordPress (Gutenberg). Bring  Nielsen to the forefront in technology and industry standards while guiding and mobilizing the development team. Principal Software Developer Nielsen - Oldsmar, FL 2016 to 2018 Lead Developer for all Nielsen Web Properties. Oversaw the development and design for several products, both public and internal. Specialized in DevOps for our entire web  presence. Contributed and implemented standards for mobile applications throughout the company. Was the licensee and distributor for all Apple, Amazon, and Android  applications. Senior Software Developer Nielsen - Oldsmar, FL 2013 to 2016 Built and designed public facing Web Applications; external, public facing websites; and campaigns. Audited older technology used in the company, and created guidelines for  newer technology and best practices. Stood up server environments, and architected  web-based scaling for ever-demanding use cases. Built, designed, and maintained flagship  mobile apps for the Company. Software Developer Nielsen - Oldsmar, FL 2012 to 2013 Conceived, managed, and built internal web applications that have now become a staple in the Company's work environment. Created external, public facing websites and campaigns, and built and designed mobile apps for the Company. Flash Developer and Designer SOE Software - Tampa, FL 2010 to 2011 Designed and developed interactive Flash-based training games for Voting Districts across the United States. Designed and built websites for county election offices across the U.S.  Built 3D interactive models of voting machines. Produced motion graphics and video for online training, and onsite filming.  ? Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Media Arts and Animation Art Institute - Tampa, FL 2006 to 2010 Skills MONGODB, LINUX, PYTHON, MYSQL, FRONT END, SQL, HTML, XML, Jquery, Javascript Awards Tampa Bay Emerging Tech Leader 2019 https://etltampabay.com/adrian-chrysanthou-nielsen/