Senior Consultant Senior Consultant Senior Consultant - Templar Shield Arlington, VA Work Experience Senior Consultant Templar Shield - Washington, DC April 2019 to Present Cybersecurity    • Currently working on a project with the House of Representatives CAO and my responsibilities are to drive planning, preparation, and implementation of customer engagements  • Provide daily project management of RSA Archer engagements and extensive work with Enterprise Management, Third Party, BCM/DR, Incident Response, Policy, POA&M Management and Assessment & Authorization solutions within RSA Archer  • Responsible for developing detailed GRC Strategy roadmaps to address client strategic objectives, project plans, business requirements documents, and other relevant supporting documentation throughout engagement  • Lead kick off meetings and requirements gathering sessions for each engagement, weekly status meetings, and walkthrough meetings for business users during product testing and go live support  • Oversee and assign daily configuration tasks for consultants, and ensure project milestones are met on time  • Created and deployed both general RSA Archer Administrator and targeted end user training material Senior Software Engineer Capital One - McLean, VA July 2018 to April 2019 Cyber Technology    • Performing all management responsibilities for Archer platform (Team; Compliance; Audits).  • Relationship manager to vendor (contract Management; security assessments; defect closure).  • Administering the Archer Windows-based servers & databases hosted on Cloud (AWS).  • Maintaining/enhancing over 100 on-demand applications spanning 20+ solutions. Performed over 300 customer enhancements.  • In-depth knowledge of all aspects of Archer including: Application Development; Calculations; Notifications; Advanced Workflow, Web Services API; Data Feed Manager; LDAP; IIS; SSO; Reporting; Workspaces and Access Management. Software Engineer American Express - New York, NY May 2016 to July 2018 Global Banking, Compliance & Remittance Technology    • Worked with the Internal Audit Group and lead the development for creating On Demand Applications to implement new solutions on RSA Archer enterprise (eGRC) as System Administrator.  • Gained expertise in configuration & development of business functionalities with Archer.  • Got experience with deploying packages within Archer.  • Built Data Driven Events, Access Controls, Record Permissions, Actions, Notifications, Questionnaires, Calculated Fields, Levelled Applications, Reports, iViews & Advanced Workflow. Software Engineer Intern American Express - Phoenix, AZ May 2015 to August 2015 Global Corporate Payment Technologies    • Coordinated with the Compliance team to transfer paper-based policies into RSA Archer by working on a vendor solution and creating a Policy Management solution and various On Demand Applications.  • Analyzed logs from the Amex @Work website and identified key information by writing SQL queries.  • Developed a dashboard using a tool called Splunk tool to improve user experience for corporate card members. Software Engineer Intern AT&T - Hoffman Estates, IL May 2014 to August 2014 Technology Development Program - Emerging Technologies    • Programmed a simulator to provision requests from PPBE (Provisioning Portal Back End) and get responses back from AME (API Management Engine) to speed up the process.  • Fundamental exposure to emerging technologies - Agile, cloud computing, API, Big data, Mobile First. Participated in nationwide AT&T Hackathon. Software Engineer Intern CareerBuilder, LLC - Chicago, IL May 2013 to August 2013 Product Development Team    • Developed a program using Ruby on Rails that filtered out junk resumes out of the system. This helped speed up the resume reviewing process by reducing 15% of the total volume of resumes coming into the database  • Marketed Betterjobs.com, a new job site started under the umbrella of Careerbuilder.com Software Developer University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI September 2012 to May 2013 Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program    • Developed a therapeutical video game using Python and GameMaker that helped in detecting specific symptoms in children with autism such as deficits in motor coordination and repetitive movements.  • Also worked on developing another video game that helped students learn basic Portuguese    COURSEWORK    ? RSA Archer Administration I Course  ? RSA Archer Administration II Course  ? EECS 388 (Intro to Computer Security)  ? EECS 493 (User Interface Development)  ? ECS 485 (Web Databases & Info Systems)  ? EECS 481 ( Software Engineering)  ? EECS 441 (Mobile App Development)  ? EECS 281 (Data Structures & Algorithms)  ? SI 301 (Networks)  ? SI 364 (Building Interactive Applications) Education B.S.E. in Computer Science College of Engineering April 2016 University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI Skills C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Json, Php, Python, Swift, Css, Splunk, Sql, Gamemaker, Java, jquery, Linux, Matlab, Aws certified Links http://@Work Additional Information SKILLS    Certified Archer Administrator, Certified Scrum Master, AWS Certified, C++, SQL, Python, Java, GameMaker, Matlab, HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, Linux, jQuery, JSON, SoapUI, Git, Splunk, Swift.