Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Austin, TX 5 Years experience in Testing ,Maintenance and Developing Mainframe based applications.I am a quick learner and willing to learn and work in other technologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer ASG technologies August 2017 to August 2018 • Technical support and problem determination of field reported defects.  • Requirement capture, design and code development  • Involved in debugging the application.  • Developed a REXX based automated debugging tool which provides a dump analysis report.  • Troubleshooting system dumps using IPCS.  • Unit testing, regression testing and component testing was done to ensure that the enhanced features work as expected.  • Also, involved in various phases of SDLC such as Requirements and Analysis, Test Scenario Identification, Test Case preparation and Execution & Defect Reporting.  • Conducted various High level Assembler Training for colleagues. Associate Cognizant Technology Solutions - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2016 to August 2017 Client as part of their business objective has embarked on an attempt to re-mediate Ideal/Assembler to COBOL and Data-com database to DB2 .    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in the design phase of target Architecture for the migration.  • Co-ordination with onshore business partners to get requirement.  • Effect/Cost estimates.  • Preparing Impact Analysis document.  • Requirements capture, design and code development.  • Code and Test results review.  • Unit Testing in test environments. Project Engineer Wipro - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2013 to July 2016 Fujitsu is the leading Mainframe manufacturer and service provider in Japan. Fujitsu has proprietary Mainframe products running on Fujitsu manufacturers mainframe servers and are compatible with IBM machines as well.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding of various mainframe based products , creating design and functional documents which includes High level Assembler Codes.  • Providing support for Fujitsu proprietary products that runs on Z/OS and MSP.  • Taken care of fixing the identified problems in the various products, end to end testing, packaging and release process.  • Worked on other subsystems like APS(Printing subsystem) and utilities.  • Applying patches through SMP/E.  • Maintaining VMs and volumes  • Preparation of Bug and Fix report and Impact analysis.  • Preparation of test plan, effort estimation and reviewing with client.    • Unit Testing in test environments.  • JCL and Job preparation for Testing.  • Performance study on the customer system and providing enhancement or improvement solutions. Education Bachelor's in BIONFORMATICS sastra university - Austin, TX Skills Assembler (5 years), COBOL (2 years), CICS (2 years), Db2 (2 years), VSAM (2 years), Mainframe (5 years), Maintenance (3 years), MYSQL