Software QA tech <span class="hl">Software</span> QA tech Software QA tech - Apple Inc Fremont, CA • Master of Computer Application with 5+ years of software testing and development experience  • Strong knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies such as Agile SCRUM and Waterfall models across various projects.  • Experience in analyzing business requirements, use case documents and developing test strategy, test plan, and test case documents accordingly.  • Experience in developing detailed design level test scenarios and individual test events and scripts based on multiple user groups and detailed user interface design requirements.  • Experience in conducting Root Cause Analysis for defects, implementing strategies to eliminate future occurrences of similar defects and moving quality upstream in the SDLC.  • Ability to provide inputs in developing quality assurance standards in regards to manual, automation and performance testing.  • Developed Automated Test Script and Test Automation Frameworks using Selenium Webdriver with Java.  • Experience in working with Linux and python scripts.  • Ability to manage time and priorities according to team/project objectives in a Fast-Paced environment.  • Attention to detail and precision, solid work ethics concerning production deadlines and reliability.  • Extensive experience in preparing documentation on Test Status Reports, Test Summary Reports, and Defect Tracking Report.  • Excellent interpersonal, strong analytical, problem solving and decision-making skills.  • US Employment authorized Work Experience Software QA tech Apple Inc June 2018 to Present • UI, web service API, functional/performance/load testing.  • Work with the QA team in developing a QA testing strategy for the project,  • Determining the appropriate balance of manual and automated tests.  • Create test plan and test suite for manual testing.  • Write and update python scripts to automate tests.  • Perform thorough regression testing when bugs are resolved  • Responsible for project release in bi-weekly sprints. Apple Inc - Sunnyvale, CA February 2018 to April 2018 • Performed grey box and black box testing across MacOS, iOS and Android devices on various browsers.  • Performed functional, exploratory, UX/UI, sanity, regression testing across different browsers for cross browser compatibility.  • Testing DM in different email providers.  • Used automated tools to perform testing of image/video assets and verify code changes.  • Worked with VoiceOver in Mac for accessibility testing. QA tester Walmart eCommerce - Sunnyvale, CA August 2017 to January 2018 Part of prestigious IoT project of Walmart-Google integration to personalize voice shopping through Google Home and Google Assistant App.  (Google Home is a hands-free smart speaker with a built-in AI called Google Assistant.)    • Focus on Functional, Usability, Smoke, Regression, E2E testing, Postman Rest Client calls to verify Json, XML.  • Involved in testing Google Home Apps for Android and iOS mobile devices.  • Collected and analyzed large amount of data, generated various reports as per management requirement for better decision making  • Automating the process of testing and generating various reports using Selenium WebDriver with java.  • Experience with clouding testing using SauceLabs to perform cross browser and parallel testing of web sites  • Wrote python scripts to automate grey box testing process and send alerts through mail based on the reports generated on daily basis  • Root cause analysis of order cancellations  • Performed regression testing of multiple APIs after new features added to the existing system.  • Participated in various demos at offsite locations to promote the Walmart and the product. Software QA Consultant ONX - Santa Clara, CA September 2016 to July 2017 • Manual and automated testing of various projects under test  • Front end web testing using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience with different rendering engines for Cross browser testing.  • Designed and developed test scenarios for automation test scripts using TestNG, Maven and Selenium Webdriver frameworks with Java and IntelliJ IDEA  • Optimize test execution speed using combination of implicit wait and explicit wait methods  • Constructed relative Xpath for dynamic web elements  • Applied data providers concepts to test for performing data driven testing  • Used log4j2 for creating logs while test execution  • Implemented assertions for verifying results of the test scripts  • Worked with XML file to provide order of execution of tests in single and multiple classes  • Performed mobile testing of various apps on Android devices using real devices and creating emulators. Software Developer i-engineering Inc - Ahmedabad, Gujarat September 2005 to June 2006 India  • Design, develop and test UI for user authentication and data rendering using Core Java on Windows  • Supporting team for development and testing of other UI modules Software Developer Pangaea Technology Pvt. Ltd - Surat, Gujarat December 2003 to December 2004 India  • Design, develop and test UI interface for Words/Associations application using Java, Advanced Java on Windows and Macintosh  • Involved in analysis, designing, coding, testing, debugging and performance tuning. In detail, database structure designing. Integrating the work of other colleagues in to the main application.  • Designed and coding of server application and servlets. Lecturer Veer Narmad South Gujarat University - Surat, Gujarat August 2002 to December 2003 India  • Taught Visual Basic, Data structures, Microsoft office, Accounting etc. Software Developer Digital Dreams Infotech - Surat, Gujarat January 2003 to November 2003 India  • Designed and developed front end for Hotel management software in Visual Basic 6. Software Development Intern Larsen & Toubro, Hazira - Surat, Gujarat January 2002 to July 2002 India  • Involved in analysis, designing, coding, testing, debugging in detail, ER Diagram, database structure, study of designing of the form to be read by OCR software (ReadIris), making of the dictionary for the OCR software. Education Masters of Computer Science Application in Computer Science Application Veer Narmad South Gujarat University - Surat, Gujarat 2002 Bachelor of Commerce in Commerce S.P. College of Commerce - Surat, Gujarat 1998 Skills BUGZILLA, JIRA, JUNIT, SELENIUM, SELENIUM WEBDRIVER, Java, Python, QA, Quality Assurance, Automate