Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> ? 6.5 years of experience working on Mobile Application Development.  ? Understanding of Object Oriented Programming Application Development.  ? Strong knowledge and experience in Android(Phone, Tablet, TV), SQLite Database, APIs,  Client-Server Interactions, Location Based Applications and Social Integration.  ? Experience in developing projects on Agile methodologies Work Experience Sr. Software Developer December 2015 to Present Sr. Software Developer Telemune Software Solution Pvt Ltd August 2014 to December 2015 Software Developer Red Pyramid Infosystems Pvt Ltd April 2013 to August 2014 Software Developer Wirefoot India Technology Pvt Ltd July 2012 to April 2013 Education Senior Secondary May 2006 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Components Skills    Mobile Based Services Google Map, Calling Web Services - Soap and Rest, Parsing - JSON, XML, PIM, GPS, Camera,  Push Notification.  Application Architecture MVC, MVP, MVVM, VIPER, Live Data    Third Party Gson, Glide, VLC Media player Integration, jxl, Socket.io, Retrofit, java-mail, Facebook, Linkedin,  Google+, Yammer and Twitter Integration, Firebase push notification, OpenTok.    Database SQLite, Firebase Database  Versioning Git(Github, Gitlab), Svn, Bitbucket  Build Tool Gradle  CONTRIBUTIONS:    Contribution Key Highlights  Blogs ? Android Permission System and Case Study  ? Gradle Android Studio    PROJECTS HIGHLIGHTS:    Fire TV Application - Tata Sky    About Client An India based market leader provides DTH  Product Overview TataSky OTT app that help consumers to stream live TV channels and watch videos on demand  via mobile, web platforms and now on Amazon Fire TV.  Technology/ Tools Java, Kotlin, Data Binding, Live Data, Mixpanel  Projects Highlights ? Ensured OTP based multi-factor authentication, profile setup & management  ? Enhanced live video streaming capability. The VOD section covered TV Shows, Web  shorts and Movies  Roles Research and Development  Responsibilities ? Improve product quality and health.  ? Implement new features and handle change request.  ? Handle project delivery tasks.  ? Help other developers in development    E-Commerce Jwellary App- Shop TJC and LC    About Client Retailer of fashion jewellery and lifestyle products in the USA and United Kingdom  Product Overview VGL offers high-quality and low cost jewelry, skincare products, cosmetics, accessories, home  décor, and more. Now Introducing Augmented Reality with the virtual "TRY ON" feature to try the  jewellery before you buy.  Technology/ Tools Face Recognition, Mobile Vision, FFMPEG  Projects Highlights ? Use the virtual " TRY ON" feature, to try the jewellery on before you buy  ? Online Auctions  ? Watch TJC and LC TV live on your app  Roles Research and Development  Responsibilities ? Improve product quality and health.  ? Implement new features and handle change request.  ? Handle project delivery tasks.  ? Develope TryOn feature  Availability https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.vgl.mobile.thejewelrychannel  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.vgl.mobile.liquidationchannel&hl=en_IN  Mobile TV Application - jadoo TV    About Client A US Based Client. Worked on video streaming application  Product Overview Application used to stream video through mobile and smart tv. Application contains different  section like Live channel, Movies, VOD(video on demand). User can mark items as favorite. User  can also watch there recently played items.  Technology/ Tools Java, Android SDK, Data Binding  Projects Highlights ? A user can watch Live channels anytime anywhere.  ? A user can watch latest movies and Videos on demand.  ? A user can mark playable items as favourite and watch recently played list.  Roles Developer  Responsibilities ? Data parsing and layouts design implementation.  ? Improve product quality and health.  ? Implement new features and handle change request.  ? Handle project delivery tasks.  Availability https://jadootv.com/jadoogo/    Professional Network Application- Business Friend    About Client A US Based Client, That is trying to increase its professional network.  Product Overview The app makes it easier to connect to the people and things that matter in your professional  world. Build and nurture your professional network, stay up to date with the latest business  and industry news. Chat and call to your professional connection. Upload images, documents  and notes to cloud and share them with connections.  Technology/ Tools Java, Android SDK, Socket.io, talkbox, Push Notifications  Projects Highlights ? A user can chat with his connection in group.  ? A user can call to its connections via application calling feature.  ? Upload and share images, documents and notes to cloud.  Roles Developer  Responsibilities ? Data parsing and layouts design implementation.  ? Improve product quality and health.  ? Implement new features and handle change request.  ? Handle project delivery tasks.  Availability https://itunes.apple.com/in/app/businessfriend-social-network/id1001870442?mt=8    Music Streaming Application - MOD Smart    About Client An Africa based client that provides telecom services in different areas of Africa and other  countries.  Product Overview A user can listen latest songs and music anywhere anytime. Also user can save music or  song as Offline, So that it can be listened when user do not have internet connectivity. User  can also listen ringtones and save them to use for their smartphones default ringtone.  Technology/ Tools Java, Android SDK, VLC Integration, Push Notifications  Projects Highlights ? Basically application is based on RTSP to stream mp3 music file.  ? To make android supported with mp3 music file over RTSP, We had integrated VLC  media player.  ? Application also support android old versions devices.  Roles Senior Developer  Responsibilities ? Lead the overall development and design of mobile application.  ? Developed application architecture to handle online/offline data.  ? Data parsing and layouts design implementation.  ? Designed the basic architecture of the application    Client's Revenue Management - Telemune Dashboard    About Client A Indian Client that provides software services like Value Added Services to Telecom  Operators in various countries.  Product Overview The basic need of application is to manage and analyze client's account in smartphones. A  user can see and analyze revenue data of their clients anywhere anytime. If there is no  internet connectivity than user is able to see and analyze offline data.  Technology/ Tools Java, Android SDK, Jxl, java-mail  Projects Highlights ? Application first authenticate user then read revenu email from its email account.  ? Get revenue excel sheets parse them and store data in local database of smartphone.  ? Excel parsing in smartphone is slow based on number of files to parse and size of file.  Roles Senior Developer  Responsibilities ? Lead the overall development and design of mobile application.  ? Developed application architecture to handle online/offline data.  ? Data parsing and layouts design implementation.  ? Designed the basic architecture of the application  Availability https://apkpure.com/telemune-dashboard/com.telemune.telemunedashboard    Other Projects    ? Restaurant Management System ? Leave Approval System  ? FrackAppzStudio ? Eva Cab  ? Staff Directory ? Yacht Card  ? Automobile Service App ? Meal Deal  ? Stock Inventory System ? ViniPost  ? Selfcare App ? Newton CRM