Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - TD Ameritrade Staten Island, NY Experiences in agile and XP development, proactive planning and meeting de-  liverables, a team player to communicate status and progression through JIRA /  Trello. Six years core 1.8 Java and experiences on Tomcat and Apache HTTP  server. Self-motivated to read and study design patterns, frameworks and new  technologies at leisure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer TD Ameritrade October 2018 to Present Advanced Risk Management Project: Monitoring accounts and identifying risks by implementing business logics and also alerting business users on either 1. Statis-  tics of historic market movements that an account could potentially lose money. 2.  An order the customer placed that increases the account risks and needs extra  attention.    • Grid Application: work on various areas of the main application, including  caching (Oracle Coherence), calling invoke process and configuration. REST  endpoint to trigger processing on main grid application via coherence and JMX connection.  • Grid Application Environment Config: update and add configuration proper- ties and deployed to a linux environment  • BDD Framework: Wrote adapter codes that bridge Cucumber framework and Spring extension to grid application's tests  • Batch Job 1: Spring Batch application that exports data to a csv files for other  teams  • Batch Job 2: wrote a simple application to extract timely sensitive information  from another database vendor and insert into our database. The application  is then set up to run on a fixed interval using our Enterprise Scheduling Soft- ware. Also added a database trigger to match existing records from another  table, otherwise the insertion should be ignored.  • Consuming Data: implemented logic in main application utilize the data from the batch job 2. The main application needs to maintain a cache for perfor-  mance purpose but then schedule a reload at a fixed interval to update the cache. The business logic should not be impacted during cache reloading. Software Developer Brainfuse Inc June 2015 to October 2018 Adding new features to our services, for customers, our internal admins, and some  for enhancement and improvements of the legacy solutions. Implementing so- lutions based on team leader's design and choose applicable design pattern for the task. There are projects that required to work with external resources, LMS  systems including (Canvas, Blackboard and D2L), with the incorporation different  authentication method as needed into the solution.    06/15 - 10/18 Software Developer, Brainfuse Inc. continue    • Built our proprietary voice calling module using Java, Servlet and Jersey  client with a commercial service library.  • JavaServer Faces 2.1 with iceface/primeface for features to be used by ad- mins.    • JSP with legacy struts 1 for new feature or enhancement on existing struc- ture.  • REST service for our mobile app using Restx(library) and Servlet 3.0.  • Batch job to access API Resource (JSON or XML) using a commercial  scheduling product, Apache HC and Jersey Client  • Collaborate with QA team and bug fixes Software Engineer Macy's Merchandising Group September 2013 to March 2015 PLM Project: working with consultants to add features or enhancements on PLM  software following a monthly sprint Agile  • Implemented logics to retrieve business fields stored in database and display  on the UI using propiretary framework Software Developer May 2013 to September 2013 LocalEdge  Migration Project: Migrating products to a new server environment following bi- weekly sprint.  • Extracted server properties to external files so that servers are executed with- out passing flags    • Updateed applications to use logback and slf4j logging framework and config  logging Education Bachelor in Computer Engineering Technology in Computer Engineering Technology New York City College of Technology 2012 Skills JAVA, JAVASCRIPT, TYPESCRIPT, JDBC, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, SQL, REST, SAML Links https://linkedin.com/in/jia-lu