Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Norfolk, VA • 7 years of experience as a Full-Stack Developer with a strong understanding in every aspect of SDLC.  • Expertise in designing and developing object oriented 3 tier applications using J2EE.  • Analysis, Design and Development in diversified areas of Client-Server, Distributed and Web applications using Java, J2EE technologies.  • Expertise in scripting dialects on both client and server side with proficiency in implementing RESTful web services, SOA, Unit and Integration testing.  • Strong understanding of the Spring MVC and Hibernate frameworks and the internals of the architecture like JMS.  • Hands on experience with customizing online template and use it in the project (frontend UI).  • Developed front-end web pages using JSP, Java Script, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Extensive experience with Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring Data JPA, Spring AOP, spring, Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring Integration and Hibernate ORM.  • Extensively worked on Responsive layout.  • Profound knowledge of Continuous Development and Continuous Integration using Maven, Jenkins and Git Stash.  • 1 year of hands on experience in Amazon Web Services including IAM, S3, SES, SNS, EC2, VPC, Lambda, RDS and Cloud Watch.  • Expertise in back-end/server-side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java Messaging Service (JMS), Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI).  • Experience in XML related technologies like XSL, XSD, XPATH, DTD, and XML Schemas, XML Parsers like DOM & SAX.  • Experience on Web Technologies using HTML4/5, CSS2/CSS3, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSF, AngularJS, React JS, XML and JSON  • Experience with Object Oriented programming languages Java, J2EE with Restful Web Services development  • Expertise in scripting dialects on both client and server side with proficiency in implementing RESTful web services, Unit and Integration testing.  • Developed web applications using LAMP, Java, Node.js, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax  • Performed analysis and data visualizations using D3.js, Google charts, Vega Lite, R, Tableau, OpenRefine, Data Wrangler  • Experience in developing applications using Object-Oriented Concepts (OOD) and Design patterns.  • Analysis of SQL queries and optimizing performance through indexing, modifying table design.  • Extensive interest for software development, quick learner with excellent problem solving skills.  • Ability to handle multiple tasks concurrently and meet the deadlines Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer Dominion Enterprises - Norfolk, VA February 2019 to June 2019 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed backend services and implemented Email functionality for the applications for a two-way communication between the Clients and the prospects Which improved the lead generation by 30% - (Java,RESTful Web Services, Maven, Node.js, Jenkins, AWS, SES, SNS, S3, Lambda, MySQL, Postman REST Client)  ? The Application Recorded Incoming Emails from the users through SES via S3 bucket. Email operations were performed using Java based AWS SDK.  ? Email content is parsed using Node.js via Lambda function (A script written to trigger the response to the API endpoint) for every inbound Email.  ? Developed the features to track the Bounced, Delivered and Opened mails which helped in email validation  ? Designed the validation logics using Neustar APIs to derive the validity of email address and phone numbers based on the E mail and Phone scores.  ? Developed client/server and N-tier web applications using Java, J2EE, Apache Struts framework and spring (MVC) framework.  ? Designed and developed UI pages with HTML5, AJAX, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, JQuery, CSS and JavaScript, AngularJS, Node-JS, JSP, JSON and Tag libraries.  ? Used Spring Data, JPA and Hibernate to create light weight web and app integration layer.  ? Used Spring integration for integrating the application with Micro services using spring integration workflow files.  ? Used Postman to test the REST Services.  ? Consumed REST based Micro services with Rest template based on Restful APIs.  ? Created Spring MVC - REST based JSON Services, used Rest Template for making a client call to JAX-RS web services with JERSEY implementation.  ? Amazon EC2 is also used for deploying and testing the lower environments such as Dev and Test.  ? Used GIT and SVN for source control and Jenkins for continuous integrations.  ? Worked with AWS cloud service in creating EC2 instances and providing them roles and sometimes participated in writing custom policies and deployed applications on Elastic Bean Stalk and EC2.  ? Setup databases on Amazon RDS or EC2 as per requirement.  ? Create and Managing buckets on S3 and store DB and logs backup  ? Responsible to fetch and process the data to make statistical analysis between the leads generated and businesses.  ? Design and develop Visualization solutions - (Tableau, D3.js)  ? Develop and maintain databases for projects and  ? Responsible for bug fixes and maintenance of the application logic  ? Project management is performed using Jira and version control - (Bit-Bucket, Git)  ? Agile and Scrum methodology was adopted for the application life cycle.    Environment: Java, RESTful Web Services, Maven, Node.js, Jenkins, AWS, SES, SNS, S3, Lambda, MySQL, Postman REST Client Software Developer Bank of Newyork Mellon - King of Prussia, PA September 2018 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  ? Developed backend services and Restful web services to make API calls to the third party resource providers for the banking application - (Java, J2EE, RESTful Web Services, Maven, Log4j, Unirest, SOAPUI, Postman REST Client, OAuth 2.0)  ? Responsible for bug fixes and maintenance of the application logic  ? Troubleshoot various software issues using debugging process and coding techniques.  ? Used commons and log4j logging framework  ? Extensively used Postman Rest API Client to test the web services.  ? Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions and cache concepts.  ? Used Spring MVC Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.  ? Developed Restful service interface using Spring Boot to the underlying Agent Services API and Implemented Restful web services.  ? Used Spring Boot which removes boilerplate configuration and makes application faster.  ? Worked with the Node package manager (NPM) along with Grunt.  ? Experienced in working with Babel and Web pack in application build and deployment processes.  ? Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon Web Services focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  ? Installed the application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.  ? Developed some standalone Micro services using Spring Boot micro service architectural patterns  ? Project management is performed using Jira and version control using Git  ? Agile and Scrum methodology was adopted for the application life cycle.    Environment: Java, J2EE, RESTful Web Services, Maven, Log4j, Unirest, SOAPUI, Postman REST Client, OAuth 2.0 Web Developer (Graduate Assistant) ODU - Norfolk, VA August 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed a system called Appointment Generator web application for the use by ODU CS department serves as a platform to manage entire process involved in appointing students as Graduate Assistants also provides some statistical insights into these appointments - (PHP, Laravel, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, MySQL, AWS)  ? Enhanced a project named TimeMap Summarization for visualizing the changes in webpage over time - (Node.js, ExpressJS, RESTful, D3.js, Bootstrap)  ? Developed backend services and integrated Paypal to "Bidkraft- Bid for Services" - (Java, Hibernate, Spring, Elastic Search, OAuth, MySQL, AWS Cloud, JUnit)  ? A platform where service seeker advertises his/her needs to which the service providers place bids. Service seeker can then select a bid based on the available choices.  ? Design patterns like (Factory and Singleton) are made use on top of Spring.  ? Integrated Paypal for transaction management and authentication.  ? Hosted and maintained the application on the AWS server built.  ? Researched and implemented a project called Agi-tech to detect person's aggression thereby monitoring and controlling the actions of dementia patients -(Android, Python, Flask, Machine Learning, D3.js)    Environment: PHP, Laravel, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, MySQL, AWS, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Elastic Search, OAuth, MySQL, AWS Cloud, JUnit Executive Software Engineer EBS - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Extensively worked on integrating Payment Gateway Services being a part of core Research & Development Team - (Java, RESTful Web Services, Maven, OAuth, HTML, CSS, MySQL, Postman REST Client and JavaScript)  ? Designed and developed web applications that integrate Payment Gateway Services.  ? Designed the tool to generate the logs for the various errors generated at the time of payment gateway integration.  ? Implemented hashing techniques to encrypt the data provided to the gateway thereby improving the security.  ? Adopted Agile and SCRUM methodology for product development  ? Write JSP and Servlets to add functionality to web application based on customer requirements  ? Develop UI with JSP, Servlets, HTML and CSS  ? Used Spring MVC on top of J2EE, design pattern to create the application, including EJB and Spring beans for business logic  ? Created and executed test cases for Unit testing of the application  ? Git for version control and jenkins for CI/CD  ? Responsible for Unit testing the modules developed  ? Assist with production support issues and problems as required    Environment: Java, RESTful Web Services, Maven, OAuth, HTML, CSS, MySQL, REST and JavaScript Programmer Analyst Cognizant Technology Solutions - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented Contract Management System with an interface for admins and users to buy and sell the contracts (Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Maven, Jenkins, Junit, Git, HTML, CSS and JavaScript)  ? Designed and developed database models for the HR portal of cognizant, responsible for the testing of various use cases. Enhanced modules for managing employees and payments thereby improving the usability.  ? Utilized object oriented programming and java for business logic  ? Designed front end of web application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and servlets  ? Using Spring MVC on top of J2EE design pattern to create the application, including EJB and Spring beans for business logic  ? Developed Hibernate in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.  ? Configure Maven for project compilation and building.  ? Git for version control and Jenkins for CI/CD  ? Created Restful APIs for increased scalability of the application  ? Assist with production support issues and problems as required  ? Participated in ton of time in unit testing, integration testing using JUnit, PowerMock    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Jenkins, Hibernate, Java, J2EE, Junit, Git Software Programmer Mindtree Ltd August 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing, coding and modifying websites, from layout to function and according to a client's specifications  • Writing well documented, high performance, reliable, maintainable code in a variety of languages, but predominately in Java  • Install, configure and deploy software, provide quality assurance.  • Troubleshoot various software issues using debugging process and coding techniques.  • Perform system administration for hosting server and client software.  • Developed screens using Java, HTML, CSS, JSPs Servlets and JavaScript.  • Utilized object oriented programming and java for business logic  • Implemented validations and performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Testing and deploying programs and systems Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA May 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Technology JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Spring, Jax, Jboss, jquery, Application server, Javascript, Orm, Php, Restful web services, Tomcat, Web services, Websphere, Jira, Junit, Mysql, ASP, Git, Android, CSS, HTML 5 Additional Information Skill set:    Frameworks/ORM Tools Spring, Spring boot, Spring Transaction, JAX-RS, Hibernate ORM, Spring data JPA, Spring web flux  Languages Java, J2EE PHP, jQuery, JavaScript  Application Servers Tomcat, JBOSS, WebSphere  IDE's Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA, Spring Tool Suite (STS).  Databases MYSQL, Oracle DB, Mongodb, PL/SQL  Web services RESTful web services, AWS  Testing Tool Junit, PowerMock  Application server Tomcat, JBOSS, IBM WebSphere  Virtualization Oracle Virtual box, VM ware, Citrix  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, MAC OS X  Logging/Bug tracking/Management Tools Log4J, JIRA