Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Santa Clara, CA Work Experience Software Engineer March 2019 to Present SAP US  • SAP B2C product, native mobile app, using SAP Fiori sdk.  • Handover SAP C4C product to India team. Software Engineer, SAP Germany January 2018 to February 2019 Front-end developer, bringing SAP C4C online feature to offline.  • Executing TDD in daily work for implementing offline feature  • Migrate QUnit test to Mocha test,  • Integrate offline new feature to mobile app, using webpack, babel.  • Lead customer onsite in Europe for all mobile platform related issues. Software Engineer March 2015 to December 2017 SAP US  • Mobile developer for SAP Cloud for Customer product. Hybrid app development, familiar with both IOS and Windows mobile development platform, Apache Cordova framework.  • Lead mobile-wised features like Annotation, TouchID to the existing mobile app, gaining more customers with easy  smartphone accessibility.  • Develop certificate pinning to raise mobile app's security level.  • Applied all UX changes to app in the initial phase, writing good documentation for future usage. Web Developer Internship BeyondMenu - Chicago, IL June 2014 to August 2014 • Wrote scripts to test front-end new function and back-end database updating.  • Familiar with SVN, CodeSmith Graduate Assistant Purdue University January 2014 to March 2014 Design and implement Android mobile survey app"TESSA", launched in Google Play Store Human Computer Interaction September 2013 to December 2013 in Robot Version Thesis  • Performed research on data visualization, implemented controlled experiments, using data mining  • 2D RGB Image Histogram Visualization Techniques for Educational Purposes  • Designed a surgical tool recognizer, using openCV and FANUC robot Software Developer Internship Ericsson January 2013 to June 2013 • Build continuous integration tool using Jenkins, meets the automatic test demand for the team.  • Built user interface for a desktop tool to collect excel data, easy for team members to make selection. Keyboard for Blind September 2012 to November 2012 BlackBerry Application Design Competition, SJTU  • Designed and implemented a BlackBerry mobile app, and input translator algorithm. Gained experience  with BlackBerry OS, Linux System.  • Competed in the BlackBerry APP Design Competition, won high review of delicate UI design and idea  SKILL  • Java/Objective C/C#/Swift • Html / JavaScript / Css • Xcode/ Visual Studio Education M.S in Industrial Engineering in Human Computer Interaction Purdue University - West Lafayette, IN August 2013 to December 2014 B.S in Electrical Engineering in Wireless Network Shanghai Jiao Tong University - Shanghai, CN August 2009 to June 2013