Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - EMPIGO Technologies Indianapolis, IN • Highly-skilled and detail-oriented software development professional who brings more than 5 years of experience in software design, development and integration  • Advanced knowledge of C#, .NET, Python, JavaScript as well as the ability to be creative and develop effective and efficient solutions which are verifiably correct. Work Experience Software Engineer EMPIGO Technologies - Indianapolis, IN July 2018 to Present • For Arena Energy I developed and deployed C# native application following MVP pattern and data views to facilitate easy transition to mobile application. Facilitated transfer of mail logs from Proofpoint to local Syslog server using WebSocket API and CURL. Wrote code to facilitate local database maintenance for click once updateable desktop application.    • For Automatic Pool Covers I created a native desktop solution to send text messages to dealers via a chat window using Telerik Windows forms and Restful API with the ability to communicate with text messaging service API's. Maintained a file managing application used on the production assembly line with addition of new features, AD group controls and multiple build releases with feature updates. Helped maintain APC websites making updates and production build releases. Added Google Map API location pinning functionality to technician appointment dispatch.    • Helped in server migration, debug and changes of Activate Health Care SSRS data reports maintaining service SLA's.    • Implemented AWS Deep Lens based face count to report conference room utilization using Python for Machine Learning and C#, .NET MVC for web application to pull data and display it. Graduate Assistant Ball State University - Muncie, IN August 2016 to May 2018 • Helped in researching the feasibility of using existing smartphone-based fall detection system for firefighters by designing and developing an android application using Java to detect falls and verified the algorithm following CPM.  • Designed and developed ASP-NET Web API using MVC to collect fitness band data for active hours vs quality of sleep study among firefighters.  • Designed and implemented multi-radar based human positioning system using Python.  • Designed and developed Web implementation of Taboo® game using React.js.  • Assisted with ethical AI conflict data collection to be used for potential academic publications.  • Taught students using connected devices and building Raspberry Pi based control systems to support educational research.  • Researched information regarding Internet of Things security framework to assist professors with academic pursuits. Senior Software Developer Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to July 2015 • Joined an existing Agile team consisting of three developers and enabled data integration and mapping of XML data from new Java Web API's to existing Oracle databases thereby enabling business continuity for AT&T. Used TIBCO for data integration and CONTIVO for data mapping and maintained version control using Tortoise SVN.  • Formed a Scrum Team consisting of four developers, one product owner, and the Scrum Master to maintain security and deliver business critical functionalities on Mainframes and AS400 servers.  • Developed ASP.NET Web API to grab a synopsis of the security audits conducted over 400 business LPARS eliminating the need to manually consolidate the security audit findings.  • Designed and enabled the connectivity between the Java based front-end and DB2 back-end using IBM WebSphere to facilitate the functionality of a Mainframe application.  • Implemented security best practices from IBM on the test systems and audited it for additional security loopholes.  • Ran security audits on business systems using Enforcive and suggested operations for remediation.  • Implemented Enforcive releases on test system testing new features of the latest versions and updating the business LPAR's maintaining security.  • Communicated with Enforcive with known problems and applying relative patches. Software Developer Mahindra Satyam Hyderabad June 2012 to June 2013 Joined an existing CPM team consisting of seven developers to deliver business critical  functionality to a Mainframe application system.  • Designed, developed, tested and deployed Mainframe front-end controls using CICS to access DB2 data and added functionalities to the existing Graphic User Interface screens  without business interruption.  • Wrote and deployed JCL jobs and scheduled them to apply updated UI controls.  • Acted as a System Admin for test LPAR, maintained data accesses and provided them  when requested. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Ball State University - Muncie, IN 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communications Shri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara College of Engineering and Technology - Dharwad, Karnataka 2011 Skills .NET, C#, C++, HASKELL, JAVASCRIPT, PYTHON, MVC, MVP, DB2, JCL, COBOL, CICS, CPM, CRITICAL PATH, MAINTENANCE, DOCUMENTATION, SOFTWARE DOCUMENTATION, MySQL, ASP