Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer Schaumburg, IL • Sr. Software Developer with over 6 years of experience in software programming and application development for web as well as Android devices.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Generics, Exception Handling, Collections Framework, etc.  • Strong front-end UI development skills using scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Node.js, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Ext Js, Angular Js, React, DOM, JSP.  • Extensive experience in Cross-browser HTML, CSS JavaScript coding to offer responsive website layouts to modern browsers and mobile devices.  • Extensive experience with CSS3 and leveraging best practices, modifications of existing CSS files to enhance the user experience.  • Experience with Advanced JavaScript including prototype-based inheritance, AJAX, JSON, and JavaScript frameworks such as jQuery, Angular and React  • Strong experience with MySQL and SQL Server concepts.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit test cases, Integration and deployment of applications using build tools like ANT and Maven and debugging through log4j.  • Worked in Scrum and Agile methodology for software development. Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Ruffalo NL - Schaumburg, IL April 2019 to April 2019 Working as senior software developer, have been involved in the design and development of the following projects    PBC  Working with PHP (SMARTY) based software helped team in architecture and deployment, fixed bugs and wrote scripts for database (PL MySQL).  My responsibilities on this project include:  • Database maintenance (indexing archiving old data auto executable PL SQL scripts).  • Modification of backend and front end software.  • Reengineering front-end of the website to make it ADA capable.  • Fixing QA tasks.  • Design and architecture of website and MySQL database. Sr. Software Developer CPG.io - Addison, IL January 2019 to April 2019 Worked as senior software developer, have been involved in the design and development of the following projects    CPG.io (PHP Web development)  worked with platform (Mini 3) helped team in architecture and deployment, participated in platform configuration used postage SQL as database.    Pamela's-Products (Magento-php development)  Working with platform (Magneto 1.9) building an online commerce application.  My responsibilities on this project include:  • Development of new modules for MVC based magneto website.  • Modification of backend and front end software.  • Improvement of user interface and integration of new Ajax technologies in website.  • Development of APIS for website and integration to Magento website.  • Design and architecture of website and MySQL database. Sr. Software Developer ASAR America, Inc - Naperville, IL May 2018 to January 2019 Worked as senior software developer, have been involved in the design and development of the following projects    Project# B&B Manufacturing (Web and Mobile application development)  For this project I worked as one of the developers to build an online commerce application so that customers can buy online from web storefront or from mobile app (Android Mobile App). My responsibilities on this project included:  • Developed user interface elements for Web-based applications based on program specifications.  • Created web content, web graphics, and multimedia for client websites.  • Monitored site traffic and proactively implemented site enhancements in terms of capacity and scalability.  • Handled customer queries and issues and provided impeccable customer service.  • Assisted in business requirement gathering, site assessment, competitive analysis, secondary research, etc.  • Designed and documented front-end projects of various user journeys.  • Developed and maintained the presentation layer of company's site.  • Participated in code reviews of other developers' work.  • Provided technical assistance to engineers, designers, managers.  • Presented technical issues and their business impact to management.  • Managed day-to-day site design and creation.  • Integration with database.  • Unit Testing and bug fixes.  Tools and technology used: HTML5, JavaScript, PHP, Action Script 3, SQL and XML, Apache, Adobe Photoshop and adobe flash cs4, AJAX, java, android, Adriano rest and soap.  Project#2 pinnaclestonecare (Design and Development of web application)  For this project, my responsibilities included:  • Engaged in website maintenance and upgrading. Dealing with "Order Form" submission and validation.  • Used AngularJS for project's news update forms.  • Performed server code optimization using PHP, Expanded existing MVC model.  • Using PHP, MYSQL & JQUERY developed content management system.  • Designed interface mockups, database ERD, and design documentation.  • Implemented analytical and legal document reporting systems.  • Developed Integrated SOAP and REST web services as both client and provider.  • Developed, tested and maintained HTML5-based accessible and mobile applications to deliver client content to devices without Flash support  • Researched, tested, and implemented Sencha-based JavaScript framework version of content delivery application to provide cross-platform delivery.  • Researched, tested, and implemented various client feature requests to internal content management systems and content delivery applications.  • Helped develop new business logic.  • Unit Testing and bug fixes.  Tools & Technology used: PHP, XML, Java Script, and MySQL.  Project#3 (Design and Development of Smart Home Application using Android)  Responsible for building Smart home application using the Android-based system with (Java) and Adriano based system with (C++) System to have signal inscription decryption system connecting Java to C++ and sand command message through Bluetooth.  Technologies Used: Java, C++ and Android. Software Developer CWC - Tbilisi, GE August 2012 to December 2016 Working with this company, I was involved in design, development, update and ongoing maintenance of their internal web applications. My responsibilities and accomplishments on this project included:  • Worked closely with Business teams on aligning business requirements with technical ones.  • Designed and implemented multiple new features related to search and purchase using AJAX, jQuery, CSS3 and HTML5.  • Worked with jQuery Plugins to improve user experience, using Data Table, Data Charts to show the amount and product availability.  • Used jQuery to navigate to different pages of the application using DOM elements, and to create AJAX pages.  • Implemented jQuery validation plug-in, modified jQuery validation plug-in to support custom validation, jQuery modal box, jQuery date picker, jQuery tooltip.  • Used Ajax in JSON format for asynchronous request handling and partial refreshing by the user.  • Used Google static map API for maps.  • Used Maven to create build file and does Unit testing by creating Test Suites using JUnit Framework.  • Used log4j to monitor the Error Logs.    Tools and technology used: HTML5, JavaScript, PHP, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and Google API. Education Bachelor's Skills C# (2 years), C++ (1 year), HTML (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), BOOTSTRAP (3 years), JSON (6 years), PERL, PHP (8 years), PROLOG (1 year), PYTHON (Less than 1 year), XML (4 years), MYSQL (6 years), ORACLE (Less than 1 year), SQL (2 years), AJAX (6 years), ASP (2 years), CSS (8 years), ASP.NET (2 years), JAVA (6 years), jQuery (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS:  Languages and Tools: HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, XML, JAVA, C, C++, C#, ASP.net, JNode, Perl, SQL, HTML, CSS, Action scripts, JavaScript, React, jQuery,  bootstrap, angular, JSON, XML AJAX, Java, Perl, Strawberry Prolog, Python.  Databases: Oracle, MySQL and Microsoft SQL.