software engineer <span class="hl">software</span> engineer • Over 5+ Years of experience in designing, developing, maintaining, modifying and supporting software applications in domains such as Life-Science and Payment domain using .Net Technologies.  • Experience in Software Analysis, Development, Testing.  • Extensive knowledge with hands on experience on Windows and Web Based applications using C#, WCF, MVC, Java script, WinForms, WPF, Entity Framework, , SQL Server 2012.  • Good experience in coordinating and working with developers (Offshore and Onsite) in team based environment with client interaction as well.  • Ability to adapt to new environment and open to learn new technologies in a team and as an individual good at problem solving and troubleshooting capabilities. Work Experience software engineer October 2017 to Present Software Engineer TSYS October 2017 to Present Project name: Propay website.    Project Details:  ProPay provides simple, secure and affordable payment solutions for organizations ranging from small, home-based entrepreneurships to multi-billion-dollar enterprises requiring complex payment solutions. ProPay's ProtectPay® platform provides software integrators, payment facilitators and SaaS providers with all the tools necessary to easily implement payments processing.    Roles and responsibilities:  • Developing new/additional features in the product.  • Requirement gathering from client personnel for new features.  • Writing different kind of analysis, design, testing and business documents.    Tools and Technologies Used: Visual Studio 2015, .net framework, C#, asp.net, WCF, MVC Net Developer Olympus July 2015 to October 2017 Project name: Hercules Application    Project Details:  Hercules is the software development name for the new microscope developed by Olympus. This is the laser microscope developed for industrial domain  Roles and responsibilities:  • Developing new/additional features in the product.  • Requirement gathering from client personnel for new features.  • Writing different kind of analysis, design, testing and business documents.  • Mentoring juniors to ramp up in the application and help them out with problem solving.    Tools and Technologies Used: Visual Studio 2013, Snoop, .net framework, C#, MVVM Pattern, WPF. Project engineer Wipro January 2013 to October 2017 Net Developer Olympus June 2014 to June 2015 Project name: DSX Application    Project Details:  DSX is a standalone application that is used for research and educational purpose in Medical and Life Sciences.    Roles and responsibilities:  • Fixing existing issues in the system and also writing code for enhancement.  • Developing new/additional features in the product.  • Requirement gathering from client personnel for new features.  • Writing different kind of analysis, design, testing and business documents.  • The enhancement issues need to address within the functionality of the product without affecting the other functional areas.  • Ensuring end-to-end unit testing of every feature (newly added and existing) before integration testing. Education BE in Computer Science Visvesvaraya Institute of technology - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  .Net Technologies .NET Framework, C#, WCF, MVC, WinForms, Entity Framework, Basics of SQL.  UI WPF  Databases SQL Server 2012  Version Controls SVN, TFS, GIT  IDE Microsoft Visual Studio 2017/2015/2013/2012  Operating System Windows 7/ Vista / XP  Performance Tools Perfmorn, UWSC script  Standards & Trends Agile Development, SCRUM