Software Developer (.NET) <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (.NET) Software Developer (.NET) - Deloitte (California Dept of Public Health) • 8+ years. of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Client-Server and N-tier Architectures in Finance, Healthcare and Insurance and experience developing web-based and client server applications with .NET & Microsoft technologies.  • Strong Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and C#, VB.NET Programming skills.  • Sound experience in Microsoft .Net technologies like .NET Framework (2.0, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0) C# (5.0/4.0/3.0) with MS Server (SQL 2014/2012/2008/2008R2), ASP.NET, ADO.NET, VB.NET, .Net Web Services, MVC 3.0/4.0/5.0 Framework AJAX, jQuery, Angular 2 and Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), Win Forms, Windows Presentation Foundation(WPF)  • Profound working knowledge in Microsoft Office SharePoint server 2013/2010.  • Proficient with Web Page Development using HTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax.  • Expertise in OOPS, SOLID principles of OO Design, SOA, REST, DI, IOC and Design Patterns.  • Created custom wizards in K2 using SDK and Visual Studio Template.  • Good hands on Experience in database related work primarily creating complex Stored Procedure, Views, Triggers, Functions using PL/SQL, T-SQL.  • Experience in designing using Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Skills such as Encapsulation, Abstraction, Inheritance, and Polymorphism.  • Used SRE (Simple Rule Engine) library to implement easy tax calculations logics.  • Expertise in developing applications using .NET application building blocks (Data access, Exception Handling, State management).  • Experienced in Language Integrated Query (LINQ), LINQ to SQL, LINQ to Objects and Entity Framework.  • Experienced working with Active Directory authentication groups with LDAP  • Expertise in developing and consuming of windows services and web services both SOAP & RESTful API using ASP.Net Web API.  • Developed new MVVM-based WPF pages for add, delete retrieve operations  • Strong Knowledge of Database design and development and experience in writing SQL queries, views, Triggers, Stored Procedures in SQL Server, Oracle, and MS-Access.  • Experience in deploying, configuring, and maintaining web sites and services on IIS 7.0/6.0  • Good Knowledge on Java web services RESTful, SOAP web services.    • Used IBM MQ for messaging service. Developed MSMQ interface for implementing messaging system for the applications.  • Expertise in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, testing, Maintenance of Client/Server and web based applications, coder refactoring and migration.  • Proficient in creating Services and Endpoints using WCF (Windows Communication Foundation).  • Hands on experience in AGILE, SDLC Software development methodologies and test-driven development, developing use cases sequence diagrams and class diagrams in UML.  • Experience in building SILVERLIGHT 4.0/3.0 applications using .NET. Involved in building a rich web experiences using SILVERLIGHT, JavaScript, and Expression blend.  • Vast Knowledge in source control systems such as Subversion, Visual Source Safe and TFS.  • Ability to work independently and efficiently, managing time-lines and expectations along with learning new concepts quickly.  • Quality team player with vast experience in onsite and offshore project modals with Strong analytical and problem-solving skills coupled with excellent written, verbal, and interpersonal communication skills. Work Experience Software Developer (.NET) Deloitte (California Dept of Public Health) - Sacramento, CA October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Development with N-tier Architecture Using MVC 6, IIS 7, Visual studio 2017, SQL Server, WCF, SSIS, Tableau, SSRS, Power BI, TDD, Azure Active Directory (B2C) approach.  • Migrated the entire business model and application from Two-tier Architecture to N-Tier Architecture from scratch single handedly.  • Setup CICD (Continuous Integration and Development/Deployment) for the application from scratch.  • Implemented Unit Testing for the code including life cycle of Unit Testing (Fail, Pass, Refactor) and have written Asserts.  • Migrated from Windows Active Directory Authentication to Azure Active Directory B2C Authentication.  • Created User flows and users, Custom routing/ redirects for the B2C Azure Active Directory including Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) phone, text and email.  • Created and developed Complex SQL agent jobs, PLSQL queries, SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, LINQ queries etc. and proficient in using Joins, Views etc.  • Setup IIS virtual directories and website from scratch.  • Implemented custom bindings and configuration for the application including https secure bindings as well as http to https migration.  • Excellent hands on experience on the User Interface (UI) which includes HTML5(CSHTML), CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX.  • Established connections and consumed data using the WCF services with the Operation, data, service contracts.  • Developed desktop applications using WPF from scratch and implemented advanced UI in the application.  • Communication with the business stake holders (Clients) and off shore development team on regular day to day basis.  • Worked in an Agile environment by Conducting stand up calls on day to day basis as a scrum master and maintaining log documents.  • Writing user stories and estimating the stories upon sprint and requirement basis in TFS and perform production releases and deployments. .Net Developer Lead DXC Technology (TX Medicaid & Fraud Detection System) - Austin, TX December 2017 to September 2018 It is a health care project for detection of fraud and abbusement in texas medicaid benefits and programs.    Responsibilities:  • Developing applications in .Net Core, ASP.Net MVC 6 using Entity Framework6 and WEB API.  • Applied Scrum (Agile) Model for N-tier architecture which includes UI, BLL and DAL in .NET  • Vast Experience developing and converting applications using Visual Studio 2017, 2015, 2010.  • Worked on authentication via the Active Directory User groups.  • Good hands on experience in deleting, adding, creating users to the AD user groups on the AD server.  • Great experience on Fortify On Demand security tool and the issue resollutions.  • Worked on secuirity Vulnerability concepts such as SQLi (SQL Injection), Cross- Site Scripting(XSS), Cross- Frame Scripting (XFS), ASPNET REGIIS DB connection String Encrypton process etc.  • Re-wrote the entire Windows applicaton to WPF (Windows Presentation Foundation) with MVVM Pattern.    • Converted oracle stored procedures to support Entity Framework 6 and created tables, stored procedures, triggers etc in Oracle Data base.  • Used LINQ to query in memory datasets and data tables.  • Provided Technical guidance for the team to convert legacy VB.net to modern technology and the security essentials required to do so.  • Vast experience working with Oracle Client 11g, 12c and good knowledge in dealing with oracle client issues.  • Implemented Dynamic Grids, Graphs, charts and report UI using Kendo UI, Telerik Controls.  • Used Angular 2 CLI commands for productivity and global/generic building blocks.  • Re-designing the main website to improve user experience and add new functionalities using Angular 2.  • Worked with Traceur compiler for compiling ECMAScript to regular Java Script.  • Implemented the mobile tool kit system of Angular 2 for advanced mobile friendly browser support.  • Implemented Exception handling throughout all the web applications and windows/Desktop applications.  • Used Anti-XSS libraries to Encrypt the sensitive data coming from front-end.  • Worked on Serialization, Deseriaizaton and custom serialization concepts for serializing sessions and other data.  • Implemented the logic to pull and display the SSRS Reports.  • Involved in day to day code check-in to TFS (Team Foundation Server) and worked on various features such as code merge, branch, compare, rollback etc.  • Deployed the applications on IIS 8 server and handled deployment issues on IIS.  • Created RESTful Services using ASP.net Web API.  • Vast experience in Unit Testing as well as creating and reviewing the code, documentation, user manuals, technical design documents for the applications and business.    Environment: Windows, .Net Core/GO, WCF, C#, ADO.NET, Visual Studio ,2010/2015/2017, SQL Server 2012/2014, SSRS, HTML,MVC 6, Entity Framework 6, MVVM, AJAX, WPF, Active Directory (ADFS), Oracle Database, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, UML, XML, IIS 8.0 and SDLC. .Net Developer IBM-California Department of Health Care Services(DHCS) - Sacramento, CA December 2016 to November 2017 The DHCS is a health care department which is based on the Medical and Medicaid (CA-MMIS) program. The department works on provider claims, government programs such as RTIE, ACA, PE4PW, CHDC etc.    Responsibilities:  • Gaining the sub system knowledge and understanding its business requirement.  • Have done impact analysis to identify components affected with the enhancement change and documented the implementation plan for affected components.  • Have done changes to the database by adding additional columns and displayed it on the asp page.  • Migrated the whole application from classic asp (vb.net) to Asp.net 4.5  • Added SSL certificated to the web application  • Added the ajax toolkit and implemented various Ajax features and user level validations to the application.  • Implemented the SHA-256 encryption technique to encrypt the user data.  • Used TDES technique to encrypt and decrypt data while coming from the UI to the Database.  • Created a new application from scratch using the asp.net 4.5 and implemented the WCF services in it to obtain response from the client side.  • Built, deployed, and monitored the SSIS packages for the data transfer.  • Applied the AGILE methodology of the SDLC which include Business layer, Service layer and data layer for the application.  • Linked the application to the business logic in mainframes and brought validation responses from the mainframes.  • Have performed UNIT Testing and obtained the UTR.  • Have deployed the code to the System test (SIT), UAT and PROD environments and provided support to the applications    Environment: Windows, ASP. Net, WCF, C#, ADO.NET, Visual Studio 2015, SQL Server 2012/2014, SSIS, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, VSS, UML, XML, IIS 8.0 and SDLC. .Net Developer American Airlines - Fort Worth, TX October 2015 to December 2016 American Airlines, Inc. (AA), commonly referred to as American, is a major American airline headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas. It is the world's largest airline when measured by fleet size, revenue, and scheduled passenger-kilometers flown, and the second largest by number of destinations served.    Responsibilities:  • Designed the Presentation Tier by using the standard ASP.NET Controls and provided the required functionality by using C#.NET.  • Worked on major Enhancement incidents and new business incidents.  • Involved in development of Web Forms, classes using ASP.NET MVC 5.0 that incorporates both N-Tier Architecture, and Database Connectivity.  • Worked on configuring IIS, which includes creating websites under sites, Handler Mappings, Application pool, Http Bindings, and configured Application Request Routing (ARR).  • Used the latest WPF/XAML vector based UI framework for the front end and WCF.  • Developed Graphical Using Interface (GUI) for various web pages using AJAX, HTML, CSS and SILVERLIGHT.  • Worked with OOPs and OOD patterns and SOLID principles while developing the layers in the architecture.  • Implemented MVVM (Model View View Model) pattern to create Silverlight using Telluric controls.  • Developed and released MVVM based app utilizing commanding.  • Designed and implemented UI pages for other modules using C# and ASP.NET.  • Coding of UI using ASP.NET and C# for planning and scheduling modules.  • Implement the various services such as the QA Services.  • Used Entity Framework ORM to remove the need of writing the complex data access plumbing code  • Used the SRE (Simple Rule Engine) attributes like EqualTO, EmailMatchRegex, UsePhoneNumberRegex etc attributes for user validation.  • Used SRE (Simple Rule Engine) for internal applications to calculate billing totals and perform custom claim calculations.  • Developed highly-reliable cloud messaging service utilizing Azure Service Bus to set an endpoint so that the client can listen to their requested message.  • Used MVC 5.0 architectural design pattern for development of the application.  • Created various views and partial views in ASP.NET MVC.  • Worked on MVC (Model View Controller) pattern using AngularJS and created different controllers, view to be used in the project.  • Built SSIS packages to transform data to various platforms and developed deployed and monitored SSIS packages.  • Developed single page applications using AngularJS.  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Dataset, Data Adapter, and Data Reader.  • Involved in design and implementing code for business and Data Service using WCF.  • Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, and AJAX Library.  • Used ASP.NET AJAX controls for Web Application Development.  • Used LINQ to SQL to expose Relational data as objects in application code. Used Entity Framework.  • Followed SOLID principles in class design. Used DI and IOC for loose coupled application.  • Developed the Application Tier using C#.NET, WCF.  • Designed Grid using jQuery.  • Developed ASP.NET Web Forms using HTML, AngularJS, JavaScript, and CSS to control the style and layout of multiple pages.  • Involved in designing, developing, and deploying reports in MS SQL Server environment using SSRS and SSIS.  • Development of WPF code to resolve other miscellaneous outstanding issues across the application  • Created RESTful Web API endpoints for the services.  • Team Foundation Server is used for source control and used extensively for constant integration.  • Used Entity Framework ORM for Query Translation.  • Created Stored procedures, Triggers, and other DB related Queries when SQL Server linked to K2.  • Used ADO.NET (for SQL Data Provider) technology for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation.  • Developed complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers for getting the transactions that occur on a daily/monthly/yearly basis.    Environment: .NET 4.5 Framework, MVC 4.0/5.0, SQL SERVER 2012, SSIS, ASP.NET, AJAX Control Toolkit, WCF, WPF, RESTful, AngularJS, LINQ, C#, XML, HTML 5, CSS 3, TFS 2013, Visual Studio 2013, Windows Server, SSRS, SSIS, SRE (Simple Rule Engine) , MVVM, Windows 2007, IIS 7.0. .Net Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA September 2014 to September 2015 Wells Fargo is Banking Company. For Wells Fargo Securities we have worked on Small is Huge child welfare organization.    Responsibilities:  • Development was done using agile methodology with daily scrums, paired programming using TDD and continuous integration in the SDLC process.  • Actively involved in design and development using ASP.NET Master Pages, Themes, Skins, JavaScript, XML, CSS, and Visual Studio 2013.  • We had used MVC Object oriented design pattern for development of Asp Pages using Kendo Controls.  • The Presentation Layer was implemented in ASP.NET using Web Forms, User Control, and Web Controls.  • Implemented MVVM (Model View View Model) pattern to create Silverlight using Telluric controls.  • Developed and released MVVM based app utilizing commanding  • Used Telluric Controls like Rad Filtering, Rad Grid view, Rad Autocomplete Box, etc.  • Developed runtime animations using Silverlight 5.0.  • Extensively used Silverlight /WPF page layouts, animated transition controls and key-frame animations.  • Incorporated different WPF controls and Dev Express controls. Worked on validation and converters in WPF.  • Provided services like change tracking, identity resolution, lazy loading, and query translation using Entity Framework's ORM implementation to focus on the application-specific business logic rather than the data access fundamentals.  • Participated in a fully scalable mobile application using WEB API, C#, Entity Framework ORM and SQL Server  • Designed large numbers of Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls.  • Worked on middleware technologies including WMB message broker and MQ.  • Developed and Implemented logic for MSMQ in the application and set up end points.  • Worked with Expression Blend for extensive graphics, colors, and Gradient.  • Converted some ASP pages to Angular JS pages - Household Application.  • Used .Net assemblies for building forms and reports, linked tables with Access using SQL Server 2012 as Database.  • Developed the REST Full webservices using Jersey Framework, Rest Easy Framework.  • Developed WCF services to enable effective communication.  • Used WCF services to store files in a repository, using a file storage service and hosted the service using multiple end points.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) to check-in and check-out for the objects developed.  • Unit testing has implemented for every build.    Environment: Visual Studio 2012, C#, ASP.NET 4.5, WCF, Java Script, JQUERY, SILVERLIGHT, Expression Blend, Angular JS, CSS, HTML, IIS, LINQ, XML, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), TFS. .Net Developer GEICO (Choice Solutions) - IN February 2012 to July 2014 The Government Employees Insurance Company (GEICO) is an auto insurance company. It is the second largest auto insurer in the United States. It uses web services for verifying customer's address, credit history and credit card payments. It is an Intranet application, which is mainly designed to process and coordinate policies. This application helps the employees to process and maintain policy details.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and implementation of the web Application.  • Working with Iterative Agile Programming Methodologies, Scrum, and Test-driven development (TDD).  • The application was developed using the Model View Control 4 (MVC) architecture that gives a clear separation of representation of information from the user's interaction with it.  • Used C#, ASP.NET, AJAX Toolkit controls like Script Manager, Update Panel, and Modal Popup Extender within some web pages.  • Used Enterprise Libraries to connect Database (Data Access Application Block), to log on application used (logging Application Block), to handle exception used (exception Handling application block).  • Successfully developed different Web Pages using HTML 5, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Responsible for Required Analysis, timely delivery, Client interactions, Resolutions of issues.  • Designed database in SQL and created stored procedures, functions, views, Cursors and done Indexing to reduce complexity of front-end SQL queries and triggers to enforce entity relationships.  • Involved in the production support for Vehicle Insurance Quote System (VIQS).  • Used LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML and LINQ to Objects for retrieving the data efficiently and Just in Time manner through Entity Framework.  • Used Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) for communicating with other application and components.  • Responsible for developing WCF Service Libraries to exchange data between Desktop and Central Application and implement business logic.  • Implemented SSIS packages and jobs to integrate with external third parties and internal databases.  • We used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for all the source code maintenance among the whole team members.  • Involved in all the stages of SDLC. Completely understand the importance of Quality of work in deliverables given to client.  • Responsible for manual testing, Unit testing, Integration testing, System testing for modules coded.    Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2012, Agile Methodologies, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#, .NET framework 4.0, MVC4, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, WCF, TFS, SQL Server 2008, Web Services, Entity Framework, AJAX, LINQ. Software Developer (.Net) Unisys India Pvt Ltd April 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on C# .NET 2.0 ASP.NET Web Applications Development and Maintenance.  • Worked on Statoil's Financial Solutions tool to create, edit or modify financial data and generates quarterly, half yearly and annual reports.  • Theoretical Knowledge on  • Worked on ADO.NET and SQL Server 2008/2005 development and integration activities.  • Worked on Web Services development and deployment in .NET 2.0  • Worked on Windows Application development in C# and maintenance activities.  • Worked on complete SDLC life cycle from Requirement gathering, Design Documents creation, Development, Deployment & Implementation.  • Worked on WCF Services and SOAP Services in .NET 3.5 and in Store Procedures.  • Worked on SQL Server 2005 mainly on creating/modifying Store Procedures & Triggers    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, SQL Server 2008/2005, Visual Studio 2008 ASP .NET, ADO .NET, .Net 2.0, JavaScript, Visual Source Safe 6.0, SOAP UI. Skills .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Biztalk, C#, C++, Design patterns, Javascript, Json, Message queue, .net framework 2.0, Wcf, Object-oriented, Php, Reporting tools, Subversion, Svn, Vb.net, Windows sharepoint services, Xml