BI Developer BI <span class="hl">Developer</span> BI Developer - Tata Consultancyservicesince • Having 4.5+ years of Professional experience in IT industry, Involved in MSBI projects with extensive usage of ETL & Reporting tools like SQL Server Integration Services(SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Service(SSRS), Power BI Dashboard and Tableau.  • Involved in Huge data Load, transfers using utilities like Data Transformation Services (DTS), and SSIS, Bulk Copy Program (BCP) and Bulk Insert.  • Expertise in Performance tuning, Optimization, Data integrity and Statistics by using SQL Profiler  • Experienced in programming tasks-Stored Procedures, Functions and Views using SQL Server 2008/2012 with T-SQL.  • Experience in providing Logging, Error handling by using Event Handler, and Custom Logging for SSIS Packages.  • Experience in Performance Tuning in SSIS packages by using Row Transformations, Block and Unblock Transformations.  • Expertise in generating reports using SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Expertise Analysis using Excel, Power Pivot Reports and Drill Through Dashboards using Warehouses and OLTP Connections.  • Good Knowledge on SQL Server (2008&2012) Analysis Services.  • Implemented checkpoints at package level.  • Have worked in multiple projects as BI Developer in Designing ETL Packages and reports in development and implementation stages of the Project according to client requirements.  • Used Control Flow Tasks like For Loop Container, For Each Loop Container, Sequential Container, Execute SQL Task and Data Flow Task in Designing packages.  • Proven proficiency at Data Transformations like Lookup, Derived Column, Conditional Split, and sort, data Conversion, Union All, Merge Join, SCDand OLEDB Command to load data into SQL Server destination.  • Maintaining the Log and Audit information in the SQL tables.  • Creating the reports as per client's requirements in the form of table, matrix, Chart.    • Scheduling the Reports Weekly and Monthly basis as per the Client Requirements.    • Extensive knowledge on SQL Server 2005-2008R2-2012    • Good communication, inter-personnel skills and good team player. Work Experience BI Developer Tata Consultancyservicesince July 2017 to Present Having 4.6+ years of experience MSBI Developer BI Developer Ditech Financial LLC July 2017 to Present Project Description:    The main objective of this project is to develop a relational data warehouse for client Ditech. Ditech Financial LLC (rebranded from "ditech Mortgage" and "Green Tree Servicing" in 2015) is a provider of home loan, loan servicing and refinance products to consumers and institutional partners in the U.S.  In this project we are consuming data from different sources (Excel, Flat file, Sql Server etc..)and integrated data from all sources to that relational data model.We have created common framework to build all the packages and it flows from prestage, stage and final relational database layer(DWH), and we are scheduling SSIS packages using robot tool. From DWH tables we creating the SSRS reports.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Create reports as per user requirements using SQL Server Reporting service (SSRS).  • Generating reports using SSRS from SQL Server database (OLTP).  • Involved in creating report queries for the reports.  • Experience in developing Table, Matrix Reports, Sub Reports, Linked reports, Dashboards using SQL Server Reporting Services(SSRS).  • I have written different Expressions and am used variety functions in reports.  • As per client request, I had developed the SSIS packages for loading data from different data sources like Flat file, Excel, OLEDB to SQL Server database.  • Scheduling the Packages Weekly and Monthly basis as per the Client Requirements.  • Created action filters, parameters and calculations for preparing dashboards and worksheets in Tableau.  • Employed various Tableau Functionalities like Extracts, Parameters, Filters, Data Source Filters, Actions, Functions, Hierarchies, Groups, Calculations, Data Blending and Maps etc.  • Excellent understanding of Data Warehouse architecture, Star Schema, Snowflake Schemas, Fact and Dimensions Tables.    Project 2#:  Project: Retailer Help Line Software Engineer Bajaj Finserv Limited September 2016 to July 2017 Worked as a Software Engineer in Genpact since March 2015 to Aug 2016.    Technical Skills    Databases: SQL Server, PlSql  ETL Tools: SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS 2008R2-2012)  Reporting Tool: SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS 2008R2-2012), Power BI  OLAP Tools: SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS 2008R2-2012)    Operating Systems: Windows xp, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows Vista.    Project 3#:  Project: Ditech Mortgage Software Engineer Bajaj Finserv Limited September 2016 to July 2017 Project Description:    Bajaj Finserv, a part of Bajaj Holdings & Investments Limited. Bajaj Finserv is an Indian financial services focused on lending, asset management, Wealth management and Insurance.  The company through its joint ventures and subsidiaries employs over 20,000 employees and has established a nationwide presence across over 1400 locations.  The company is currently engaged in consumer finance businesses, life insurance, and general insurance and BajajFinserv plans to expand its business by offering a wide array of financial products and services in India.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating report queries for the reports.  • Experience in developing Table, Matrix Reports, Sub Reports, Linked reports, Dashboards using SQL Server Reporting Services(SSRS).  • I have written different Expressions and am used variety functions in reports.  • As per client request, I had developed the SSIS packages for Loading data from different data sources like Flat file, Excel, OLEDB to SQL Server database.  • Designed and implemented parameterized and cascading parameterized reports, Sub reports using SSRS 2012.  • Modifying already existed stored procedures, Report Dataset Query's as per user requirements.  • As per client requirements rendering the reports in the form PDF and Excel formats.    Project 1#:  Project: Finance Management for Transcom Associate Software Engineer Transcom - DK March 2015 to August 2016 Team Size: 6    Project Description:    Transcom is global outsourced service provider with customer management and credit management services. They maintain their clients' customer relationships and secure their revenue streams. Their broad service supports every stage of customer lifecycle, from acquisition through service, retention, cross and upsell, then on through early and contingent collection to legal recovery. They maintain their loyalty and secure their payments.  They maintain all their data in sql server. We build their data warehouse for their reporting mainly analytic for day to day and for their clients to see their customer case progress for a period of time they want to see mainly monthly bases. We designed the load on OLTP and form warehouse we designed reports for their customers.  Roles & Responsibilities:    • Developed, deployed and monitored SSIS Packages for new ETL Processes and upgraded the existing DTS packages to SSIS for the on-going ETL Processes.  • Monitored Full/Incremental/Daily Loads and support all scheduled ETL jobs for batch processing.  • Migration of DTS packages to SSIS packages.  • Involved in Migration of Databases from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 using SSIS.  • Involved in Technical decisions for Business requirement, Interaction with Business Analysts, Development team, Capacity planning and Up gradation of System Configuration.  • Design in implemented SSIS Package to transfer data from source to Staging area adding the Technical fields and finally loading the data into area adding technical fields and finally loading the data into target systems.  • Designing the reports based on report specification documents.  • Scripted OLAP database backup and scheduled a daily backup using SQL Server agent job.  • Used SQL Profiler for Performance monitor to resolve Dead Locks and long running queries by checking appropriate changes to Transaction Isolation levels. Education B.Tech JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana