Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Intercontinental Hotel Group Atlanta, GA • Over 7 years of progressive experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment using java/J2EE technologies.  • Extensive experience in building enterprise Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JSF EJB, Hibernate, spring, JDBC, JMS, AWS and XML.  • Extensive knowledge of MVC architecture and J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Session Facade, DAO and Business Delegate in the development of web based and distributed Enterprise Applications. Solid experience in application development as a Java/J2EE developer using Tomcat  • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like GWT, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Angular 7, JSF and JSP. Experience in designing Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) with jQuery.  • Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/WSDL) using Top down Approach and Bottom up Approach. Developed ANT scripts, and used Maven tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications using Puppet.  • Used Middleware technologies like JMS. Gemfire caching.  • Worked on Log4j configuration and setup and Implementation part and Cruise control for Integration.  • Used Log4j along with Kibana for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  • Good working knowledge on GIT for Software configuration management (SCM) and version control.  • Experience in programming, deploying, configuring and administering Application Servers like BEA Web Logic 9.0/10.0, JBoss and Web Servers like Apache Tomcat 7.0/6.0.  • Expertise in Agile Software Development Methodology including Scrum technology.  • Experience in designing, developing and implementing B2B applications using J2EE technologies in Telecom, Hospitality, Retail domains.  • Expertise in n-tier Architecture, object oriented Enterprise Java web applications using J2EE technologies/frameworks which includes JSP, Servlets (Entity Beans, Session Beans, MDB, Transactions, Security), JMS, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, IBM MQ, JavaScript, SOAP/Rest Web services.  • Designed and developed reports using Jasper Reports and provided integration points for services written in Java.  • Knowledge in Elastic search and Lucene API's helped in implementing few POC's.  • Experience of Database design in Oracle/SQL Server query based programming and PL/SQL procedure programming and proficient in Database programming using JDBC and SQL.  • Experience in writing database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, for Oracle, SQL Server.  • Worked on writing test cases using JUnit and Mockito and configured them through Maven sure fire plugins to be part of continuous integration.  • Versatile team player with good communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Intercontinental Hotel Group - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with the Business/Users team in translating technical requirements into application code  • Worked on IRIS (IVR Reservation tool), successfully developed Web Services (SOAP and REST) using Spring REST and Jersey frameworks. As part of this project consumes data from multiple services.  • Actively involved in migrating our application from SOAP to REST services, writing JUnit test cases, Bug fixing and trouble shooting.  • I have developed on Continuous Integration of our Integration, UAT and Staging environments and actively participated on Build and Release Operations for few applications. Worked on Jenkins, Shell scripting to automate our Build and Release process. Successfully implemented POCs for AWS integration into our existing architecture.  • Worked on moving apps and services to APIGEE proxies.  • Integrated spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  • Worked on migrating Persistence layer from simple DAO to Spring/Hibernate.  • Developed web layer using springs framework and to manage the project in MVC pattern.  • Designed and developed a RESTful APIs using Spring REST API.  • Client pages are built using HTML, CSS, JSP, AngularJS and JavaScript/JQuery.  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls. Worked on Middleware using JMS and Data Serialization.  • Used JMS to debug the launch messages and handled queued transactions with IBM MQ.  • Used AngularJS framework for building Single page web-apps and Elastic Search API.  • Worked on a proof of concept (POC) to implement new features using React.js and created a UI dash board for the existing application that can support dynamic Mobile views.  • Developed helper EJB's, classes, delegate classes, value objects to access business tier and transfer the information from business layer to the presentation layer.  • Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology using Rally Agile Development Software.  • Configured and deployed the application using Tomcat, WebLogic, Puppet and WebSphere Application Server.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections. Implemented Multithreading, Synchronization using Thread pools, executive service and lock interfaces.  • Created application on Spring Batch framework and Multithreading to improve performance.  • Used Multithreading for faster and parallel processing of documents.  • Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle11g database.  • Defined XML documents for input and output sources of Web Services. Created schema documents for XML validation and developed XML schemas.  • Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  • Responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries, also used JUnit for unit testing and Mockito for mock based testing.  • Used Git as an SCM tool for Version Control.  • Used log4j with Splunk Logging for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  • Actively involved in code reviews and also in bug fixing using ClearQuest as bug tracking tool.    Environment: Java, JSP, EJB, JavaScript, jQuery, Maven, Spring, Hibernate, IntelliJ,Oracle11g, JMS,JPA, Tomcat, Spring REST API JUnit, XML, GIT, HTML5, CSS3, SOLR, Angular, AWS, Jenkins, IBM MQ, and Rally. Software Developer Symphony EYC - Atlanta, GA August 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, development and enhancements of the projects for building wire line flows.  • Played a key role in developing the business layer and data management components of this web based system over J2EE architecture for a point of sale Application.  • Involved in meetings and discussions with Business Architects to understand the system requirements and solution approach.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Developed EJBs for implementing backend functionalities.  • Involved in using Bootstrap, Google Web Tool Kit (GWT) Angular for the development of UI.  • Developed Graphical User Interface (front-end) using JSP, JSF, HTML5, JSTL, CSS, JavaScript, Backbone and custom tags and worked with BPM suites to implement J2EE architecture.  • Extensively used Data Serialization with POF, JSON, Thrift and Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL.  • Used Web Services (JAXWS) to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP protocol.  • Involved in design, development of Restful and SOAP web services  • Performed client side designing and validations using HTML5, DOJO, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and Struts Tag Library. And worked on Security Authentication using OAuth etc.  • Used Gradle for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  • Preparation of Application Design doc, test plan and cases and bugZilla for bug tracking.  • Used JUnit to unit test the modules & Log4j along with Splunk for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  • Worked closely with cross-functional teams (QA, BA, PM, Product Owner) as a part of AGILE environment    Environment: Java, Spring API, EJB 3.0, 2.0, Angular.js, JSP, HTML5, Restful, SOAP, CSS, BootStrap, GWT, Gradle, Jenkins, Splunk, Log4j, JavaScript, AJAX, WebLogic, JavaScript, DOJO, JSON, JBoss, jQuery, XML, JUnit, MongoDB (NOSQL), WebLogic, Puppet, IntelliJ. Java Developer Lowes - Charlotte, NC December 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in meetings with Business Analysts and Architects to identify the scope, requirements and architecture of the project.  • Followed MVC model and used spring frameworks for developing the Web layer of the application.  • Extensively used Spring API framework to migrate from Struts framework.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database.  • Involved in SQL Server 2008 Database design for new modules and developed the persistence layer based on Hibernate.  • Involved in enhancement of existing application utilizing JS, created role based HTML navigation menu wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Front Controller, MVC, Business Delegate and Session Facade.  • Developed User Interface and web page screens for various modules using JSF, JavaScript, and AJAX using RAD.  • Write front end code for developing new pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using Middleware like JMS.  • Involved in preparing Ant builds scripts (XML based), deployment sand integration and configuration management of the entire application modules.  • Implemented the J2EE design patterns Data Access Object (DAO), Session Façade and Business Delegate. Worked with putty to maintain SSH clients when required.  • Used Log4j for logging, tracing and debugging.  • Used GIT for software development and other version control tasks.  • Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in JBoss Application Server.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit and Mockito and configured them through Mavensurefire plugins to be part of continuous integration.    Environment: Java, spring, Hibernate, JSP, HTML5, CSS, ANT, JMS, JavaScript, AJAX, JBoss, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, JUnit, Git, Eclipse. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JAVA TECHNOLOGIES, SPRING, JBOSS, JMS, jQuery, JSF, JSP, SERVLETS, Git, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS, PYTHON, VISIO, XML, XSL, XSLT, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, MVC, Angularjs, JEE