Angular2 Software Developer Angular2 <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - JetBlue Airways Elmhurst, NY • About 4 years of experience in Design, Development, Implementation and testing of Front-End of Web-based application and Client-Server applications in the U.S. On the top of the latest trends and technologies. Ability to improvise, troubleshoot, take ownership. Tremendous skill at employing common UI Design Patterns.  • Expert level skills in UI (User Interface) application development using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JAVASCRIPT, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, Angular and DOM manipulation.  • Excellent in building Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS and Angular framework.  • Expertise in Twitter Bootstrap, Foundation, CSS Susy and Angular Material framework and building responsive website for different devices, such as desktop, laptop, mobile, and iPad.  • Strong experience in Version Control tools GIT.  • Great experience in task runners Gulp and Grunt. Module bundler Webpack for Angular.  • Expert level skills in Typescript for both AngularJS and Angular.  • Expert in test-driven development (TDD) by using unit testing tools Karma, Jest.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Google chrome, Internet Explorer, Mozilla and Firefox.  • Familiar with overall web development tool MEAN Stack.  • Excellent skills to upgrade AngularJS dependency Injection framework to component Angular.  • Strong skill on analyzing project architect and deploying on cloud (AWS). Certified on associated level of AWS certified solutions architect.  • Strong knowledge of object-oriented programming (OOP).  • Effective communication, problem-solving, and planning skills, with ability to work independently or in a team environment.  • Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development. Work Experience Angular2 Software Developer JetBlue Airways - Long Island, NY January 2018 to Present Project: JetBlue Digital 2020 (Web Products Engineering Team)  • Work in an Agile team using Agile JIRA scrum and Kanban.  • Work on CSS grid system and front-end integration using Tachyons and JB component library  • Worked as product owner of JB component library  • Used SonarQube, JSHint to monitor code quality, modify rules for code acceptance criteria.  • Work on Angular-Redux state container to better manage states.  • Used Rxjs to control angular data stream.  • Test unit testing cases by using Jest and Angular CLI.  • Used Angular-Material for checkin form  • Utiliy library using Rambda instead of lodash.  • Used NodeJS and Express as web server. Build and test Server-Side Rendering SSR.  • Created Docker container to test jetblue.com SSR locally.  • Used yarn instead of NPM for the package management for better performance.  • Worked with Devops team and successfully released jetblue.com several times  • Worked on jetblue where we jet using google maps API UI Developer Aetna - ActiveHealth Management - New York, NY January 2017 to December 2017 Project: Clinical Analysis Rules App (Rules App UI team)  • Work in an Agile team using scrum and Kanban (CA Rally).  • Developed various pages such as login, repository selection, rule editor, read only using Typescript, AngularJS, Angular and various libraries.  • Upgrade the UI framework from AngularJS to Angular using component-based Typescript syntax and NgUpgrade module. Upgrade Gulp workflow to webpack.  • Used SonarQube, JSHint and TSLint to monitor code quality, modify rules for code acceptance criteria.  • Used NodeJS and Express as web server. Used Java as backend API server.  • Centralize API and Templates by using AngularJS service.  • Used swagger to generate and view API details, auto generate AngularJS client http service.  • Used npm and bower for the package management, upgrade npm to yarn for performance.  • Git feature branch workflow to reduce merge conflicts, pull request for code review before merge. Release branch for stable version.  • Devops tool Jenkins to auto deploy client-side application based on git branches, debug server is triggered by git push while release server is based on nightly build. UI Developer Monsanto Company - St. Louis, MO June 2016 to January 2017 Project: Advanced Digital Agriculture Platform (API engineering team)  • Worked on analysis, development and testing phases of the application using Agile Jira (scrum and kanban) methodology.  • Developed various pages such as landing, registration, dashboard, data visualization using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, CanJS and AngularJS.  • Created Navigation bar, Dropdown menu, Pagination, Modal, Form using Angular-UI- Bootstrap.  • Used ng-Animate, CSS transition and animation to provide animations.  • Used npm and bower for the package management and Git for the version control.  • Used amazon web service (AWS) to perform cloud storage and compute tasks.  • Used Akana API platform to perform API management tasks. Software Engineer TechnomaxLLC - Princeton, NJ December 2015 to May 2016 Project: Dashboard Login System for Employees Information  • Developed the front-end components using AngularJS Framework that leverages classical Model View Control (MVC) architecture.  • Designed User Interface using with HTML5, JQuery, CSS3 and SASS.  • Implemented Compass to enhance SASS functionalities.  • Involved in the developing functions to acquire data from API server using AJAX.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website that fits all users and devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone.  • Utilized Agile to push project continuously growing.  • Used Jasmine and Karma to run unit testing for the project. Education Master of Science in Engineering in Engineering Stony Brook University, State University of New York - New York, NY August 2013 to August 2015 Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering TaiYuan University of Science and Technology - TaiYuan, CN September 2009 to June 2013 Engineering San Francisco State University - San Francisco, CA August 2011 to June 2012 Skills Docker, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Vs code, Python, Angularjs, Html5, Sass, Jira, Ajax, Java, jquery, Version control, Mongodb, Matlab, Sql, Mac, Mac os Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/dacheng-zhao-700b1491 Certifications/Licenses AWS certified solutions architect May 2018 to May 2020 Additional Information Udacity deep reinforcement learning nanodegree