Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Princess Cruises, Valencia, CA Valencia, CA • 4 years of IT professional experience with full project life cycle development in J2EE technologies,  Requirements analysis and design, Development, Testing and production support of software applications.  • Extensive skills in Java, SQL, Spring MVC, Struts 2, Spring, JDBC, Hibernate, Web Services, JSON,  Jasper Reports.  • Experienced in developing user interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  • Extensive experience in agile methodology SCRUM.  • Familiar in SQL with DDL and DML commands. Skilled in writing complex SQL queries.  • Good team player with ability to solve problems, organize and prioritize multiple tasks.  • Have ability to learn new technologies quickly and efficiently. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer Imcs Group - Valencia, CA August 2015 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software development life cycle (SDLC) including design, analysis, modeling, development and testing of the system.  • Adopted J2EE best Practices, using Core J2EE patterns. Developed web applications in Intellij & Eclipse  environment using Struts 2 and Spring based MVC framework.  • Involved in writing SQL queries, modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features. Used JDBC, Hibernate templates while retrieving from database.  • Implemented RESTful based web Services to communicate information from one subsystem to another  subsystem.  • Designed various reports in PDF and Excel using Jasper Reports. Used GIT for source control system.  • Developed user interface/front end using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery and Ajax.  • Familiar in writing Integration and Unit test cases. Developed Selenium tests for web pages.  • Production support for assigned tickets and changing Java code/Web pages as required.  • Used Tomcat 7 for the web application development and testing the application in local environment.  • Experience in Scrum environment and collaborating with product owners and business analysts to understand the requirements. Used Jenkins for CI/ CD.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Tomcat 7, Struts 2, SQL, JDBC, Hibernate JSP, Gradle, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Ajax, JUnit, Git, Jira, Jenkins, RESTful Web services, Jenkins. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University May 2015 Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science Valliammai Engineering College, Anna University May 2013 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Git, Javascript, jQuery Additional Information SKILLS:  Operating Systems: Windows, Mac OS X.  Languages and Technologies: Java, SQL, Data Structures and Algorithms, Struts 2, Spring, JDBC,  Hibernate, Web Services, JSON, Jasper Reports, JSP.  Web Technologies: J2EE, RESTful, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, Ajax.  RDBMS: Oracle 12c  IDEs and other Tools: Intellij, Eclipse, SQL Plus, Jasper Studio.  Version Control: Git, SVN.  Methodologies: Agile Scrum Methodology.  Build Tools: Gradle