Mobile Developer / Digital Strategy Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Digital Strategy Charlotte, NC Work Experience Mobile Developer / Digital Strategy Hurdlex / Independent Projects - Charlotte, NC October 2016 to Present Hurdlex  • Bootstrapped the “Hurdlex” brand, iOS and Android mobile applications and website.  • Grew the Hurdlex brand to over 16,000 Instagram followers in 3 months.  • Primarily in charge of “technical” aspects of the Hurdlex business including e-commerce, software development and marketing.  • Worked with the WooCommerce API to integrate online products into mobile apps and Instagram.  • Implemented best practices in SEO to boost site traffic to the hurdlex Wordpress blog.    Independent Projects  - Developed and published multiple consumer entertainment and streaming audio apps on Google Play and the App Store totaling over 100,000 downloads and generally positive reviews.  • Very savvy with analytical tools and services including implementing Google Analytics into mobile applications. Heavy use of Firebase event tracking and tagging.  - Heavy use of native development tools Xcode and Android Studio.  - Experience coding advanced Android functionality (Memory management, Fragments, View Holder pattern/RecyclerView, GCM, Async Tasks, Material Design etc)  - Experience incorporating popular SDK's and libraries including Firebase and Google APIs.  - Responsible for all development, testing, marketing, distribution, keystores and updates.  - Keen on writing clean, compact, quality code that can run reliably on as many Android devices as possible. Android Developer Lowe' Home Improvement - Mooresville, NC October 2018 to February 2019 • Joined the team as more of a “consultant” role during the final stages of a large mobility project for Store Associates  • Quickly learned and utilized more Kotlin to develop features and fix defects  • Analyzed Kotlin code to determine areas that could be improved in regards to readability and performance  • Used SonarQube to inspect code, identifying functions that needed to be tested. Wrote unit tests for those functions and classes, resulting in improvements in code coverage  • Lightly worked on the Lowe’s consumer app for Android, converting some Java classes to Kotlin Android Developer Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC March 2018 to September 2018 • Android Developer on multiple large scale projects, internal and external facing  • Leveraging a very broad range of technologies and API’s  • Developed apps adhering strictly to Android/Java/ JS best practices, MVVM design patterns and use of Android Architecture Components. Heavy use of Google Maps API  • Gained exposure to many new technologies and in a short amount of time greatly improved overall as a developer from code reviews and Android peer discussions  • Heavy emphasis on building quality applications with focus on performance  • Was introduced to unit testing with Mockito and Robolectric. Every line of code written was efficient, easily readable, safe, fast, and just about perfect  • Began to learn Kotlin Mobile Developer VectorVest - Cornelius, NC January 2016 to March 2018 - Mobile/Android expert on a small team of full stack developers building VectorVest's first version of its stock analysis app for Android.  - Was responsible for project planning (Architecture, coding standards, git flow, etc)  - Converted most of a large existing iOS (swift) codebase to Java where possible to speed up development.  - Worked with live stock market data to develop lists, live streaming stock data, charts, gauges and various other analytical tools for users. Senior Android Engineer Socialtopias - Charlotte, NC February 2016 to December 2016 - First major role at a startup. Took over and refactored an existing code base to develop and launch the first major version of the "Hopspot" social networking app for Android.  - Closely worked with a talented startup team of Mobile, UX, Backend and Business units throughout each sprint.  - Utilized popular libraries and API's to meet business requirements and create an awesome product. (Retrofit, EventBus, Butterknife, Location Services, GCM, Google Analytics, etc.)  - Worked with Junior Android Developer to provide direction and teach new skills.  - Assisted iOS developers with debugging and low-priority issues when necessary.  - Updated Hopspot to handle permission preferences for Android Marshmallow.  - Was in charge of each release of Hopspot by maintaining code branches, APK's, Keystores, App Store releases, etc. Mobile Software Engineer Velocitor Solutions - Charlotte, NC August 2015 to February 2016 - The key native Android resource on a small agile team.  - Actively participated in daily standup, retro/demo, sprint planning, brainstorming, etc.  - Developed a "silent install" app updater for clients using Motorola MC40 Android devices.  - Maintained multiple cross-platform Android and iOS apps built in Xamarin Studio  - Resolved tickets for each sprint early in order to take on R&D projects including analytics, continuous integration and build automation.  - Reviewed native Android and iOS apps to clean up and optimize code where necessary.  - Integrated and managed analytics and crash reporting for Xamarin apps. Software Developer (Data Analytics) XOOM Energy - Huntersville, NC May 2015 to August 2015 -Developed financial reporting tools using Visual C# and SQL Server (SSIS).  -Frequently collaborated with management, data analysts, and other developers to gather business requirements and combine ideas for future reports.  -Wrote ad-hoc SQL queries for team members and management when requested.  -Developed a Windows application that automatically generated sales reports for management daily. Software Developer Tharpe Robbins - Statesville, NC November 2014 to March 2015 - Worked in a Visual Studio 2012 and SQL Server 2008R2 environment.  - Responsible for re-writing and giving life to a variety of internal applications and utilities.  - Learned on the fly while converting VPRO5 console applications to Windows Forms using C#.  - Worked closely with senior developers to test, debug and ensure accuracy of the new applications. Associate Software Engineer Jack Henry and Associates - Charlotte, NC August 2013 to October 2014 - Worked in primarily a VB.NET (.NET 4.0) and SQL Server 2008R2 environment.  - Utilized technical strategies such as Entity Framework, LINQ, Business Layer designs and a very light use of Agile Methodology.  - Was responsible for the bringing of data from an external vendor into the Core Credit Union software using SQL stored procedures and various in-house conversion tools, making sure it met the input and validation needs of the JHA system.  - Constantly kept in touch with clients, ensuring that their data conversion was as smooth as possible.  - Built various utilities in VB.NET that were used internally by the implementations team.  - Created ad-hoc reports using SQL and SSRS Report Builder.  - Fixed bugs in the core product when necessary. Associate Support Agent QS1 Data Systems - Spartanburg, SC May 2013 to July 2013 - Developed a thorough knowledge of QS1's Windows-based Pharmacy software.  - Provided technical support to customers, answering questions on function and usage of QS1 software via telephone.  - Resolved clients' problems in the areas of software configuration and functionality.  - Involved in additional follow up, testing and troubleshooting of the software. Education Bachelor of Arts in Information Management Systems University of South Carolina Upstate - Spartanburg, SC 2013 Skills .NET (1 year), Android (5 years), iOS (2 years), Java (5 years), XCode (4 years), GIT, Android Sdk, Google Additional Information - Developed and implemented successful large-scale applications from conception to completion.  - Expert in mobile development best practices, design patterns and standards.  - Excellent analytical, personal, and problem-solving skills.  -Not only a solid developer but a "go getter" with both technical skills and entrepreneurial drive.    Technical Skills:  Tools: Android Studio, Gradle, XCode, Zeplin, Postman, Jira, Visual Studio, Microsoft Visio.  Source Control: Git, Bitbucket, Sourcetree, TFS  Languages: Java, Swift, Kotlin, Objective-C, C#.  Databases: SQL Server, Firebase, SSIS, SQLite, Realm  Android: 6 years of experience developing Android apps independently and professionally.  iOS: 3 years of light experience developing iOS apps using Objective-C and Swift.