Software developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Software developer • 9+ years of experience in systems development, analysis and project development, Deployment using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Automate information technology requirements  • Coordinate projects in time and form, as well as the necessary dependencies with other systems and applications development teams  • Support and development of systems and applications  • Coordinate IT area team for change control  • Coordinate projects, pending and systems failures  • Attention of incidents and requirements of the systems area  • Promote research and development of new technologies  • Coordinate and implement new projects and technologies  • Analysis, design and development of technological solutions  • Analysis and review of improvements to the Development and Infrastructure processes  • Proposal for improvements in the methodology of development projects  • Develop and implement new information technologies, as well as supervise and review the development of systems projects using J2EE technologies JAVA, Oracle, SQL-Server.  • Experience in designing user Interface and professional web applications using HTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery, JSON and CSS.  • Experience in programming, deploying, configuring and administering Application Servers like JBoss and Web Servers like Apache Tomcat  • Experience of Database design in Oracle/SQLServer query based programming and PL/SQL procedure programming.  • Implementing Web Services (SOAP/REST/WSDL), and used Maven tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  • Good working knowledge in version control tools like CVS and GIT repository.  • Expertise MVC frameworks using Spring Framework, Spring security, Spring Quartz.  • Worked with servers IBM WEB SPHERE, WEBLOGIC, JBoss and Apache's Tomcat.  • Solicited requirements and developed custom components for internal customers in Java, ASP, PHP, Swift, Java Android, XML/XSLT, and SOAP-based services.  • Hands on experience working with the UI technologies like HTML, JavaScript, JSF, JSP tag libraries.  • Sound Knowledge of Bootstrap Framework for Responsive Web Applications.  • Website development using PHP, MySQL, Java , ORACLE SQL  • Expertise on entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in Intranet and Internet applications using Web/Application Servers like Tomcat, JBoss, Web Sphere, Web Logic.  • Experience in modeling presentation tier using Struts MVC2 (Model-View-Controller) architecture. Work Experience Software developer EE Software August 2010 to August 2012 Understanding software requirement and utilizing apposite technology to enunciate most apposite data flow between front end and back end technologies.  • Management of query-level databases and stored procedures, using Transact-SQL  • Script creation for front-end banking campaigns using Java language, Javascript, JQuery, Ajax  • Creation of massive automatic processes at the email level for users of banking investments using php languaje  • Implement new information technologies for the proper functioning of business systems  • Use of Apache tomcat server and Netbeans IDE  • Involved in requirements gathering and analysis from the existing system  • User Input Validation is done using the JavaScript.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AJAX and JavaScript.  • Deployed and tested the application with web server Tomcat  • Developed and implemented all software models for all software systems and analyze all business requirements for all processes.  • Played a key role in developing the business layer and data management components of this web based system over J2EE architecture.  • Used SVN for version control and source management.    Environment: Java , Javascript, JQuery, Java Servlets, Struts MVC, SVN, Transact-SQL. Skills AJAX (2 years), APACHE (2 years), DATABASES (2 years), J2EE (2 years), JAVA (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Java/J2EE, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML.  J2EE Technologies and service API's Java, Jsp, Servlets.  Open Source/Framework Struts MVC, Spring security, Spring Quartz, Spring MVC, Angular JS, Bootstrap.  Databases Oracle 10g, My SQL, Transact-SQL.  Application Servers / Web Services Oracle Web Logic, IBM Web sphere, JBOSS Apache Tomcat, SOAP, REST.  Apache Tools Maven , Apache ant  Development Tools / Testing Tools Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM Rational, Visual Studio Code.    Operating Systems Windows, UNIX.  Internet Technologies Java Script, CSS3, AJAX, HTML5, XML,PHP..  Programming Concepts Object Oriented Programming(OOPS)  Version Control CVS, SVN, GIT Repository.