Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - HCL America New York, NY ? Over 5 years of diverse experience in the field of Web Application Development including Client/Server with proficiency in HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  ? Experienced in working on ES6 and ES7 with AngularJS and Angular 2+.  ? Experienced in Unit Testing and Integration Testing using Jasmine and Karma.  ? Experienced in GUI development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Angular Material.  ? Experience with web-based enterprise platforms using Java/JEE technologies.  ? Able to analyze business requirements and formulate a design in both individual and team scenarios.  ? Experience working on full stack development in the recent projects with various JavaScript frameworks and java technologies.  ? Experience in Micro Services development using spring boot and deployment in Microsoft Azure cloud.  ? Proficient in using Docker for spinning up loosely coupled microservices needed for development and using Microsoft Azure for QA Deployments.  ? Working experience with relational and no-sql databases such as Oracle, SQL Server, MongoDB and using Drivers and Spring Data for interaction.  ? Experienced in using Webpack as module bundling tools.  ? Experienced with Star Team, CA Rally, GitHub and BitBucket.  ? Strong experience working in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC).  ? Excellent communication skills, team player, quick learner and self-motivated.  ? Experience in various methodologies like waterfall and Agile  ? Experienced in managing daily communication with offshore development teams.  ? Ability to learn new frameworks, design patterns quickly and adapt. Work Experience Software Developer HCL America - Secaucus, NJ December 2018 to Present Project: Quest Clinical Trial Connect (QCTC)    Responsibilities:  ? Analyze requirements and contribute in design and high-level architecture.  ? Extensively involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle such as Requirements Analysis, Design and Implementation and Maintenance in Agile environment.  ? Designed and developed the dynamic web application using HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, ECMAScript (ES6), JQuery, Node JS, Bootstrap, Angular 4.  ? Created Responsive Web Design using React JS, Ember JS, Bootstrap and CSS Media Queries.  ? Highly available and auto-scalable set of microservices with zero-downtime deployment, unified monitoring and logging (Docker, Azure, Jenkins)  ? Created micro services to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Implemented complex applications using NoSQL (MongoDB) to speed up the query for parts and java using Microsoft Azure.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume RESTful API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4.  ? Have used RXJS with Angular 4 to create Observables in implementing the various functionality and used NgRx to maintain the status of the application.  ? Involved in writing SQL queries & PL/SQL - Stored procedures, function, triggers, cursors, object types, Cursors, sequences, indexes etc.  ? Use agile development methodology. Day to day communication with onshore/offshore team members through mail, phone, and conference calls, for status update, resolving issues, understanding business requirements.  ? Used Git, Borland Star Team for the version control.  ? Handle auto deploys to QA Azure environments using Jenkins and Git Configurations on code pushes to various projects.  ? Used Jenkins for continuous integration and Maven for build process. Software Developer HCL America - Secaucus, NJ May 2018 to November 2018 Project: IDAA Test Groups    Responsibilities:  • Analyze existing applications and interact with all key stakeholders (business and technical) to understand UI requirements for modern applications  • Develop alternative design and solutions for new business processes and to refine the existing business process and flows.  • Design and implementation of application Components using Angular Architecture.  • Design next generation cross browser, cross platform (device) web applications using frontend tools and technologies (Angular, RxJS, JavaScript, HTML/CSS)  • Develops, codes, tests and debugs new highly complex software solutions.  • Provides direction to a project team; mentors them and monitors their progress and provides timely status updates to senior management.  • Perform Code review and create Unit testing, Integration testing, Automation testing for better performance.  • Analyses, debugs and/or assists in problem solving in both development and production environments.  • Documentation of solutions of critical issues resolutions, best practices to reuse to enhance the process and productivity of team.  • Responsible for Sprint deliverables. Software Developer HCL America - Secaucus, NJ April 2017 to September 2018 Project: Online Test Directory    Responsibilities:  • Instrumental for developing/Automation/Data Analytics for UI components for the Synxis Booking Engine (SBE).  • Expertise in Agile/SCRUM development methodology. Interacts with SCRUM master, Product owner daily. Participates in planning sessions to elicit requirements from the Client/Product Owner.  • Pre-production build, deployments support.  • Responsible for Sprint deliverables.  • Responsible for developing the UI components for the application using the Angular JavaScript.  • Responsible for handling state management using the redux architecture.  • Develops the components with integrating with ES6, ES7 framework.  • Responsible for troubleshooting the client and server-side rendering issues.  • Responsible for web pack configuration of the application.  • Develops, codes, tests and debugs new highly complex software solutions.  • Provides direction to a project team and mentors them and monitors their progress. Provides timely status updates to senior management.  • Analyses, debugs assist in problem solving in both development and production environments.  • Understands, interprets and translates business requirements into the necessary designs and documentation.  • Bug fixes and defect cleanup activities.  • Assures code quality and adherence to coding standards on projects, code reviews. Java Developer Yotta Systems INC - Lyndhurst, NJ August 2016 to March 2017 Project: National Test Directory.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Developed the UI using JavaScript, JSP, HTML, and CSS for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Developed backend business logic with Spring Framework and achieved asynchronous messaging with Java Messaging Services.  • Used Hibernate to store the persistent data as an Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool for communicating with database.  • Created REST based web services using JAX-RS.  • Utilize programming methodologies and languages and adhere to coding standards, procedures and techniques while contributing to the technical code documentation.  • Participate in design reviews and provide input to the design recommendations; incorporate security requirements into design; and provide input to information/data flow.  • Day to day communication with remote developers, through mail, phone, conference calls, for resolving issues, understanding business requirements. Java Developer Yotta Systems INC - Lyndhurst, NJ February 2015 to July 2016 Project: Test Change Automation.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed a prototype of the application and demonstrated to business users to verify the application functionality.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts 2.0 Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes.  • Developed JUnit Test cases for the system.  • Used Hibernate 3.3 for persistence management.  • Developed the User Interface using JSP/HTML and used CSS for style setting of the Web Pages.  • Developed JSP with Custom Tag Libraries for control of the business processes in the middle-tier and was involved in their integration.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate used HQL and SQL for querying databases. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Fairfield University - Fairfield, CT Skills VISUAL STUDIO, DOCKER, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, WEBPACK, JENKINS, JSON, SCRIPTING, SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT, ECLIPSE, JAVA, jQuery, STRUTS, CSS, TOMCAT, WEBLOGIC, SDLC, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, HTML 5 Additional Information Technical Profile:  Domain Technologies  Programming Languages JavaScript and it's frame works, Java  Front End HTML, CSS, SCSS, JSON, JQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2+, Node JS Other Libraries  SDLC Methodologies Waterfall, Agile Software Development  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Webpack, Jenkins  Java Frameworks SpringBoot, Struts  Application Servers Tomcat, WebLogic  Databases SQL Server, MYSQL, Oracle, MongoDB  IDE Eclipse, Web Strom, Visual Studio Code  SCM StarTeam, Git, GitHub, BitBucket  Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux  Containers, Monitoring and Deployments Docker, Jenkins, MS Azure, Shell Scripting, Kubernetes.