Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer Frisco, TX A skilled and certified Salesforce Administrator looking for an aspiring career with leading  organization to grow inherently with the growth of the organization. Trained Salesforce  Administration expert capable of working independently and as part of a diverse team to  customize Salesforce.com environments. Organized and logical professional able to quickly yet  concisely understand and achieve departmental and organizational objectives toward  development of data provision solutions. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Precept Management Consultancy, software arm of Menon & Pai Chartered Accountants February 2004 to August 2005 Project Name: Precision - Sales & Accounting  Organization: Precept Management Consultancy  Designation: Senior Software Developer  Duration: February 2004 to August 2005  Organization Profile  Precept Management Consultancy, software arm of Menon & Pai Chartered Accountants  and Accounting consultancy. Precept Management Consultants was established in 2004 by a group of professionals with the object of delivering cutting edge technology solutions to its clients.  Precept's software and technology-enabled business solutions has helped its clients create and sustain a competitive position in the dynamic marketplace in which they operate. Its methodology-  oriented and quality-focused approach in designing custom solutions for its clients has helped the company achieve a high level of implementation success and customer satisfaction. Additionally,  its process-oriented management of deliverables has helped it expedite project completion without compromising on quality.  The Organization has a history of developing appropriate IT Strategies and meeting aggressive  project deadlines, which, has enabled its customers to eliminate risk of additional overhead cost and time overruns.  Project Summary  Precision Diagnostics Pvt. Ltd. is a leading chain Diagnostic Centre with over 5 Labs in Chennai. The organization planned to develop an automated solution for the business to  streamline their existing process, across all locations. The project comprised of 9 modules and was developed with Visual Basic as front end and MS Access as its database. The objective of  the project was to record the transaction data, create and maintain doctor and patient records, create and manage diagnostic programs, discounts and billing, and to ease the hurdles of  accounting and daily and periodical reporting.  The modules included - Employee's Personnel & Managerial Database, Purchase and Purchase  Order, Sales and Sales Order, Issues, Employee Leave Card, Reports, Accounting, and Doctor and Customer Database. With a team of four developers, the project was successfully deployed  on the client's machine on the 1st of July 2005. My team consistently catered to the clients need  to implement an efficient front office system to record, track and control patient information, referrals from other doctors, patient treatment and progress as well as billing and collection - across multiple locations.  The application also provided comprehensive support for accounting and a full suite of diagnostic  reports. Intern Crompton Greaves India Limited December 2001 to May 2002 Hands-On Exposure  • Completed over 80 badges and 10 Trails on Salesforce Trailhead that includes the following projects:  o Embed Dashboards and Report Charts on Lightning Pages  o Evaluate Report Data with Formulas  o Improve Data Quality for a Recruiting App  o Build a Declarative Data Model for a Recruiting App  o Set Up Salesforce Knowledge  o Set Up Case Escalation and Entitlements  o Improve Data Quality for a Cleaning Supply App  o Build a Discount Approval Process  o Create Reports and Dashboards for Sales and Marketing Managers  o Import and Export with Data Management Tools  o Build a Community with Knowledge and Chat  o Customize a Sales Path for your Team  o Customize an Org to support a New Business Unit Education Bachelor of Arts in Economics University of Madras - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 1997 to May 2000 Skills Data cleaning, Sql, Object-oriented, Object-oriented programming, Maintenance, Training, Microsoft office, Best practices, Salesforce Admin, Salesforce Certifications/Licenses Salesforce.com Certified Administrator February 2019 Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/iqy-qw1cx-dlg-h Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Skills  • Good knowledge and hands-on skills to administer and support the Salesforce platform.  • Trained to support and assist users with best practices to improve and increase their  knowledge of Salesforce both in the Sales Cloud and Service Cloud.  • Performed data uploads, data maintenance, and data cleaning activities.  • Excellent knowledge in designing Custom Objects, creating Fields, Record Types, Report  Types, modifying Page Layouts, App Builder, Approval Processes, Reports and  Dashboards and other Salesforce concepts.  • Create and manage users, profiles, roles and permission sets in Salesforce.  • Sound knowledge in Microsoft Office Suite, SQL and Object-Oriented Programming.    Trainings and Certifications  • Earned certification in Salesforce Administrator profile (WI-19 Salesforce Administrator) -  Feb 2019.  • Underwent extensive hands-on training at Cloud Solutions, Chennai, India.