Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer at Applied Materials Round Rock, TX • Possess experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design and C# Development, skilled at progressing from problem statement to well documented designs.    • Demonstrated managerial skills and proficiency in working with teams overseas to maximize levels of productivity and forming cohesive team environments. Strong knowledge of SCRUM and agile methodologies. Work Experience Software Developer Applied Materials - Austin, TX February 2007 to Present Design and implement software features in C# .NET, interface with internal customers for requirements analysis, manage software teams, engage with test team to help them perform software tests on code, ensure adequate documentation, help troubleshoot customers with software issues (Customer training or bugs). Titanium 2011 to January 2011 January 2011)    Goal: To support Auto Tool identification, loading tool wafer and event data, provide "health status" for the Tools and migrate customers from old legacy product to new system.    Result: Tool Setup time reduced by 80%, one page top level snapshot of multiple tools for easy monitoring, migration of customers by loading tool data on the new system.    Implementation: o Auto Tool Identification feature to connect and query Tool Configuration from AMAT Tools. Used SECS GEM protocol to implement this functionality.  o Loading Tool Wafer and Non Wafer Data.  o Data Collection status feature for AMAT Tools.    • Project: E3- Silver (Release: September 2009)    Goal: To import tool configuration from legacy product, knowledge transfer and manage a team overseas for implantation and support.    Result: Successfully achieved importing tools from legacy product, mentored and managed a team in India to develop and maintain the product. Recognized as a resourceful contributor and acknowledged with increasing development and managing responsibilities.    Implementation: o Involved in requirement gathering and discussion with Customer and Development teams for finalizing E3 Titanium Tool Data Dictionary deliverables.  o Designed and implemented the Tool Data Dictionary Plug-in features to import Nexus Tool Configuration in E3 to support 200 mm AMAT tools on E3.  o Managed a group of developers overseas to implement the project deliverables in E3- Silver    • Project: Nexus - Armstrong (Release: May 2008)    Goal: Support creation of Bulk rules, implement offsets to these rules, performance analysis and comparison, create backup utility for metadata, product handoff and train team in Xian, China.    Results: Rule creation and setup time reduced by 70%. Customer paid $250K for metadata backup utility, did performance analysis between current and previous releases, conducted 6 three hour training sessions for a six member team in Xian, China.    Implementation: o Involved in requirement gathering and discussion with Customer and Development teams for finalizing Nexus Armstrong deliverables.  o Implemented the functionality of creating bulk Limit and WECO rules in Nexus to increase performance and save time.  o Implemented the functionality of Offset Management system in Nexus to apply offset calculation to rules to remove transient readings and improve data quality.  o Did Quality testing on Nexus Armstrong features and fixed issues.  o Created a Backup Utility to archive, store and manage data across different servers.  o Performed Nexus Build and installation testing.  o Did Performance Analysis and Comparison between Nexus 3.12 and Armstrong Releases.    • Project: Nexus 3.12 (Release: July 2007)  Goal: Provide scheduling mechanism to setup jobs, help with functional testing.    Result: Scheduling feature allows customer to schedule repetitive jobs, functional testing exposed critical bugs.    Implementation: o Implemented a scheduling functionality to aid user to run data mining reports at different scheduled times.  o Created, executed and documented 100 plus test plans. Education BE in Electronics University of Mumbai -Thadomal Shahani Engineering College - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2004 MS in Computer Science University of Missouri - Kansas City, KS Skills Languages: C# Web Technologies: HTML, ASP.NET, XML, JavaScript, WCF, SilverLight. Databases: Oracle 11g. Operating Systems: Windows Tools: Visual Studio.NET, Clear Case, Clear Quest, IIS, Expression Blend, VMware, VSphere, Rational Rose Architectures: Three-tier, Client-Server, SOA