Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Doral, FL • Having a good hands-on experience in object-oriented programming, developing, testing and debugging code, designing interfaces and administering systems.  • Quick in learning and master new technologies, successful working in both team and self-directed settings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Pinnacle Brocom Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra October 2016 to February 2017 MH  (5 months OCT-FEB) • Project: Jarvis - This project involved the development of adding new modules to the company's ERP system like sending SMS to clients, creating reports, adding new menu  options and enhancing existing functionalities. This requires a good understanding of business and domain including file relations.  • Enhancement: Pinnacle Contacts - This project involved redesigning the existing Contact  module with easy search criteria of client details with their stock exchange details. The  search involved accessing various data and effectively consolidating the results with efficiency in response time. Co-Founder Resolute Placement Consultancy - Mumbai, Maharashtra November 2013 to November 2015 MH  • Primarily responsible for connecting and building long term relationships  with various companies needing IT and Commerce background  candidates.  • Identifying a suitable candidate as per the company's requirements and shortlisting for interviews.  • Analyzing and shortlisting resumes as per requirements. Software Developer Pinnacle Brocom Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra November 2012 to November 2013 MH  • Project: Jarvis - This project involved major development and enhancement of the company's ERP system by adding functionalities like sending an email, creating  reports, adding various menu options. Developing new functionality needed a good  understanding or business and domain including file relations.  • Project: Pinnacle Contacts - This project involved in setting up detail search by fetching clients contact details along with their stock exchange details when the user  searches for a client. Software Faculty NIIT Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2011 to November 2012 Mumbai, MH    • Primarily responsible for conducting lectures in above-mentioned Technology, Programming Languages and Database.  • Conducting and evaluating module tests.  • Mentoring students in projects based on .Net  • Programming Language: C, C++, C#, ADO .NET, XML, HTML  • Database Language: SQL, Oracle Education Diploma in Software Engineering in Software Engineering NIIT Ltd. - 3 years 2010 to March 2013 Bachelor of Commerce in Commerce NIIT - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2008 to March 2011 Skills C#, Microsoft SQL Server, Ado .net, DOT NET Certifications/Licenses Award of Achievement in successfully completing Oracle Database 10g: ·        Introduction to SQL Fundamentals   ·        PL/SQL Fundamentals     As part of Oracle  Workforce Development Program