Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - United Health Group • Around 8+ years of IT experience in system analysis, design, development, testing using Microsoft Technologies.  • Experience in adopting structured development process and has delivered systems on time by meeting the client's expectations.  • An excellent team player, problem solver and a quick learner of new technologies.  • Experience in development of Web-based application using Asp.net, Asp.net MVC, jQuery, Angular & Web API.  • Knowledge on database like SqlServer  • Good communication and interpersonal skills.  • Experience and thorough understanding of Software Development Life Cycle  (SDLC)methodologies - Agile(Scrum) Work Experience Developer United Health Group January 2018 to Present is having multiple engagement's which are designed for providing better health care services to southern California. Main motive of this program is to avoid the urgent care service utilization of a member as it is very expensive. Virtual urgent care is utilized by the Nurse practitioners or PCP who will provide virtual assistance by giving telemedicine or advice/suggestion or wellness programs to avoid the urgent care services and better health.  This is a responsive web application and is compatible with mobile, tablets and web browsers.  Responsibilities:    • Understanding the User Stories  • Involved Sprint planning and estimation  • Involved in daily scrum calls to communicate the status and to discuss if any gaps found with onshore team  • Involved in conducting unit testing and code review  • Involved in Analysis, development, designing and bug fixing.    Project2: Business Operations Support System  Clients: UHG USA  Software / Tools: Visual Studio 2013, Asp.net MVC, C#, Telerik, Kendo UI, Linq, N-Hibernate, Web API, SOAPUI, DB Visualizer Hyderabad as Senior Software Engineer United Health Group - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN December 2010 to Present Achievements:  Received UHG Sustaining edge Award twice for my best contribution in the year of 2018 and 2017.  Received UHG most prestigious Award MAKE IT Happen for my best contribution in the year of 2018. Developer United Health Group March 2016 to December 2017 The project involves building web applications that would serve as an upstream 'source of truth' repository for all the downstream applications within the Eligibility Management framework. BOSS (Business Operations Support System) is a business initiative to establish a central repository to serve as the "source of truth" system for Customer (that we are serving), Product (that we have developed) and Service Agreement (that we have sold to customer). BOSS will result in streamlining the end -to -end business process, simplifying business communication, driving operational consistency and tracking the commitments to customers. It provides Better understand product offerings and define operational configurations, recognize and understand our customers and identify up-sell opportunities  Responsibilities:    • Understanding the User Stories  • Involved Sprint planning and estimation  • Involved in daily scrum calls to communicate the status and to discuss if any gaps found with onshore team  • Involved in conducting unit testing and code review  • Involved in Analysis, development, designing and bug fixing.    Project3: Gaps in Care  Clients: UHG USA  Software / Tools: Visual Studio 2013, Web API, Angular 6, SQL Server 2008,  Visual Code, Entity Frame Work. Developer United Health Group September 2014 to February 2016 The Gaps In Care will be an application used by the Optum Health Delivery Team to assist consumers by providing information about the gaps for a member. Optum Health performs the health checkups programs on regular intervals and encourages the users to attend the program by offering the incentives. The Gaps In Care will helps to identify the gaps for a member to provide the incentives for the programs which member as attended. These incentives will be varying based on the program and the state.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the User Stories  • Involved Sprint planning and estimation  • Involved in daily scrum calls to communicate the status and to discuss if any gaps found with onshore team  • Involved in conducting unit testing and code review  • Involved in Analysis, development, designing and bug fixing.    Project4: OLS-ATLAS  Clients: UHG USA  Software / Tools: MS Visual Studio 2010, Asp.net, C#, J Query, LINQ, Entity Framework, WCF, SQL Server 2008 Developer United Health Group October 2012 to August 2014 The Gaps In Care will be an application used by the Optum Health Delivery Team to assist consumers by providing information about the gaps for a member. Optum Health performs the health checkups programs on regular intervals and encourages the users to attend the program by offering the incentives. The Gaps in Care will helps to identify the gaps for a member to provide the incentives for the programs which member as attended. These incentives will be varying based on the program and the state.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the User Stories  • Involved Sprint planning and estimation  • Involved in daily scrum calls to communicate the status and to discuss if any gaps found with onshore team  • Involved in conducting unit testing and code review  • Involved in Analysis, development, designing and bug fixing.    Project5: Common Work Queue (CWQ)  Clients: UHG USA  Software / Tools: MS Visual Studio 2010, Asp.net, C#, J Query, MVP, Entity Framework, SQL Server Developer February 2010 to September 2012 The Common Work Queue (CWQ) project is a web based preventive health care application that issued for tracking, monitoring, and working of member cases, programs, or activities. The motive of Application is to maintain health standards by Finding opportunities, providing Programs and Assigning Activities between provider and member proactively. This ultimately results in improving health standards minimize no of claims, which is cost saving for both member and company.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the User Stories  • Involved Sprint planning and estimation  • Involved in daily scrum calls to communicate the status and to discuss if any gaps found with onshore team  • Involved in conducting unit testing and code review  • Involved in Analysis, development, designing and bug fixing. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications SriIndu Institute of Technology - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2007 to 2010 Bachelor of Science Degree College - Nalanda, BIHAR, IN 2003 to 2006 Krishnaveni Junior College Vijayawada - Vijayawada, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2001 to 2003 Class X SVR High School Vijayawada - Vijayawada, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2000 to 2001 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: C++, C#, VB.NET  Application/Web servers: Internet Information Server 7.0/6.0  Database: MS SQL Server  Web Technologies: ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, WEB API, ADO.Net  Reports: Crystal reports XI  Scripting: JQuery, Java script, Angular JS  Development Tools: Visual Studio, VS Code, Postman, fiddler2, SOAP UI  Code Repository: TFS, SVN