Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Indeed Seattle, WA j j  Jacksonville, FL  Hello ??????????????   I will display & $ £ ¢ ¥ © © ® ? ? ? ? ? ? ? • • ? ? † † [ ] \ " ' *     I will display €     I will display €     I will display €     market capitalization of ?1.31 trillion (US$18 billion) (as on March 31, 2018)   ? [CV]   ? 06   Learned from owner/operator with 30 ? years experience in the field.   Character Value (ud83c)     Stand ? and sitdown     characterValue = ud83d   Lead Cashier with excellent Customer service & with a Smile???.     characterValue = ud83e   Bac +9???????? in Tout?   La vie??? - Anderlecht     characterValue =udb40   South Africa ??   ? ?   ????? ??????:     I am a hard-working and determined professional seeking an opportunity to succeed in a dynamic company such as yours. I am confident that my knowledge, passion, ability and experience allow me to deliver successful results for any company in a range of administrative positions     ?????? ????? ?? ?? ????????? ?? ??? ??????:   • an aptitude for identifying and resolving problems efficiently   • able to effectively manage my time through careful planning and organization of work activities   • excellent communication skills that result in positive interpersonal relationships   • a track record of meeting deadlines and producing accurate work of a high standard   • the capacity to learn and and apply new information quickly and accurately   • strong computer skills     I am convinced that I can be an asset in any position requiring hard work, enthusiasm and reliability and I look forward to hearing from you in the near future.     The enclosed resume expands on my qualifications and experience.     Thank you for your time and consideration.     ? budgeting displays   ? checkbook registers   ? enrollment records   ? inventories   ? coded surveys   ? field and laboratory research data   ? financial and accounting applications. Work Experience Software Engineer Indeed - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2016 to Present • Designed and developed feedback and performance management tools for Indeed HR.  • Improved response time of MARS tool used by client team by 200% by refactoring queries and scaling the database.  • Designed a tool which integrates JIRA and LeanKit which is used for visualization of Kanban boards  across projects. Software Developer Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2011 to November 2012 Developed request assignment system with load balancing feature for auto assignment of owners  based on regions.  • Worked on Hotel merging and unmerging screens for maintaining unique hotels from different  vendors by utilizing levenstein distance as measure to identify similar hotels.  • Worked on Scraping, CSS Sprites, Table header sorting, User feedbacks, sitemap.xml, Payments  screen, Exotel API Integration, Wunderground API integration. Associate Technology L1 Sapient Corporation - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2010 to October 2011 • Operated Jmeter, Jprofiler and Load Runner to ensure performance of www.singaporeair.com  • Deployed JS/CSS minification, HTTP header caching and GZIP content encoding and reduced page  load time of site by factor of 50%. Education M.Tech in Computer in science and Engineering in Computer Indian Institute of Technology July 2013 to April 2016 B.Tech in Computer in science and Engineering. in science and Engineering Kakatiya Institute of Technology July 2006 to April 2010 Skills C++, Html, Wordpress, Excel Additional Information Skills    C++ (Less than 1 year), Wordpress (3 years), html, Excel (10+ years)