Developer III <span class="hl">Developer</span> III Developer III Work Experience Developer III Whiting Petroleum Inc January 2019 to August 2019 Senior level developer updating/upgrading and greenfield development of integration, line-of-business, and management applications. Upgraded Workday to Active Directory integration taking advantage of new Workday API. Developed unit and integration tests for existing applications and as part of new greenfield development. Worked with Manager of Development and another senior developer on design and architecture of new multiple source/target integration hub. Software and patterns include C#, Enterprise Framework, MVC, Web API, REST, MS SQL Server. Used TFS for source control. Developer II Office of Information Technology February 2018 to September 2018 Lead a team developing an internal year-end income reconciliation application for state-wide use. I designed the application using C#, MVC, ASP.NET Core 2.0+, ASP.NET Core Identity Framework, Entity Framework Core, and MySQL. I deployed the application onto the Google Cloud Platform. I used Entity Framework to do database first development complying with 2nd normal form standard, scaffold the initial database classes, and to modify the database during development. The application substantially reduced the number of printed reports, and the time needed to review intermediate steps. Contractor 1031 LLC December 2015 to February 2018 Clients included:  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City  I developed service controllers, in C#, to communicate with PeopleSoft web-services. Application uses MS Web API 2.2, JSON, and SOAP messaging. Also developed controllers, in C#, to communicate with Exchange Server 2016. All controllers were developed using REST, the Web API, ASP.NET, and JavaScript. Services required for new Outlook add-in for managing out of office requests.  ACCRUIT, 1031 LLC.  Redesigned/refactored automated email system in Accruit's next generation, flagship, SaaS web-application. Developed stored procedures and LINQ queries to increase database performance. The system, written in C#, automatically notifies users and customer service agents, of significant events in the processing of IRS 1031 like-kind exchanges. I encapsulated the email function, using the Factory Pattern, so that client code only needs to call the service with the type of email to be sent. I also modified front-end code to use the notification service. Along with one other, I setup and published test application to Azure. I made extensive use of SpecFlow and Selenium for BDD testing of new system. I also developed unit tests, and included both BDD and unit tests in continuous integration process. Used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for the notification email page.  Jefferson County, CO  Developed meta-data records management reporting web-site for county government in Colorado. I used C#, REST, Web API, Oracle, SQL Server, and SSRS, as well as other development technologies such as Ninject for IoC, and NHibernate for ORM. Programmer III TransFirst, LLC November 2014 to November 2015 Using C#, WCF, Service Stack, ASP, JavaScript, and other technologies, I upgraded and maintained production software systems for nation-wide credit card processing company. Used NHibernate to map database values to business objects and tuned LINQ queries to enhance performance. Applications included multiple systems for boarding new merchants, facilitating payments and credits between merchants and banks, and billing merchants for services. I modified major sales and on-boarding application to accommodate EMV capable credit card readers and pin pads. Consulting Software Engineer Xavient Information Systems March 2014 to November 2014 Development of ASP/.NET export legal compliance web application. I designed and developed all non-SharePoint middle-ware in C# and SQL Server database CRUD operations. Used query plans and wrote C# LINQ queries to improve database performance. I also developed and enhanced SQL Server tables supporting the application. Technologies included Entity Framework, C# 4, .NET 4.5, and ASP, HTML, and CSS. Software Engineer III SNL Financial May 2013 to November 2013 Developed unit tests verifying COM and C++ components in a large C#, MVC, MS Office integration application. Use XML command file to invoke C++ data/value providers so as to provide new functionality without releasing new client software. Contract Software Engineer Fahrenheit IT, ProBuild August 2012 to November 2012 Analyze and evaluate pilot-scale SharePoint application for scalability, robustness, and ease of maintenance. SharePoint back-end served both iPad, and Web user interfaces. Outlined and suggested short-term modifications to improve stability and maintainability; and long-term architecting and re-engineering options that included expansion of the SharePoint infrastructure, replacing SharePoint with a standard RDMS, and porting the application to the company's standard Java platform. Debugged and rewrote sections of code to correct problems that arose during transition of the application from prototyping at parent company to production at subsidiary company. Sr. Software Developer IV Rivet Software August 2011 to June 2012 Upgrade, maintain, debug, and document complex XBRL application using VSTO, C#, .NET, MVC v.3, SharePoint, ASP.NET, HTML, CSS and other state-of-the-art technologies. Spike-development prototyping complex inter-application communication between Excel and MS Word. Developed algorithms for creating fiscal calendars and performing calendar calculations. Began an initiative to update and reorganize code-base using design patterns, and software engineering best practices.    Highest Level of Education: Education Juris Doctor Washington College of Law, American University - Washington, DC Masters in Environmental Administration University of California - Riverside, CA BS in Biology University of Southern California - Los Angeles, CA Additional Information • 20+ years of experience developing database, desktop, and web applications in the legal, insurance, medical, pharmaceutical, and other industries.  • Expert use of state-of-the-art technology to solve real-world problems affecting productivity, process efficiency, user/customer satisfaction, and ultimately, profits.  • Always focused on developing robust, scalable, modular applications that are easy to test, maintain and extend.  • Exceptional oral and written communications skills, with proven ability to explain complex technical issues to management, clients, and users. Published author and experienced public speaker, able to obtain consensus among diverse stake-holders.  Programming: C#, SQL, T-SQL, ASP.NET Core v.2.0+, ASP.NET, Web Forms, Web Pages, XML, AJAX, JSON, VSTO, VB.NET, VBScript. All development done with unit testing, BDD, and TDD. Experienced in Agile process.  Databases: MS SQL Server, MySQL, Maria DB. Also experienced in using SQL Server CLR to develop stored procedures and user defined functions in C#.  Development Tools: MS Visual Studio, Eclipse, Mono-Develop, Toad, MS SQL Server Management Studio, MySQL Workbench, Ninject, NHibernate, Entity Framework, and other ORM tools.  Platforms: Win 7 - 10, Linux.