Senior Mule ESB Developer Senior Mule ESB <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Mule ESB Developer - T-Mobile Bellevue, WA ? Over 8+ years of experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and development of Web - based Client-Server applications with over 4 years of experience in Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) projects using Mulesoft.  ? Mule ESB experience with implementing service-oriented architecture (SOA) and enterprise application integration (EAI) using Mule Server 3.x.  ? Hands on experience in using Software development methodologies Agile Methodology, Scrum and Waterfall software development processes.  ? Experience in building complex Mule Flows/ Error Handling strategies/reprocessing. Worked with Message Filters, Message Translators, Content enricher, Scatter-gather and Mule Transaction Integration patterns.  ? Hands on experience in Mule Expression Language(MEL) - to access and evaluate the data in the payload, properties and variables of a Mule message.  ? Experience in configuring APIs, proxy endpoints, API Portals and API analytics based on technical specifications with MuleSoft API manager.  ? Created Mule ESB based tooling suite for handling message transitioning, validation, enrichment and routing to upstream and downstream entity data consumers.  ? Developed Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous mule flows. Expertise in Unit testing using JUnit & Mockito, Integration testing.  ? Extensively worked on Any Point Studio and Mule Integration Platform and used it tointerface application services by utilizing message routing, data transformation andservice creation utilities.  ? Participated in deployment of Mule ESB applications using Cloud Hub and Strongexperience in Integration using Mule ESB in integrating various third-party solutions.  ? Hands on experience in Mule Soft. Expression Language(MEL) to access payload data,properties and variable of Mule Message Flow.  ? Design (OOD) using UML and SDLC of distributed applications. Hugely experienced inusing Mule Soft Studio that integrates APIs, databases and SaaS applications and.  ? Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB. Have anexperience working MULE API manager and RAML.  ? Designed and developed Mule ESB projects using various connectors like Salesforce, File, Database, JMS, SMTP, Transformers, and Data weave for integrating various applications which are on-premises and hosted on cloud using synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  ? Developed Mule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database from Active MQ topics and queues and some transformations at the integration layer.  ? Developed an Integration Component with third party applications using MuleSoft ESB and Experience in integrating on premise and Cloud hub applications like SAP, Salesforce (SFDC), and Workday Intact using Mule ESB.  ? Experience in using Git, ANT and Maven scripts for building & deploying application in web/App servers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Mule ESB Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Followed the guidelines of agile methodologies and used JIRA for project management.  ? Worked closely with functional leads/PMs to understand the partner integration requirements.  ? Worked on preparing the Technical Specification Documents(TSDs) for all the service that are to be  ? Implemented and worked with MMC (Mule Management Console) and Enterprise release capabilities.  ? Structured Mule application for the registration process and pushed the registrant details to Salesforce and Database and Configured the automation tool Jenkins for Continuous Integration.  ? Integrated SOAP and REST API with Mule ESB and performed transformations, used JAX-WS and  ? JAX-RS API to extract data from SOAP and REST request.  ? Designed and Deployed the Mule APIS using RAML and configured Input schemas and Response Schemas using traits and Schemas.  ? Worked on migrating mule application to higher versions also worked on migrating deprecated data mapper code to data weave  ? Helped develop a Template project which acted as starting point for other mule APIs.  ? Used RAML to design the API contract and API Kit for generating the flows out of RAML.  ? Deployed the application in the Cloud and Fixed the issues in QA environment. Applied OAuth, Transaction policies to the API in the Cloud Environment using APM.  ? Used Basic and OAuth Authentication mechanisms to consume REST API's and Orchestration.  ? Orchestrated, full registration process flow of web application and transferred the registrant detailssalesforce and Database and used message enricher scope to check for duplicate data.  ? Used Pole scope to poll the database and used Watermark feature to prevent the processing of duplicate data.  ? Used Data Weave (Transform Message) and coded data transformation logic according to the requirements and transformed the messages to different formats and combined two payloads of JSON format, from two different sources using primary key in Data Weave.  ? Involved in deploying applications into MuleSoft Cloud Hub, On- Premise and Hybrid.  ? Developed SOAP based Web services using WSDL and consumed those, SOAP based WSDL's in flowusing Web Service Consumer and used MUnit to validate mule flows.  ? Implemented choice, global, custom error handling mechanisms based on the business requirement in Anypoint Studio.  ? Used both SOAP UI and POSTMAN testing tools for testing the Web services developed using SOAP and RESTful respectively.  ? Writing MUnit Test cases to validate Mule flows  ? Performed the automatic deployment of the projects by using Maven builds.  Environment: Mulesoft ESB, Any point studio, MMC, SOAP, REST, SoapUI, Salesforce, Clodhub, Toad,Git Hub, RAML, MUnit, Jenkins, Jira, Bitbucket. Senior Mulesoft Integration Developer UPS - Wayne, NJ January 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Agile-Scrum methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and sprint planning.  ? Closely worked with client in order to perform requirement analysis, design and the implementation.  ? Used AJAX calls and JSON responses to populate values on various UI components.  ? Used Dojo to develop custom dojo widgets for Color chooser and others.  ? Used Dojo Widget Library Dijit like Tree, Back button, Calendar, List box, Validation text box, Text area, to create form, validation and for specialized input.  ? Done with logging, exception handling and transaction management using Spring AOP.  ? Consumed web services and using CXF API to build client jars. Coordinated with services team to produce a valid service response meeting business and application needs.  ? Used IText API to fill form fields and merge pdf documents dynamically.  ? Implementation of Data Transformation using XSLT & Data Mapper, Routing, Schema and Data Validation  ? Good hands on experience using mule connectors like DB, FTP, FILE, SFTP, Salesforce, Workday etc as a part of integration usage.  ? Integration of Mule ESB system while utilizing Active MQ, Http, File system and SFTP transports.  ? Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third-party system and the end system.  ? Designed and developed several mediation flows of variety use cases using the MuleSoft Any point Studio of Mule ESB.  ? Created SOAP and REST based service interfaces using Mule ESB Any point Platform and delivered fast, reliable and scalable integration API codes.  ? Developed Rest web services involving REST and SOAP based on SOA and conducted testing using ARC tool and SOAP UI and implemented Data weave and re-sequencer using Mule ESB.  ? Migrated deprecated Data Mapper mapping to Data Weave in MULE ESB.  ? Transformations, Routing, and messaging using ActiveMQ and JMS.  ? Involved in connecting different technologies by using Mule ESB successfully.  ? Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing.  ? Created mule flows for JAX-WS and JAX-RS web services.  ? Used MMC (mule management console to monitor the request and response payload). Had an experience working MULE API manager and RAML.  ? Involved in exception handling & testing using SOAP UI and Security of Mule endpoint through WSSR.  ? Have written MUnit test cases to for mule flows to unit testing.  ? Involved in peer & lead level design &code reviews and Code verification with each developer to make sure that we follow standards.  ? Implemented error handling by using exception strategies and generated exception alerts in cloud hub.  ? Experience in deploying/managing Mule flows to Cloudhub.  ? Deployed applications into Cloud Hub using Continues Integration.  ? Working with the middleware team and DBAs regarding the database issues and code deployments.  ? Identified check style, PMD and Find bugs and fixed them.  ? Resolving spring framework artifacts and code build & deployment via Maven.  Environment: Anypoint Studio, Mule ESB, Mule Management Console, RAML, ActiveMQ, Apache-Maven, Nexus, FileZilla, Putty, Salesforce, GIT, Oracle, JIRA, Confluence. Mule ESB Developer Staples - Framingham, MA September 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Followed the guidelines of Agile methodologies of SDLC for project management. Involved in requirements gathering, analysis of existing Design Documents, planning, Development and Testing of the application.  ? Involved in complete life cycle development using Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  ? Participated in scrum meetings with various teams to coordinate project developments and issues.  ? Created Mule flows using DB Connectors and SFDC, Using SFDC connectors to upsert data into SFDC.  ? Experience with Mule API Gateway and Mule APM.  ? Worked with Mule Any point API Platform on designing the RAML for implementing REST API's and used API Gateway as a proxy service.  ? Implemented Security Mechanisms like Security Certificates, Key Exchange, Encryption, Description, encoding and decoding  ? Exposed RESTful web services in Mule and invoked them using Postman.  ? Consumed SOAP Web Services using WSDL Files and transformed them into appropriate format.  ? Experience with Any Point Partner Manager(APM) to Configure Trading Partners & Monitor B2B Transactions.  ? Created Mule ESB flows using Any point Studio, performed payload transformation & developed middleware frameworks for routing the messages to appropriate systems.  ? Used Data Weave extensively to do data transformations along with custom Java Classes.  ? Create batch processing for performing ETL operations from SFDC to downstream systems.  ? Used ActiveMQ for messaging service in the applications.  ? Integration of Mule ESB system while utilizing MQ Series, Http, File system and SFTP transports.  ? Used Data Base Connectors to connect with MS-Access using Mule ESB.  ? Created flows to perform CRUD operations on MS-Access.  ? Used MULE Batch Processing to process records from Database.  ? Utilized various connectors such as FTP, HTTP, File, SMTP, SFTP, Servlet, Quartz, and Database in different workflows.  ? Implemented choice, global, custom exception handling mechanisms based on the business requirement in Mule ESB.  ? Worked on various Mule connectors / adapters, developing API, APM and developing services on CloudHub.  ? Utilized Cloud Formation by creating DevOps processes for consistent and reliable deployment methodology.  ? Extensively used Mule Debugger to debug the XML Flows and wrote Munit Test Cases using features like mocking, verify call, and assert conditions based different sets of data.  ? Migrated Existing Java Code implemented using Spring Controllers into Mule Flows to be invoked by the UI.  ? Used Maven for Building, Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Development.  Environment: Mule soft Any Point Studio, Cloud hub, Any Point Platform, RAML, Connectors, APIKIT Router, Data mapper, Data weave, Sales Force, Windows 2003, SQL and MSSQL. Software Developer Virinchi Limited July 2012 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the analysis, design, and development phase of the application.  ? Involved in the design and development of the entire application  ? The entire web application was developed in J2EE using the Spring MVC based architecture.  ? Annotated IoC and XML IoC  ? Used Data Access Object (DAO) pattern to introduce an abstraction layer between the business logic tier and the persistent storage tier  ? Used Spring Core for middle tier development to achieve inversion of control.  ? Fully understand the Spring AOP  ? Developed the presentation layer using JSP and servlets.  ? Used Apache Log4J for logging purposes.  ? Implemented Stored Procedures and triggers using PL/SQL in order to calculate and update the tables in Oracle database to implement business logic.  ? Involved in designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML and JSP.  ? Interfaced with the Oracle back-end using Spring Framework and XML files.  ? Involved in providing testing support and fixing issues for many modules in the application.  Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, JBoss, Maven, Eclipse, AJAX, EXTJS, JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, XML, Servlets, Design Patterns, Web Services. Software Developer SONATA January 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering business requirements, review the requirements and converting them to detailed design documents and clarification documents.  ? Developed UI and backend applications using Spring, Hibernate, Java, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and AJAX.  ? Implemented JSP, Struts Tag Libraries, JavaScript and CSS for developing User for creating/generating Hibernate classes and configuration XML's and to also manage CRUD operations (insert, update, and delete).  ? Configured Java Messaging Services (JMS) on Web logic Server using Eclipse IDE  ? Used Web Services to get price from external Business Entities.  ? Consumed Web Services as a gateway for the payment through the third-party.  ? Developed Web Services using SOA, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-WS, JAX-RPC programming models.  ? Responsible for integration of different modules.  ? Implementing the rules using drools.  ? Created JUnit test cases, and Development of JUnit classes.  ? Configured log4j to enable/disable logging in application.  ? Developed ANT script to build .war and. ear files for the application.  ? Involved in Code Reviews of other modules, documents, test cases.  ? Wrote UNIXShell scripts and used UNIX environment to deploy the application.  ? Responsible in coordination with offshore team, attending daily and weekly scrum meetings to update the work status, issues clarifications etc.  Environment: JDK 1.6, Core Java, J2EE, JDeveloper, Spring, Hibernate, Drools, WebLogic Server, Webservices, JMS, PL/SQL, SQL Developer, XML HTML, JavaScript, SVN, ANT, Log4j, JUnit, JBoss, Oracle, Windows XP and Unix. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (6 years), CSS (4 years), DHTML (4 years), HTML (4 years), J2EE (4 years), Java (5 years), JAX (3 years), JAX-RPC (1 year), JAX-WS (3 years), JSP (4 years), middleware (2 years), Oracle (6 years), PL/SQL (4 years), SOAP (5 years), SQL (5 years), testing (6 years), unit testing. (1 year), Web services (8 years), XML (5 years), XSLT (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Middleware: Mule ESB, Mule Connectors, Cloud Hub,Anypoint Studio,RAML  Web technologies: HTML, DHTML, CSS, JSP, AJAX, Java Script  Java & J2EE: CoreJava, Collections,Exceptionhandling,IO,MultiThreading,Generics, Annotations, Applets/Swings, JDBC  Web/application Servers: Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere  Data Bases: Oracle, DB2, MS SQL - SQL & PL/SQL  XML Technologies: XML, DTD, XSD, JAXP(DOM & SAX), JAXB, XSLT  Web Services: JAX-RPC/JAX-WS, Axis2, SOAP, WSDL, CXF  Design Tools: Microsoft Visio, Rational Rose  Unit Testing: MUnit, JUnit, Mockito