Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> -  • 3.5+ Years of overall IT experience as a JAVA/J2EE developer  • Currently Working as Professional 1 Product developer in DXC Technology  • Good technical and functional knowledge of software development  • Have good knowledge and experience in working with layered architectures and  enterprise applications  • Familiar with Agile Methodology Work Experience Software Developer DXC Technology April 2018 to Present Project:  • New Business Accelerator (NBA) Client: AXA-US    • New Business Accelerator is a DXC product offering for insurance organizations to streamline the new business process of insurance.  • Application is built with J2EE, java 1.7, WAS 8.5 and oracle 10g as database. Interactions with other systems involve SOAP and Restful API's.  • Key Responsibilities:  • Currently working on Underwriting rules in nbA, which helps underwriter to perform final actions on the insurance policy. These rules are to assist  underwriters for analyzing the risk of Life Insurance policy and to reduce  manual efforts.  • Developed Restful API to be consumed by other applications to extract the data from nbA.  • Developed new screens in application to speed the underwriting process, which in-tern reduces the turnaround time for the case.  • Developed separate window to interact with MIB using SOAP API which is used to get MIB codes to faster the underwriting process. Billing and Admin application Worldpay India pvt. ltd August 2016 to April 2018 This application is use for providing service to merchant stores. In this application  we perform Customer registration, agent registration, maintain terminal details,  maintain bank details, maintain product plan details, customer order details of product plan. We can view reports of merchant registration, partner registration,  terminal registration etc.  • This tool is used to fetch all the transactions performed by store/Terminal for the period of time with various criterias. Java Developer Aartek Software Solutions Pvt. Ltd July 2015 to July 2016 Duration: 5th July 2015 to 28th July 2016    Project:  • Teach For America  • Designation: Java Developer Education Bachelor of Engineer Rajiv Gandhi college of Engineering - Chandrapur, Nagpur, IN 2016 HSC Chintamani college Kalamb Dist Yavatmal - Chintamani, KARNATAKA, IN 2010 SSC Samyak Highschool shirpur dist Wardha - Wardha, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2008 Skills Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Springboot, hibernate, Jsp, Servlets, Javascript, Html, Css (3 years) Additional Information Technical Proficiency: -    • Programming Languages -- JAVA, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring boot, Hibernate, HTML,  CSS, Javascript, Restful Webservices, GIT  • Softwares - Hadoop, Pig, Hive  • Database - Oracle 11g, HBase, MySQL  • Tools - Eclipse, Jira, Visual studio (Agile tool), Jenkins, Sqoop, flume.  • Operating Systems - Windows 7/10, Linux    • Technologies: Core Java, JSP, Hibernate, Spring, Restful webservice, MySQL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS.    • TFA is a web based application which has various functions like Registration, login,  Region finding, Region assignment and donate for charity, Hiring appropriate  graduates as per requirement. It is a non-profit organization whose stated mission is  to "enlist, develop, and mobilize as many as possible of nation's most promising  future leaders to grow and strengthen the movement for educational equity and  excellence.