Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer Overall around 7 years of experience in the IT Industry    ? Strong analytical skills and excellent team player  ? Capable of leading teams and delivering within timelines  ? Handled production support activities  ? Sound technical knowledge and always ready provide technical assistance in the unit Work Experience Senior Software Engineer DST Worldwide Services Ltd October 2015 to October 2018 From: Oct'15 - To: Oct'18    Project Name Bluedoor  Technology C#, ASP.NET, WCF, VB.NET, SQL, Jira, Confluence  Duration 3 years  Role Senior Software Engineer Team Size >50  Responsibilities:    ? Lead and successfully executed new initiative for agile projects  ? Timely delivery of all tasks  ? Proactively fixed issues  ? Experience in knowledge transition to many team members  ? Prepared several documentation that would aid the team members in future  ? Received appreciations for taking responsibilities in priority issues and able to identify the issues quickly  ? Provides support to team members in resolving the issues    Project Description:  Bluedoor is an integrated wealth management system which manages the full investor lifecycle. It is an online and exception based administrative module which provides following transactions:  ? Handling new member/application  ? Investment choice  ? Contributions  ? Benefit Payments  ? Rollover between institutions  ? Insurance, fees, statement production Application Developer Infosys Ltd July 2011 to October 2015 From: Jul'11 - Oct'15    Project Name Allstate- EPCS  Client Name Allstate  Technology C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, WCF, SOAPUI, Javascript, SQL Server, Oracle 11g, CSS  Duration 4.5 years  Tools  Took responsibility of proactively enhancing reporting tool and added several features to aide production support activities    Role Application Developer Team Size 5  Responsibilities:  ? Monitor production logs on daily basis and proactively report errors  ? Takes responsibilities and ensures all the activities assigned to the team is completed  ? Experience in coordinating with development teams, testing team and third party vendors, holding meetings and reporting the updates.  ? Conducted Knowledge Transition (KT) sessions to team members.  ? Possess good innovative professional skills like Ability to Identify, Analyze and Solve Problems, Decision Making, Leadership Quality.  ? Possess excellent verbal communication, analytical & interpersonal skills.  ? Preparing Daily status report    Project Description:  Allstate insurance provides various applications to customers or agents to make payments.  EPCS acronym for Enterprise Payment Card Solutions is an application that was brought into existence to adhere to PCI compliance. As per PCI(Payment Card Industry), merchants should not be storing card numbers at their end. EPCS is used by around 55 applications of Allstate that acts as an interface. EPCS provides an user interface to enter the card details. With these card details, EPCS creates a profile at ChasPaymentech and this profile id(also called as token id) will be used to make the payment Application Developer Allstate 2010 to 2010 Technology C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, WCF, SOAPUI, Javascript, SQL Server, CSS  Duration 2.5 years  Tools Developed IPS Reporting Tool Developed IPS Trend Analysis Tool Developed IPS Utility Tool  Role Application Developer Team Size 10  Responsibilities:    ? Monitoring EOD cycle and running reports.  ? Performed Monitoring the Job Runs of various regions at regularly scheduled time as per UST time zones.  ? Notifying and updating the discrepancies occurred in the flow of the cycle to the Backend team  ? Preparing Daily status report.  ? Prepared presentations and held sessions with client on the application and was able to answer all the questions with confidence  ? Experience in knowledge transition to many team members  ? Coordinating with different applications team and quick turnaround time on any incidents received  ? Prepared several documentation that would aid the team members in future  ? Received appreciations for taking responsibilities in priority issues and able to identify the issues quickly  ? Was the first one in the offshore team to take responsibility of release management and involve in deployment calls  ? Takes life cycle management activities  ? Provides support to team members in resolving the issues  ? Takes responsibilities in preparing reports for client meetings    Project Description:  Integrated Payment system is an interface provided to Agents, CSRs or CIPs to make credit card or check payments. It also provides option for recurring payments. It also has around 40 services that are leveraged by various other applications to retrieve policy information, billing information, make payment or to enroll into recurring payment system Education B.E in CSE SHREE DEVI INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN June 2011 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems Windows10 and Windows7  Languages C, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, VB.NET  Database SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g  Other Tools ServiceNow, HP Quality Centre, AS400, DynaTrace, SOAPUI, Jeera, Confluence  Domain Insurance and Finance