Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - Toyota Los Angeles, CA • 7+ years of experience in Java and Android application development.  • Experience in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process: requirements gathering and analyses, development, testing, support and other project management activities.  • Involved in developing Android Applications using Core Java and Android APIs (Data Storage, Content Providers, Google Maps, Connectivity, Location and Notifications).  • Excellent team player, ability to work independently in a fast paced environment.  • Experience in using Unix shell and Java scripting.  • Developed Web Service and inter process communication applications using Java SOAP Framework, JSON, WSDL and REST API's.  • Expertise in using Java Threads (Multi-threading, Synchronization), Annotations, Generics, Collections API and TCP/IP Sockets.  • Adept in programming languages like C, C++, Python and Java with hands on experience in developing Android Enterprise Applications for mobiles and tablets using Eclipse, Android SDK and ADT development tools.  • Strong experience in using Android SDK tools like Hierarchy Viewer, TraceView, Draw 9-patch, AVD Manager, Android shell tools like Logcat and Android Platform tools like ADB, ADT up to Android 4.4(API Level 21).  • Experience with web development frameworks and technologies such as HTML, JavaScript, XML, DOM and CSS.  • Experience in working with several automated Testing Frameworks including JUnit and Robotium.  • Experience in developing test cases and test plans besides involving in Unit testing, Integration testing and User Acceptance testing extensively.  • Expertise in developing the presentation layer components using JSPs, Servlets, JavaScript, XML, HTML.  • Experience in developing the Bluetooth printer application and Main Menu application for Android phones.  • Extensive knowledge in designing front end applications, accessing SQL database, application layer protocols, and XML.  • Highly experienced in executing unit and sanity test cases for the multimedia component.  • Experience in Architecture Design, Development and Implementation, Troubleshooting and Debugging, Testing of Software Applications.  • Working knowledge of graphic design, audio and video features and handling various kinds of media using Photoshop, Flash.  • Experience in using third party libraries and GitHub.  • Experience in Android UI Toolkit and Layout Managers.  • Hands on experience in object oriented designing such as Encapsulation, abstraction, Polymorphism, Cohesion and Coupling.  • Write clean and clear code and expert in finding and fixing crashing bugs.  • Exposure to interaction between various devices and different versions of Android.  • Weakness for learning new Tools and Technologies.  • Performed link creation & path creation between two nodes, cross connection between the ports.  • Highly capable in handling multiple tasks, prioritizing, and meeting deadlines.  • Ability to coordinate with various team members involved in the project.  • Quick learner, excellent analytical, design and problem solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer Toyota - Los Angeles, CA March 2019 to Present https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.toyota.towners    Project Description:  The Automobile company app provides easy access to model-specific information on your smartphone any time you want and syncs automatically whether you access Toyota Owners from your desktop or smartphone.    Responsibilities  • Worked extensively with Java, Android Touch frameworks and third party API including Java mail API.  • Developed UI for most of the modules in the application using List View, Grid View, View Pager and Tab layouts using Action Bar.  • Integrated search widgets to perform search through their collections, load recent search and supports voice based search.  • Involved in entire software development process for all assigned android application development projects: requirement specification, design, implementation, testing and maintenance.  • Used Jira to track tickets and manage the development.  • Analyzed the requirements of the main menu features that can be supported in Android phones as well as Tablet.  • Wrote personal code library, which comprised of all commonly used functions and features such as: sharing content also includes push notification and application tracking and rating functions.  • Worked with Instruments tools extensively at the end of development cycle to minimize memory leaks and assure overall application stability.  • Used Android features such as, LoaderManager, Content Provider, Resolver, Observer, Default Receiver, Broadcast Receiver, Android Service, Handler, AsyncTask.  • Used various design patterns to manage code and data efficiently like Singleton.  • Created numerous helper classes that can be used throughout the classes.  • Created and used numerous 9 patch images to improve UI quality.  • Dynamically compressed the images to the size and quality needed for corresponding screen size.  • Implemented numerous customized views including surface view for graphic effects.  • Used REST webservices to communicate with the server.  • Designed main menu screens and controls using Containers and Widgets.  • Implementing store location by using Google Maps API v2.  • Implement location finder to track the place of damage by using GPS technology.  • Used Google Maps for faster navigation to find the Branch location and information to user get there.  • Developed the UI screens which met the UI requirements compliance.  • Used Eclipse and Android Studio for developing, debugging, coding and deployment of the applications.  • Used Photoshop CS5, Firework CS5, and Illustrator CS5 frequently for editing images, altering photos, and customizing look and feel of client's applications.  • Performed functionality testing and sanity testing.  Environment/Tools: Android 2.0/2, Eclipse 3.6, ADT Plug-in, SQLite, XML, Java, Subversion, JUnit. Android Developer Bank of America - Plano, TX June 2018 to February 2019 Project Description: Eric is a multi-line insurance company in America. Insurance app has so many cool client, policy, quote, claim and even management features to save time for extremely busy insurance professionals. Efficient, Quick and easy information at your fingertips available to you on the go no matter where you are, it will give the latest insurance related news and information along with insurance rates, insurance plans all in your android screen even without being connected to the web. Useful for insurance Agents for customer sales and service needs of different types such auto, home, property, life, health etc.    Responsibilities:  • Developed UI for most of the modules in the application using List View, Grid View, View Pager and Tab layouts using Action Bar.  • Integrated search widgets to perform search through their collections, load recent search and supports voice based search.  • Developed custom UI by drawing on the Canvas using native Android SDK API.  • Implement Tablet compatibility for the application, which was only phone compatible earlier.  • Implemented services using GSON library and part of design team in architecture of Web services.  • Used Intent Integrator for using the QR codes and Camera API for accessing the camera to use the QR code.  • Worked on the local data storage using shared preferences, SQLite database and file system.  • Worked closely with QA team while fixing bugs and fragmentation issues.  • Involved in unit testing with eclipse debugger and USB debugging.  • Implemented Serializable and Parcelable objects to send across activities.  • Improved the application performance by detecting memory leaks using DDMS.  • Developed generic libraries for downloading images and other resource using Async task handlers.  • Developed utility classes to handle Validations of user information using regex functions and other common app functionalities.  • Developed prototype using PhoneGap for cross platform compatibility.  • Implemented login functionality using Sterling services.  • Utilized external libraries such as, Paypal, Google APIs.  • Implemented store location by using Google Maps API to find the Branch location and information to user get there.  • Implemented DialogFragment to share the product with their friends and family.  • Implemented Singleton design pattern to pass through the object into different fragments.  Environment/Tools: Windows XP, MAC, Android 2.0, 3.0, 4.0 versions, Java, Android SDK, ADT 21.1.0, Shared Preferences, Fragments, JSON, REST API (XML), JavaScript, CSS, Eclipse 3.6, ANT, XML, Multi-threading, JIRA, FIDDLER, VMWare, Photoshop, Camera API. Android Developer Boston Medical Center - Boston, MA September 2017 to April 2018 Project Description:  Boston medical centers app developed for internal use for medical sales executives. App provides the detailed history of all the medicine which they have in store, the app uses the camera as a scanner for the tag on the medicine and then pulls up the history related to the medicine.  Responsibilities  • Created handset specific user interface (UI) for mobile phones and tablet PC's.  • Developed update patches, modules and components for different applications.  • OO Concepts and UML were immensely used for modeling.  • Comfortable in using Android Components such as Activities, Intents, Services and Custom UI Components such as Text View, ListView, Expandable ListView, Layouts and menus.  • Developed the UI for the app using edit boxes, buttons, 9-patch images, time picker, date picker, dialog boxes, alert boxes and spinners using various layouts.  • Participated in designing of various screens by using design principles.  • Researched on application acceptance and solicited feedback from users to make the new and existing applications more users friendly.  • Used JSON for web service calls to access external database.  • Used Intent Integrator for using the QR codes and Camera API for accessing the camera to use the QR code.  • Worked on the local data storage using shared preferences, SQLite database and file system.  • Used Asynchronous tasks for handling long term operations to ensure best UI performance.  • Tested the widget for multiple devices, densities and screens.  • Involved in unit testing with eclipse debugger and USB debugging.  • Handled time constraint issues, exception and error handling for the app.  • Involved in post-production support and Change Request process to fix the bugs.  • Worked closely with QA team while fixing bugs and fragmentation issues.  • Implemented a well versed error handling system in the application.  • Tested the application on different android target devices and also debugged the issues using android provided tools like TraceView and view hierarchy from DDMS for optimization purposes  • Involved in developer testing by porting the application on multiple devices with various screen sizes. Android developer BRADS DEALS - Chicago, IL October 2016 to August 2017 Description: The application was designed to provide the latest mergers and acquisition deals to the customers, it also shows the forecasts of any deals coming forward, they can subscribe or unsubscribe to any of the deals, email notifications will be sent to the subscribed customers.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the UI design and development of application.  • Developed GUI using HTML, TILES, JSP, AJAX, XML and CSS & JavaScript.  • Performed a lot of DOM manipulation using native JS and jQuery for loading and manipulating dynamic content on webpages.  • Implemented JSON for data handling on different application.  • Designing Websites focused on Usability, and Accessibility. Debugging Code and Unit Testing on development.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style mark-up presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Involved in Mobile web & App design & development using HTML & CSS.  • Developed QUNIT test cases for unit testing.  • Used JavaScript for validations.  • Developed BIRT reports for the Resource Capacity Module Graphs. Provided support for production issues for new enterprise releases.  • Used SVN to manage the versions and Merge the code.  Environment: JAVA, Android SDK, Android Emulator, JSON, Camera API, JSP, JDBC, AJAX, JavaScript, Web Services, JMS CVS, HTML, XML, Web Sphere, Eclipse, UNIX, DB2. Java Developer Bharti Airtel Limited - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2014 to April 2016 Project Description:  This platform comprises of number of subsystems like marketplace, provisioning, renewal engine, billing and BRM etc. The marketplace module is used to place orders using shop and buy. Provisioning maintains customer information and renewal engine is a centralized system which contains subscription and its renewal details. BRM and billing maintains payments information and authorization of payment instruments and customer address.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented the business logic using Spring MVC framework with Hibernate (with JPA) for CRUD operations.  • Implemented Spring REST web services to invoke backend/other systems for retrieving customer information.  • Created Restful services using Spring MVC for customers accessing WSJ/Barrons on Tablets, Mobile.  • Implemented the UI using JSP, CSS3, HTML5, JS and jQuery.  • Implemented client and server side validations using JS and AJAX calls.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit and also created test result document.  • Deployed the application in JBoss 6.x application server along with JMS configurations.  • Used Maven as build tool and worked in an Agile work environment along with SVN version control.  • Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  • Used SVN to keep track of the projects and made updates when required.  • Creation of ORM classes for the Hibernate mappings are done.  • Implemented design patterns like Singleton, Factory and Façade for the business logic.  Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, Eclipse 3.5, Spring 3, HTML5, JSP, CSS3, Windows, Oracle 10g, Hibernate 3, Hibernate JPA, Spring JMS, JBOSS 6.x, Maven, Spring MVC, SVN, JUnit, and Log4j Software Developer Caritor India Pvt Ltd March 2012 to July 2014 Description: Air core is an end-to-end solution to the whole Airline business Industry, created to meet the needs of today's rapidly changing competitive market. Air core suite of solutions is completely modular, open and web based making it truly platform-independent. It is designed to be easily deployed, extended and modified. It is also performing the function of simultaneously migrating the airline application from the old legacy systems to the user-friendly web application. The Air core solution provides a number of benefits including customer centric processing, the ability to adapt quickly to an ever changing market, the need for transparent change and lower development, maintenance and deployment costs.  Responsibilities:  • Used the Struts validation, Struts Custom tags and Tiles Framework in the presentation layer  • Developed the view pages in JSP, using CSS and validations using Servlets.  • Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  • Programming for various backend services using Java JDBC for accessing Oracle database establishing and reusing database connections and write stored procedures.  • Responsible for application build and releases using ANT as an application building tool and deploying the applications on WebLogic.  • Involved in Deploying and Configuring applications in WebLogic Server and used Oracle 9g for Database Storage.  • Wrote Stored Procedures to populate the database with Oracle.  • Involved in the end to end coding, testing of the system including writing unit test cases  • Developed the application using J2EE architecture in Eclipse IDE.  • Maintaining the code repository using VSS and Clear case for keeping codebase in sync with other phases of projects running simultaneously.  • Using TOAD to validate the file making results.  • Involved in the Object Oriented Analysis and Design using UML including development of class diagrams, Use Case Diagrams, Sequence diagrams, and State Diagrams.  Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts 2, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Oracle 9g, WebLogic, ANT, VSS, Clear Case, UML, Junit. Mobile Developer Intern RedBus.in - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2011 to February 2012 Android v2.3)  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=in.redbus.android    Project Description:  RedBus.in is a Bus service agency, which provides travel services along with passenger's reservations. Passengers (customers) can search about required bus, feed their complaints (types- commendations, suggestions). There are two departments, first is operational department and second is correction department. OR department maintain the Customer or passenger data, whereas CR Department maintain data about feedback or complains of Customers    Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering, Gap analysis, prepares workflow design based on client needs.  • Designed and Implemented MVC architecture using Struts Framework, Coding involves writing Forms, JSP and Used J2EE design patterns like DAO.  • Developed and maintained GUI using JSP and HTML.  • Used struts validation and java script for client side validations.  • Involved in debugging and integrated-testing of the application. Provided production support to the end users and performance tuning.  • Implemented the efficient way of handling ListViews, performance was boosted by 50% by upgrading the adapter used with list view.  • Used the coding technique of handling back navigation flow. Look alike buttons were used to mimic TabView concept in android.  • Yahoo web services were used to fetch nearby hospitals and clinics based in input longitude and latitude values.  • Extensive use of Linear, Relative and Table Layout were used for implementing pages. Both dynamic UI and Static UI were used to implement certain pages. XML were used for pages.  • Used themes and styles extensively in layout pages for better UI control.  Environment: Android SDK, Android version Gingerbread, Eclipse, 9Patch, SVN, XML, Hierarchy Viewer, TraceView, DDMS, LogCat, Developer Options, MAT, Windows. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JAVA TECHNOLOGIES, SPRING, JAX, JAX-WS, JNDI, RMI, VISUAL STUDIO, ANDROID STUDIO, API, C++, GRADLE, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, OOP, PYTHON, SVN