Lead ETL Developer Lead ETL <span class="hl">Developer</span> Chandler, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead ETL Developer General Motors - Chandler, AZ July 2019 to Present *Developing new college hires and leading an ETL team to design, develop, test, and deploy to production within one week of receiving accurate requirements.  *Working with business partners daily to iron out all necessary requirements and connection info for file transfers.  *Actively investigating and troubleshooting production issues and finding appropriate resolutions quickly.  *Established quick lines of communication with multiple organizations to allow for efficient and effective changes in all environments. Senior IBM Datastage ETL Developer General Motors - Chandler, AZ October 2018 to Present *Modified entire structure of deployments to utilize automation through JSon and SVN. Improving deployments from taking several hours in a day, to several minutes. Saving time year over year on production deployments.  *Design, test, and deploy datastage interfaces that are utilized across organization on an administrative level.  *Maintain and update old interfaces to keep them as efficient as possible for the benefit of the company. (E.G. Jobs that would take 4 hours now take 4 minutes - By modifying the way the queries were using certain indexes to improve the speed)  *Train others for cross-functional experience. Software Developer General Motors - Chandler, AZ July 2014 to October 2018 *Leading small teams of people to complete important projects as well as working as one team to optimize old interfaces for improved efficiency.  *Designing and developing integration methods utilizing the Enterprise Integration Management system built into the Oracle Siebel platform.  *Utilize the IBM Datastage application to design ongoing jobs that handle large amounts of data.  *Employ high level SQL script to maintain the Oracle SQL database.  *Work with the business and customers to develop the best software for production.  *Drastically improved database response efficiency on a majority of interfaces.  *Configured Siebel Tools for improved maneuvering in Siebel Client.  *Improved efficiency in exporting data through external business components. Education Bachelor's in Applied Computer Science Arizona State University-Polytechnic - Mesa, AZ 2009 to 2014 Skills Siebel Tools (5 years), Enterprise Integration Management (5 years), Javascript (2 years), Java (2 years), Python (2 years), .NET (1 year), SQL (5 years), IBM DataStage (5 years), Visual Basic (1 year), Prolog (1 year), ETL (5 years), Data Warehouse, Datastage (5 years), Hadoop (Less than 1 year), PL SQL (5 years)