Senior Software Architect Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Architect Enterprise Solutions Engineer Rowlett, TX I seek to befriend the best minds that will help me design, build and deliver solid yet flexible processes, tools and solutions on contract and according to plan, in collaboration with stakeholders and other teams, in an agile fashion and with a DevOps mindset. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Architect Texas Capital Bank - Richardson, TX July 2018 to Present .Net, ADF, Azure, Azure DevOps, C#, Git, LINQ, Office, SQL, SSIS, VS2017    Lead agile team to further develop custom cloud ETL solutions using Azure and Azure DevOps. Design, document and implement rapid data ingestion and transformation patterns, focused on data quality, enterprise standards and improved data governance. Architect a framework of contracts for developers to transform files focusing on data quality. Senior Consultant World Link - Richardson, TX February 2018 to July 2018 .Net, ADF, Azure, C#, Git, LINQ, PowerPoint, SQL, SSIS, TFS, VS2015, VSTS, Word    Participate on an agile team to develop custom ETL in an Azure environment for Texas Capital Bank. Design and implement Proof of Concept (POC) prototypes with a “fail quickly and fail often” mindset. Design and implement an ETL framework. Define standards and processes.  Software Developer II Ambit Energy - Dallas, TX October 2016 to January 2018 Develop and implement new software programs.  Test, maintain and improve the functionality and performance of existing software.  Design and update databases.  Communicate clearly and regularly with coworkers and management.  Recommend improvements as necessary. Software Developer Code Authority - Frisco, TX August 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities  Develop innovative and efficient ways to deliver stunning UIs that encapsulate complex data-driven business logic.    Accomplishments  In all projects I start by assisting in tasks or being assigned tasks and end up owning the project, interacting with customers SMEs and translating their vision and desires into viable, elegant solutions. I have delivered code currently in production--I still deliver enhancements.    Skills Used  Ability to solve challenging coding requirements; ability to learn new languages and paradigms fast; engineering and math; ability to discuss ideas and assist and lead others in finding solutions to complex problems. Help Desk Support CompuCom, Inc. - Dallas, TX December 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities  Handle 40 calls on average per day about computer hardware/ software issues, with a 75% or better first-level call resolution record.    Accomplishments  Selected as Master of Productivity 2 months in a row and the Most Valuable Peer once in an 6 month period. Handled 6 highest priority tickets in one day.    Skills Used  System administration skills, computer, tablet and smartphone troubleshooting skills, effective communication skills, service delivery management, technical writing, peer assistance and review, effective time management, multitasking. Database Developer City of Rowlett - Rowlett, TX 2011 to 2011 Create the city's fleet database in SQL from AS400 flat-file data  ETL using Excel formulas and VBA/JavaScript macros Education Bachelor of Science in Technical Management DeVry University - Dallas, TX 2007 Skills .Net, Android, Angular, Azure, Batch, C/C++/C#, CSS, Delphi, ECMA Script, Excel, Firebase, HTML, IIS, Ionic, iOS, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL, MVC, Objective-C, Photoshop, SASS, SQL Server, TypeScript, UML, VB, VSTS, WCF, WPF, XML, ZPL (10+ years), C, C#, Java, Javascript, NET Links http://hectorjrivas.com Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Certificate December 2013 to December 2016 MCP April 2011 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional - Windows Server and Client OS Microsoft Certified Solutions Developer May 2015 to Present Windows Store Apps Using C# Publications Word Saga http://www.amazon.com/Word-Saga-A-Bedtime-Story/dp/146915661X/ 2012-01-25 In his book titled Word Saga, Author H.J. Rivas creates a unique bedtime story using perfectly written wordplay and involving fictional, medieval and mythological characters, legendary excursions and more that tells about how everything connects to everything else.    Word Saga delves into a magical world where kingdoms exist, where fights between knights and dragons unfold, where wish-granting genies and the Book Of Old Knowledge are acknowledged, where a villainous character sets to spread havoc, and where unicorns, bicorns and tricorns, verses, universes and reverses and so much more happen to happen.    Entwined to connect one story to another, this creatively written book filled with rich and colorful illustrations is set to amaze readers with the author’s selection of words that link with each other to make up a bedtime story. It can be considered a tongue twister and a logic defier of a story, but certainly not one that is hard to follow as one reads the book.    More than anything else, the fun part of reading this book is to watch readers get mesmerized with the way the words are simply being played in the story. It’s one thing to be entertained by a bedtime story like this, but, it is an entirely different thing to see the story evolve and connect each thing with one another just by playing up with words.