Tableau Data Analyst/ Developer Tableau Data Analyst/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Tableau Data Analyst/ Developer Boston, MA • Over 7+ years of Data warehousing experience with Business Intelligence, Tableau 8.2/8.1/8.0/ 7.0, OBIEE, SAS, OLTP and OLAP Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Excel as a Developer in various companies.  • Reports development using various reporting tools like Tableau.  • Excellent knowledge in RDBMS concepts and constructs along with Database Objects creation such as Tables, User Defined Data Types, Indexes, Stored Procedures, Views, User Defined Functions, Cursors and Triggers.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that include duties like providing documentation on design, testing and migration from development to production.  • Involved in creating Dashboards as needed using Tableau Desktop and Tableau Server.  • Provided 24/7 customer support to tableau users.  • Extensively used Tabadmin and Tabcmd commands in creating backups and restoring backups of Tableau repository.  • Translated business logic from one system (SQL, Excel, etc.) into Alteryx in a quick and accurate manner  • Involved in installation of Tableau desktop 8.0, Tableau server Application software.  • Involved in creating dashboards and reports in Tableau 8.1. Created report schedules on Tableau server.  • Administered user, user groups, and scheduled instances for reports in Tableau and documented upgrade plan from Tableau 8.0 to Tableau 8.1.  • Created incremental refreshes for data sources on Tableau server.  • Creating users, groups, projects, Data connections, settings as a Tableau administrator.  • Extensively worked on Tableau Administrator and Tableau Server.  • Proficient in designing techniques like Snowflake schemas, Star schema, fact and dimension tables, logical and physical modeling.  • Involved in creating various SAS Reports that includes Charts, Filters, Scorecards, Drilldown and Drill-Through, Cascade, Parameterized reports that involved conditional formatting.  • Quick learner and good performer both in team and independent job environments.  • The ability to analyze truly big data at interactive speeds using Teradata.  • Good knowledge on Data Quality Assessment & Data Cleaner Tool, Data Model Creation, Data Warehouse (Design, Implementation & Support).  • Extensive experience in extraction, transformation and loading of data directly from different Heterogeneous source systems like Flat Files, Excel, Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server.  • Extensive Dimensional Modeling experience in Star Schema/Snowflake schema design, Fact and Dimensions tables.  • Extensively worked on databases like Oracle, SQL Server, and DB2.  • Strong programming and debugging skills in PL/SQL, SQL and UNIX shell scripting.  • Experienced in developing complex packages, procedures, functions, triggers, views.  • Extensive experience in entire SDLC.  • Experience in Configuring Interactive Dashboards with Drill-Down capabilities using Filters and Dashboard prompts.  • Developed many Reports / Dashboards with different Analytics Views (Drill-down / Dynamics, Pivot table, Chart, Column Sector, Narrative view) with local and global filters using OBIWeb. Work Experience Tableau Data Analyst/ Developer PennyMac - Westlake, CA September 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Gathered Business Requirements, Interacted with the Users, Project Manager and SMEs to get a better understanding of the Business Processes.  • Effectively interacted with Business Analysts and Data Modelers and defined Mapping documents and Design process for various Sources and Targets.  • Gathered user requirements, analyzed and designed software solution based on the requirements.  • Involved in creating database objects like tables, views, procedures, triggers, functions using T-SQL to provide definition, structure and to maintain data efficiently.  • Building, publishing customized interactive reports and dashboards, report scheduling using Tableau server.  • Created action filters, parameters and calculated sets for preparing dashboards and worksheets in Tableau.  • Effectively used data blending feature in tableau.  • Defined best practices for Tableau report development.  • Administered user, user groups, and scheduled instances for reports in Tableau.  • Executed and tested required queries and reports before publishing.  • Converted metric insight reports to tableau reports.  • Create, customize & share interactive web dashboards in minutes with simple drag & drop.  • See a comprehensive view of your sales pipeline and results.  • Access dashboards from any browser or tablet.  • Involved in installation of Tableau desktop 7.0, Tableau server Application software.  • Creating users, groups, projects, Data connections, settings as a tableau administrator.  • Involved in creating dashboards and reports in Tableau 8.1. Created report schedules on Tableau server.  • Creating New Schedule's and checking the task's daily on the server.  • Maintaining server activities, user activity, and customized views on Server Analysis.  • Worked on tabcmd to schedule the report's and setup email reports using command lines.  • Created Business requirement documents and plans for creating dashboards.  • Involved in creating ad hoc analysis and reporting requests in a timely manner for BML Risk related to fraud Approval's, Declines daily, monthly and yearly.  • Created Tableau scorecards,dashboards using stack bars, bar graphs, scattered plots, geographical maps, Gantt charts using show me functionality.  • Worked extensively with Advance analysis Actions, Calculations,Parameters,Background images, Maps.  • Trend Lines, Statistics, and Log Axes. Groups, hierarchies, sets to create detail level summary report and Dashboard using KPI's.  • Created organized, customized analysis and visualized projects and dashboards to present to Senior Level Executives.  • Good SQL reporting skills with the ability to create SQL views and write SQL queries highly recommended.  • Deep experience with the design and development of Tableau visualization solutions.  • Provided 24/7 production support for Tableau users.    Environment:Tableau Desktop 8.2/8.1/8.0, Tableau server / Administrator, tabcmd, SQL developer, SQL 2008. Sr. Tableau Developer IQVIA - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases (SDLC) of this project from planning, requirement gathering, design, develop, test and implementation.  • Involved in analysis of Key Performance Indicators (KPI's) from two main information systems: Procurement (ADPICS) and Finances (FRM).  • Involved in design and development of two main technological components, a Database to store data of all transactions related with each purchase and a Data Warehouse to store historical forecast and real demand by vaccine and by country, to measure the forecasting changes.  • Involved in publishing of various kinds of live, interactive data visualizations, dashboards, reports and workbooks from Tableau Desktop to Tableau servers.  • Assisted users to publish and collaborate reports via a web browser & embed Tableau views in other web applications like SharePoint.  • Involved in conducting trainings to user on interact, filter, sort and customize views on an existing visualization generated thru Tableau desktop.  • Extensively involved in identifying and solving the problems by coordinating with senior managers in emergency and normal issues to meet the goals.  • Extensively participated in translating business needs into Business Intelligence reporting solutions by ensuring the correct selection of toolset available across the Tableau BI suite.  • Participated in Preparing Detailed technical documents from the functional specifications.  • Involved a key member in development of E-R modeling (Logical design) of database incorporating business logic and user requirement.  • Created Advance connections, join new tables, create & manage Extract and Monitor Queries using SQL Assistant.  • Created Complex workbooks and Dashboards by connecting to multiple data source (Teradata) using data blending.  • Extensively worked on Tableau Desktop, by creating Sears and Kmart Complex reports and Dashboards.  • Created Tableau scorecards, dashboards, Heat maps using show me functionality.  • Good Experience in publishing reports and dashboards to Tableau server.  • Created complex data Views Manually using multiple measures, also used sort, Filter, group, Create Set functionality.  • Published Reports, workbooks & data source to server and exporting the reports in different Formats.  • Good experience in using URL's,Hyperlinks, Filters for developing Complex dashboards.  • Worked creating Aggregations, calculated Fields, Table calculations, Totals, percentages using Key Performance Measures (KPI) and Measure.  Environment:Tableau 7.0, SQL Server 2008/2008 R2, T-SQL, SQL Server Management Studio, Microsoft Excel. TABLEAU DEVELOPER XEROX - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2012 to 2013 Responsibilities:  • Develop, support, maintain, and test, Developer Suit (Form, Report), SQL/PL-SQL, Program Design, create and maintain data model and data.  • Create Tableau software (BI), dashboards, data analysis, visualization, report ,  • Develop, Maintain, Test using Oracle SQL, PL-SQL including Program Unit According to Business Analyst and Function Requirements.  • Tableau development lifecycle from gathering requirements and designing solutions, through developing code / reports, to testing and release / deployment  • Design, create and extend application layer to manage the CMS data repository and ETL(Extract, Transform, and Load) feeds from multiple sources  • Design, develop and support Performance and Capacity Application Dashboard using APEX  • Design, develop and support complex performance and capacity charts and reports using Tableau Tool.  • Expertise with data architecture, data interoperability and data analytics using Tableau and SQLs  • Assist Seagate DBAs and Application Developers with Oracle SQL troubleshooting, performance tuning and enhancements  Environment: Tableau Server v7/8, Tableau Desktop v7/8, SQL Server 2008/2012, Oracle 11g, SQL SSIS, Team Foundation Server, Visual Studio 2012 ,Crystal Reports 10. Oracle/Tableau Developer Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2010 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering and analyzing the user requirements in coordination with Business.  • Participated in all phases including requirement analysis, Client Interaction, designing and testing  • Involved in Logical and Physical Database design and Star Schema design. Identified Fact tables, and Dimensional tables.  • Enhanced the Previous ETL process with new features by exploring areas of improvements like data quality, data masking, slowly changing dimensions and performance enhancements. Implemented best practices for development in all the environments.  • Developed number of complex Informatica mappings and custom transformations to implement the business logic and to load the data incrementally.  • Building, publishing customized interactive reports and dashboards, report scheduling using Tableau server.  • Created action filters, parameters and calculated sets for preparing dashboards and worksheets in Tableau.  • Effectively used data blending feature in tableau.  • Worked on Migration of User Developed Applications/reports from Mainframe SAS to SAS EG in order to optimize the execution time, resources and to reduce the cost of process  • Designed and developed complex Procedures, Functions & Packages to handle errors and exceptions at database level using PL/SQL  • Usage of SQL loader to load data from external files that is exported from Server  • Wrote UNIX shell scripts to spawn the Loader job for daily load of data.  • Developed static and dynamic parameter files for reusability and database connection management among development/testing/production environments.  • Development of shell scripts to access informatica workflows for scheduling  • Design and development of business objects universe for adhoc reporting and web-intelligence reports.  • Developed reports with features like drill down,slice and dice,master/detail for analysis of business.  • Created different reports containing charts showing end of day trade details and statistics.  • Utilized SAS to create complicated reports including sub-reports, graphical reports, formula base and well-formatted reports according user requirements.  • Developed universe user documentation guide for the end users reference.  • Provided training for end users for generating their own report including complicated report.  • Involved in Technical Documentation, Unit test, Integration Test and writing Test plans.    Environment: Oracle, Informatica Power Centre 7.1, Tableau, SAS, PL/SQL, SQL Developer. Oracle Developer GATI Transport - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2008 to November 2009 Responsibilities:  • Created SQL scripts and written Procedures using PL/SQL to load data from flat files into new tables (using both UTL and SQL Loader - for different cases)  • Explain Plan, TKPROF was used for checking the performance of queries  • Modified and updated existing custom forms to adapt to new database schema  • Created SQL scripts for conversion of legacy data (including validations) and then load it into the tables  • Developed SQL*Loader programs &PL/SQL scripts to load legacy data into Oracle Apps.  • Developed reports using Reports 6i.  • Developed PL/SQL programs for various modules to validate data while importing into oracle system.  • Participated in database development like creating PL/SQL triggers, packages, procedures function.  • Performed exception handling for data that did not conform to the required format.  • Responsible for making the merged data in turn available to other clients.  • Wrote UNIX scripts to automate loading files into database using error handling and notification.  • Involved in implementing the data integrity validation checks through constraints and triggers.  • Involved in developing packages for implementing business logic through procedures and functions.    Environment:ORACLE 7.x, Reports 6i, PL/SQL, SQL Loader, SQL. Software Engineer Global Edge - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2007 to October 2008 Responsibilities:  • Worked on full life cycle development (SDLC) involving in all stages of development.  • Created database objects including Schemas, complex stored procedures, User defined functions, Tables, Views, Indexes, SQL joins Constrains and SSIS packages.  • Developed and Optimized Stored Procedures, Views, and User-Defined Functions for the Application.  • Used SSIS to create ETL packages to validate, extract, transform and load data to data warehouse databases, data mart databases  • Extensively worked with SSIS tool suite, designed and created mappings using various SSIS transformations like OLEDB Command, Conditional Split, Lookup, Aggregator, Multicast and Derived Column.  • Designed, tested (unit testing and integration testing) and implemented stored procedures and functions for data processing of huge volume of data.  • Created Dashboard reports for quick analysis by using SharePoint online reporting and presented to sales managers.  • Responsible for creating and modified database objects like table, synonyms, Views, Store Procedure, and User defined functions using T-SQL to provide structure to store data and to maintain database efficiently.  • Provided ad-hoc support to analytical groups by providing data using MS. Excel (Stacked chart, Bar chart, scattered chart, Line chart, and Pivot table) at regular, monthly, quarterly and yearly basis.  • Involved in fine tuning SQL query, SQL Optimizing using SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard, and Database Tuning Advisor.  • Responsible for ongoing maintenance and change management to existing reports and optimize report performance in SSRS-2008.  • Extensively worked in migrating office writer reports to SSRS-2008.  • Worked on client requirement and wrote Complex SQL Queries to generate Crystal Reports  • Converted existing excels based reports and crystal reports to SSRS reports.  • Created and Configured OLAP cubes (star schema and Snow flake schema) using SQL Server 2008 Analysis Services (SSAS).    Environment: Microsoft SQL Server 2008/2005, Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), C#, Microsoft Visio 2007, Microsoft Project 2003. Education MA Harvard Pilgrim Health Care January 2018 to Present Skills Data modeling, Database, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Informatica, Sas, Siebel, Tableau, Teradata, Etl, Star schema, Html, Reporting tools, Scripting, Visio, Xml, Linux Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Data Modeling Tools Star Schema Modeling, Snow Flake Modeling  Data Warehousing ETL Tools Informatica Power Center 8 .X,7.X , Data Cleaner 2.2  Databases Oracle 11g/10g/9i, MySQL ,SQL Server, Teradata  Database Tools TOAD, SQL Developer, SQL Plus  Reporting Tools  Tableau 8.2,8.1/8.0/7.0,SAS,OBIEE 10.1.3x/11g (Oracle BI Interactive Dashboards , Oracle BI Administration Tool, Oracle BI Answers, Siebel Analytics, Oracle BI Delivers)    Languages PL/SQL, SQL, Unix shell scripting, Java, C  Web Tools HTML, DHTML, XML, JAVA SCRIPT  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Microsoft 2003/2000/ NT/98/95  Others MS Word, Excel, VISIO 2007