Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - LTCPartners • Over 6+ years of professional experience in Software Development.  • Strong development experience with Java, JavaScript, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3  • Experience with multiple programming languages including JavaScript, TypeScript, Java.  • Extensive experience with the component-based framework such as Angular2/4/6 to create Single Page Applications for interacting with RESTful server-side  • Proficient in Responsive Web Design with CSS Media Query, bootstrap and Angular Material.  • Proficient in Angular Ajax call using Observable (Rxjs)and interacting with servers by using HTTP Request.  • Created custom Directives, factory, providers, services and filters in Angular JS.  • Experienced in Angular Router Module to implement a Single Page Application(SPA). Utilized Route Guard to protect routes and prevent users from accessing area they're not allowed to access.  • Experience in deployment of Angular applications in Apache servers and AWS.  • Great problem solving, enhancement, debugging and maintenance skills.  • Received several appreciations from Business managers and clients for solving difficult technical problems.  • Good working knowledge in NPM(Node Package Manager) to manage the Angular application.  • Experience in creating flexible and high-performance back-end server using Node.js, Express.js and creating RESTful API by implementing JWT and CORS module.  • Expressed in testing framework such Jasmine, testing runner such Karma, Jenkins as the continuous integration tool, NPM and Bower for managing package, Gulp for auto running task.  • Experience in Quality assurance, Unit testing, Load testing.  • Working experience in Version control management tools such as Git, Clear Case, SVN.  • Worked with Software Development Life Cycle in Agile(Scrum).  • Experienced in Java concepts, such as OOP Design, Generics, Java Collections, Java Servlet and JDBC.  • Strong experience in solving cross-browser compatibility issues with IE, Edge, Firefox, Chrome, Safari and Opera.  • Good team player, fast learner and keep tracking most cutting-edge technology. Work Experience Software Developer LTCPartners - Portsmouth, NH February 2019 to Present LTCP Partners(Long Term Care Partners) specializes in benefits enrollment and administration as well as benefits brand management. LTC Partners has conducted two new major benefit start-ups for the Federal government - the Federal Long Term Care Insurance Program (FLTCIP) in 2002 and the Federal Employees Dental and Vision Insurance Program (FEDVIP) in 2006. FEHB (Federal Employees Health Benefit) program for providing a one-stop-shop within an account-based portal where enrollees can compare and learn about FEHB plan options, including benefits, cost-sharing and total out-of pocket expenses. and select a plan that fits the needs of their family.FDSFSDFngular2  Responsibilities:  • Understood work flows of Federal Employee Enrollment flow and participated in group SURM meetings for designing and developing via HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, TypeScript and Angular 6.  • Implemented the Eligibility form which can verify Federal Employee eligibility for FEHB program via Reactive form and Bootstap3.  • Used Angular-cli to establish and add more scaffolding components and routers.  • Created re-used Angular custom components like search agency API.Used the RxJs library to manage asynchronous calls like fetching date through HTTP calls.  • Deployed front-end code to Tomcat and AWS with Docker container.  • Performed Unit Testing via Jasmine and Karma for every component to build a robust and bug-free application..  • Involved in Agile development environment using Jira for tracing processes and involved in 2 weekly sprint, and daily stand up meetings.  Environment: Angular 6, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript , TypeScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, MySQL, AWS, Docker, JIRA, Slack, Skype, Visual Studio Code UI Developer DrFirst.com, Inc - Rockville, MD May 2017 to January 2019 DrFirst.com pioneers software solutions and services that real-time access to patient data, improve communication and collaboration at the point of care and across the patient's circle of caregivers, and enhance the doctor's clinical view of the patient to help driver better health outcomes. Internal Performance Dashboard(IPD) is an intuitive, visual system customer data. The purpose of the project is to provide the data analyst team with UI interface for tracking. And analyze the data. By using the system, data analysts can figure out how business was performing and the way to improve it. I was responsible to build front-end using Angular 2/4 and created angular routes, components, services, and directives.  Angular2  Responsibilities:  • Understood the requirements of the data analysis group and participated in group meetings for designing and developing user-friendly internal performance dashboards, using a mix of technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript including popular JS framework such Angular2/4.  • Involved in all stage of software development lifecycle including Analysis, development, implementation, testing and support.  • Designed Angular Router to enable navigation among different views to make Single Page application (SPA) acts like multiple page application.  • Implemented HTTP requests to fetch data from database by using Observable from Rxjs library and subscribed the Observable to receive HTTP response.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end Restful Servers.  • Implemented user-friendly dashboard using Chart.js and Underscore.js to build animated, interactive graphs.  • Designed various Angular components to implement different functionalities. Used Angular Form control and Form validation to handle user input.  • Designed REST API in Node.js and used Express.js framework to build a flexible and fast-responsive server.  • Created customized API route using Node.js to handle requests sent by front-end.  • Utilized Webpack as the automation tool to implement file translation, source map, bundling and Minification.  • Used Jasmine and Karma test tool to build a robust and bug-free application.  • Updated the progress of the project and managed the tasks with JIRA.  • Involved in Agile methodology, weekly Sprints and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  Environment: Angular 2/4, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Java, J2EE, Node.js, Express.js, Chart.js, Underscore.js, Jasmine, Karma, JIRA, Agile(Scrum), Git, Webstorm, IntelliJ  r, react Web Developer New York Life Insurance Co - Jersey City, NJ June 2016 to May 2017 New York Life Insurance Company is the largest mutual life insurance company in the United States. Founded in 1845. This project was to update and maintain company webpage, including design layout and style using CSS and front-end framework such as Bootstrap, jQuery and AngularJS.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented functionalities of the webpage using AngularJS, jQuery, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Developed application using AngularJS Single Page Application (SPA) to improve page performance.  • Utilized AngularJS to consume a RESTful API using AJAX service such as $http and handled HTTP requests to retrieve the response JSON data from server.  • Used $broadcast, $emit, $on to communicate between controllers.  • Involved in writing AngularJS code to sort and filter the products according to customer  preference.  • Used various Bootstrap components such as Navbar, Tables, Forms and Lists to build the responsive web pages.  • Worked with jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side.  • Used Git for version control across common source code used by developers, and JIRA as the bug tracking tool.  • Extensively experience on client-side frameworks like AngularJS and test tool such as Jasmine and Karma.  • Involved in the Agile process, two-week Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application to deliver in time.Environment: HTML, CSS, AngularJS, jQuery, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Git, JIRA,Jasmine, Karma, Webstorm. UI Developer Key Bank - Cleveland, OH April 2015 to June 2016 KeyBank is a regional bank headquartered in Cleveland Ohio and is the only major bank based in Cleveland. This project aimed at building a user-friendly webpage that showcased the financial plans and provided customers an easy way to purchase from the website.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and developing Web application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and the Box model.  • Used jQuery Library for the logical implementation part at client for the application.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application(SPA) to bind the financial data with the view modules and synchronize the data with server. Configured AngularJS Route module using AngularJS route Provider to create SPA.  • Implemented AngularJS HTTP module to subscribe the change of value after receiving data from RESTful web services.  • Used Git for code version control.  • Used AngularJS controllers (JavaScript object) to control page (create child scope) data and Models to bind data in User Interface with controller.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Restful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fixed the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Implemented two way data-binding in AngularJS to handle the automatic synchronization of data between the model and view components.  • Performed unit testing using QUnit and Jasmine based on Test-driven Development (TDD) approach.  Environment: HTML, CSS, AngularJS, jQuery, Bootstrap, JavaScript, QUnit, Jasmine, AJAX. Java/Web Developer Alibaba Group - Beijing, CN July 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Coding and Maintenance activities.  • Using JSP, Servlet, Spring, HTML to design and maintain website.  • Unit testing and integration testing of the system.  • Take part in Business Requirement Analysis meetings with the client and conceptualizing the design solution.  • Optimized the code written by the team-members and tuned the SQL Queries.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlet, JSP, HTML, JDBC, Tomcat. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science University of Dayton - Dayton, OH B.A. in Software Engineering Nanjing University Of Information Science and Technology Skills Visual studio, Design patterns, Front-end, Git, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Redux, Typescript, Python, Svn, Css, Tomcat, Web server, Web services, Angularjs, Mvc, Restful web services, Eclipse, J2ee Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Front-end Technologies and Programming Languages: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, TypeScript  Back-end Technologies and Database: Java, Python, AWS, S3, J2EE  JavaScript MVC frameworks: Angular 2/4/6, AngularJS, Redux  Version Control and Management: GIT, SVN  Operation System: Mac, Linux , Unix, Windows 7/8/10, XP  Database: MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB  Web Server: Apache, Tomcat  Software: Webstrom, IntelliJ, Visual Studio Codes, Eclipse, Sublime, Postman  Server Side Programming: Node.js, RESTful Web Services, Spring Cloud, Spring MVC, Hibernate  Design Patterns: Singleton, Dependency Injection, Factory, MVC, MVVM  OOAD: E-R diagram  Testing Frameworks: Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, Protractor