Senior .Net Developer Senior .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior .Net Developer Lancaster, PA • Senior .Net Developer having 9 years of diverse Experience with all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) involved in Designing, Developing, Integrating and Implementing software applications based on Microsoft.NET technologies, Backend Development and Building multi-tiered architecture.  • Strong hands on experience in the Microsoft.Net Framework [4.6/4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0/1.1/1.0] developing Web Forms, Web Services, Web Pages, Win forms using ASP.Net MVC, C#.net [4.0/3.0/2.0], Visual Basic 6 and used Sql Server [2014/2012/2008] and ADO.Net for Backend Development.  • Experience in working on Front End Development using JavaScript, Angular Js 2, jQuery 2.1, Bootstrap v2.3.2, React Js, HTML 5, CSS 3, XML and Crystal Reports in developing Windows-based and Web-based applications.  • Experience with an agile software development methodology and Test Driven Development including SCRUM Framework.  • Strong knowledge on Object Oriented Programming System (OOPS) concepts including inheritance, polymorphism, encapsulation and abstraction and Used design patterns like Factory, Singleton and Observer Pattern etc.  • Good Knowledge of MVC, WCF and MVVM design patterns.  • Creating LINQ enabled database layer using WEB API such as LINQ to SQL and Entity Framework  • Extensive experience in WPF, WCF with all the programming and technologies integrated into MVC, ASP.NET3.5 & C# framework.  • Worked with Web Services (SOAP), Windows Presentation Foundation (WCF), XAML  • Excellent skills in writing stored procedures, T-SQL Queries, functions, triggers, views and schemas and also used No SQL Databases such as MongoDB.  • Profound knowledge in working with RDBMS includes MS SQL Server, Oracle 11g, MS Access and No-Sql databases like Mongo DB.  • Developed a WCF (Windows Communications Foundation) application to track messages to and fro for the platform.  • Experience in Windows Cloud Azure Platform by creating app services and integrating Sql databases.  • Worked with .NET Server Controls, Data Grid Web Control, and Form Validation Controls and crested numerous Custom controls in ASP.NET and used MSMQ to communicate with different servers.  • Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, jQuery UI, UX, React Js and Angular JS.  • Experience in Angular JS 2, Twitter Bootstrap 3 framework for developing UI.  • Consumed Restful Web Services using simple client side technologies using JavaScript, React Js,AJAX, JSON, DOM, Unix shell scripting, HTML5 , CSS3 and Server side application maintenance like Node Js.  • Hands-on experience in MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework using Angular JS 2.  • Extensive experience in developing, debugging multi-tier applications using C#, AJAX, XSLT, XML, HTML, Serialization, CSS, N-unit.  • Experience in developing applications using ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web Forms, LINQ and Windows Communictaion Foundation (WCF)  • Worked on migrating Web applications into the Sitecore CMS systems and Implemented Web applications into Sitecore using SCRUM Agile methods.  • Expertise in building Web Services using WSDL, UDDI, SOAP Protocol and consuming/publishing Web Services and used SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) Concepts using .Net framework  • Proficient in using XML related technologies Like XSLT, XPATH and XQUERY.  • Created custom SharePoint sites, sub sites, Document Libraries, Lists and List views to collaborate the Affiliates using visual studio 2005.  • Experience in working with Bootstrap to design the responsive web pages by using the templates of HTML, CSS and React Js.  • Worked with ASP.NET Web Forms, Web Services, and State Management, Caching features, configuring optimizations and securing the web application.  • Experience in generating Drill down reports with Drop down menu option, parameterized reports and creating stylish report layouts in SSRS.  • Very good Team player, Self-motivated, hardworking professional with good organizational, leadership, interpersonal and communication skills.  • Quick learner and adapt quickly to any new situation/changes and work pro-actively towards meeting deadlines is my forte. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior .Net Developer Centene Corporation - St. Louis, MO December 2015 to August 2018 Centene Corporation is a large publicly-traded company and a leading multi-line healthcare enterprise that serves as a major intermediary for both government-sponsored and privately insured health care programs. The main lines of Centene include Medicare, Medicaid, The Health Insurance Marketplace System, (via the ACA), Tricare, as well as traditional commercial insurance.    Responsibilities:  • Experience in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) requirements definition, design, documentation, development, integration, testing and troubleshooting, implementation and maintenance  • Implemented CRUD functionality with Entity framework in ASP.NET MVC and implemented sorting, filtering and paging with Entity framework (Code First) in MVC.  • Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions.  • Experience in working with JavaScript Frameworks like React Js, Angular JS, which simplifies JavaScript object bindings with HTML Elements and client server communications and used Node Js for server side communicatios.  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for client side scripting to create highly responsive interfaces for users.  • Designing and implementing consumer software experience across the web stack, from backend ASP.Net MVC, Webmail services, using Azure storage and other services, to web-based frontend.  • Developed in C# and Cloud Azure using Entity Framework, a backend OData source to capture and offer data regarding the state of devices.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, React Js, Angular JS and JavaScript.  • Extensively used ASP.NET, Bootstrap 3, C# Validation Controls and JavaScript for client side validations in the Web Pages.  • Used Angular JS and React Js as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined Functions.  • Creating Tabular Reports, Matrix Reports, Parameterized Reports, Sub reports using SQL Server Reporting Services 2012 and Created ad-hoc reports Using Report Builder.  • Used Java Script for client side scripting which will reduce the server trips.  • Created drill down, drill through, sub and linked reports using MS SSRS as well as managed the subscription of the reports.  • Performed T-SQL tuning and optimization of queries for reports that took longer execution time Index Tuning Wizard and SQL Query  • Deployed and tested Web Application before going to the production using IIS web server and migrated to Sitecore using SCRUM method.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) as the version control to keep track of project issues, tasks and bugs.  • Worked on Unit and Integration test cases for Services.    Environment: VisualStudio2013/2012, C#, .NET 4.5, ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web API, Razor, ADO.NET, Entity Framework (Code first), LINQ, JSON, Java Script, Angular JS 1.4.5, Boot strap, HTML5, Service Locator, SQL Server 2012 (SDS), T-SQL, MS Visio 2012, Team Foundation Server 2013, IIS 7.5, Azure. Sr .Net Developer City National Bank - Los Angeles, CA October 2013 to December 2015 City National bank's mission is to provide the ultimate banking experience for successful entrepreneurs and professionals through an uncommon dedication to extraordinary service, proactive advice and total financial solutions.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented design patterns and the entire backend of the application in C#.NET, using various object oriented features like classes, interfaces, inheritance, polymorphism etc. and Multi-threading.  • Responsible in implementation of the presentation layer for the application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS.  • Created and consumed restful services with using WEB API.  • Develop the common components using jQuery, Bootstrap, CSS3 for internal developer code reuse.  • Designed and created the restful web service using MVC WEB API and used JSON to read request and return response of the web service.  • Involved in developing and maintaining the web application using Entity Framework.  • Consumed Web services using WCF and WPF for online transactions using C# and exposed them through SOAP and HTTP.  • Worked in implementing SOA using WCF technology developed and consumed WCF services with features versioning, security, optimization and reliability.  • Analyzed the data, extracted from the different source systems based on the business rules.  • Hosted WEB API manually to provide multiple end points, which can then be used by other modules.  • Worked with WCF Service Contracts, Data Contracts, Operation Contracts, Instance Modes and Security of the services.  • Made AJAX calls between front/back-end for real-time updates to web applications.  • Involved in running the Bower and Grunt components.  • Involved in creating, deploying and managing reports using SSRS.  • Creation of Database, table spaces, schema objects and stored procedures.  • Developed various backend application programs such as Table, Views, Functions, Triggers, Procedures and Packages using SQL Server.  • Created SQL Server Reports for Management using SSRS, Tasks included defining requirements, design, develop, test, implement and maintain reports using SSRS.  • TFS is used for maintaining the version control of the code actively involved in updating the TFS tasks.  • Documented end points to Swagger, and used Postman to see JSON response from API.  • Managed and maintained the Workforce department inventory  • Daily SCRUM meetings and weekly technical review meetings.    Environment: AngularJS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, Asp.Net, MVC, Entity Framework, Ajax, C#, VB.Net, Web API, Web Forms, WPF, WCF, JSON, SSRS, SQL Server, TFS. .Net Developer Transunion - Roswell, GA February 2011 to September 2013 Description: GE HealthCare IT utilizes agile methodology, with monthly iterations and weekly deliveries of code. This Application allows the User to create Inpatient Authorization, Outpatient Authorization and Outpatient Referral cases. Additionally, the system will provide the capability to view Member information and provide functionality to take the User to other required systems.  Responsibilities:  • Gathered User Requirements, designed the Framework using UML that included identifying the use cases and its surroundings, drawing use case diagrams, identifying classes, drawing class diagrams and sequence diagrams. Also, involved in the Database design.  • Created sequence and class diagrams using MS Visio.  • Worked on SQL Queries, Triggers, Backup and Restore Database, defining roles, creating database users, Assigning Roles to users using SQL Server.  • Developed the application using C#.NET, ASP.NET, JavaScript and ADO.NET.  • Involved in developing prototypes, cost and time estimating the application and delegating the task to the members of the team.  • Involved in developing prototypes, cost and time estimating the application and delegating the task to the members of the team.  • Implemented Web Service providing the business logic for new functionalities and logic to consume the existing web services.  • Created event driven Web Forms using ASP.NET and implemented form validation.  • Designed User Interface with CSS, and HTML.  • Done unit testing, integration testing and regression testing.  • Testing of database, queries optimization and performance.  • Writing user defined functions, stored procedures and views using SQL Server.  • Prepared and executed unit test plans for every module.  • Involved in writing Unit Tests using Moq for mock the respective layers.  • Used PVCS to version control the code and various artifacts.    Environment: Visual Studio, C#.NET, ADO.Net, Web Services, Web Forms, HTML, CSS, JavaScript .Net Remoting, MS Visio, Microsoft Project, Windows 2003, XML, SQL Server, PVCS. Software Engineer DHI Group, Inc - Centennial, CO June 2010 to January 2011 Projects: Employment and Administration  This project aims at developing an application using ASP.NET and HTML for Web Forms. Front page was extensively used with FTP clients to upload and transfer files. SQL Server was used as Database.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the overall Architecture, Coding and Design.  • Involved in UI Designing, Development and Testing of Web Forms using ASP.Net, C#, XML, ADO.Net and .NET Framework.  • Used JavaScript for Client-side Validations.  • Developed Business components and Data Access components in C#.  • Extensively used SQL for developing Database objects like Stored Procedures, DTS Packages, Triggers, Cursors, Tables and views and other SQL joins for accessing the information and creating database objects from SQL Server 2005 Database.    Environment: C#, .Net Framework 2.0, ASP.Net, HTML, ADO.NET, XML, JavaScript, SQL, Java Script and Visual Studio 2003. Education Bachelor's Skills Ado, Database, Ado.net, Sql server, Oracle