Software Engineer, MGH, Massachusetts <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer, MGH, Massachusetts Malden, MA • Skilled .NET developer with 5 years of experience in a complex development environment  • Demonstrated track record of designing, developing, and implementing applications throughout the software development lifecycle  • Possess in-depth knowledge of C#, data structures and algorithms, and strong understanding of domain driven design, Design Pattern.  • Experience with development life-cycle and Agile methodology.  • Posses in depth knowledge of SQl, StoreProcedure, Function, trigger of MSSQL    • Self-motivated, willing to learn new concepts and determined to deliver productive high quality. Work Experience Software Engineer, MGH, Massachusetts April 2017 to Present • Develop web application used as interface for providing phone or video consulation by physician to referring hospitals  • Experience in Clinical Domain and worked closely with physician, nurse for requirement analysis.  • Develop generic workflow for the different service line  • Worked in telehealth Domain  • Experience with TDD Approach  • Experience with Domain Driven Design.  • Experience building application using Telerik UI  • Experience with UnitTesting(nunit using just mock)  • Experience with Code First Approach of Entity Framework  • Experience with Dapper Micro ORM  • Build application using HangFire scheduling the job.  • Develop application using MVC architectural Design.  • Implement decorative design pattern and Command Design pattern  • Worked in Agile work environment  • Experience with MSSQL  • Develop Automation testing using Test Studio  • Develop business logic for the application  • Experience Elmah error logger. Software Engineer Exolutus Nepal - Kathmandu, NP January 2015 to April 2016 • Involved in various phases of SDLC like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Use MVC, Singleton, factory design pattern.  • Experience with developing REST Web Api  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures and triggers, functions to perform back end database operation.  • Developed database schema for the business requirement.  • Experience in LLBL Gen ORM Framework.  • Develop unit test cases for testing the functional.  • Develop the reporting using SSRS.  • Worked in Agile work environment with content management system for workflow management.  • Developed the application using Kendo UI, .NET MVC  • Experience in Javascript, AJAX, JQUERY  • Implemented Manual functional testing Software Developer Luniva Tech - Kathmandu, NP January 2013 to January 2015 • Develop window and web application  • Worked on Finance, Restaurant, Library Domain  • Experience on winform of .NET framework  • Developed Store Procedure, Trigger, Function, Database schema  • Develop Crystal Report  • Implemented in Repository Pattern, Singleton Pattern, Factory Pattern  • Design and develop window forms  • Developed Business logic for application. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Key Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA December 2017 Bachelor of Computer Engineering in Key Tribhuvan University - Kathmandu, NP Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, C++