Technical Services Developer Technical Services <span class="hl">Developer</span> Technical Services Developer Chisago City, MN Focused and detail-oriented Software Engineer offering exceptional troubleshooting skills and a talent for developing  innovative solutions to unusual and difficult problems. Has multiple years of direct customer experience and interfacing  with different technical levels. Excited to learn new and challenging languages and technologies that push the  envelope of what's possible with software. Work Experience Technical Services Developer Infinite Campus - Blaine, MN March 2015 to July 2019 Used Java 7, MSSQL, Javascript, JQuery, and HTML  ? Worked directly with customers to gather requirements and establish timelines  ? Wrote and maintained the Data Import website used by customers and internal teams  ? Maintained and expanded the API used by the data services team  ? Developed custom data import utilities for customers using Java 7 and MSSQL  ? Converted new customers existing data into Infinite Campus' data scheme  ? Maintained and developed tools for the data migration process using Java  ? Developed process and plan documentation for the migration team  ? Implemented procedures for deployment of code across multiple servers  ? Lead the migration progress into GIT and implemented a branching structure used for deployments  ? Mentored other employees in programming and processes Application Developer Multi-tech Systems - Mounds View, MN October 2013 to March 2015 Used Java, PHP, MSSQL, MySQL, C#, JQuery, and HTML5  ? Administered LAMP and Microsoft 2012 Servers  ? Implemented a documented development process  ? Implemented GIT introduced processes of change management control  ? Assisted in evaluations of content management systems for a website overhaul  ? Optimized existing MSSQL and MySQL databases and servers  ? Developed complex report queries in MSSQL and MySQL Software Engineer Multi-tech Systems - Mounds View, MN June 2011 to October 2013 Used Java, PHP, MySQL, C, C++, Javascript, JQuery, HTML, and Ruby  ? Maintained Ubuntu Servers with LAMP configurations  ? Developed bug fixes and feature updates for the company's support website  ? Developed new features for legacy products  ? Assisted customers in installation and support cases  ? Produced customer reports and analytics  ? Administered database servers for the support team Education Master of Science in Software Engineering University of Minnesota - Minneapolis, MN May 2014 Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering Minnesota State University - Mankato, MN May 2011 Skills Java (6 years), HTML (8 years), Linux (3 years), SQL Server (6 years), jQuery (4 years), Javascript (8 years), SQL (6 years), XML, MySQL (3 years), ETL (4 years), Database Management (6 years), Databases (8 years), c# (2 years), .NET (2 years), PHP (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License