NET Developer NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> NET Developer - Citibank • Having 8+ yrs of experience working as a Dot net application developer using .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0. ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#.NET and VB.NET.  • And of experience in developing User Interface applications and professional web application using HTML 4.0, CSS2/CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, AngularJS and Bootstrap  • Proficient in developing Web based front end using Master Pages, Themes, Skins, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript and ASP.NET Custom Controls.  • Worked with SQL server as the backend and have knowledge in writing stored procedures in SQL Server.  • Dealt with creation of WCF Web services in WCF Framework.  • Significant knowledge in developing single-page applications (SPAs) using Bootstrap.  • Experience to Model-View-Controller (MVC) Architecture technology.  • Experience in using JQuery and JavaScript to develop dynamic web applications for enhanced user experience.  • Worked extensively in creating authentication and authorization using windows and forms authentication for Membership, Profiles and Role Providers  • Have excellent problem solving and troubleshooting skills, analytical and multi-tasking capabilities.  • Designed applications using Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) artifacts like Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams, Data Flow diagrams using UML.  • Strong experience in data retrieval and manipulation using ADO.NET data objects such as Dataset, Data Reader, Data list, Data Adaptor, Entity Frame work.  • Experience in developing large scale IT enterprise products used by multinational clients with business understanding in Healthcare, Financial, Telecom Domains.  • Good Knowledge of database design & development, which includes: creating tables, indexes, triggers, views, performance tuning using SQL.  • Experience with Software Development Processes & Models: Waterfall, Agile using SCRUM.  • Have Good communication, team oriented and interpersonal skills, Quick Learner, Exceptional Team player. Work Experience NET Developer Citibank - Jersey City, NJ March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Developed ASP.NET based web application using C#.NET and using MVC 4 REST Web API.  • Involved in the utilization of Telerik controls; Javascript, JQuery and Angular JS for client side validations.  • Utilized ADO.NET Entity Framework technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ.  • Utilized LINQ to interact with the SQL Server database 2008 for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using Entity Data Model.  • Involved in the development of SQL queries with Joins on multiple tables, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, and Indexes using SQL Server 2008.  • Implemented Generic classes for Business Layer and Data Access Layer using C#.  • Development of complex stored procedures and SQL queries using SQL Server for extracting, inserting and manipulating the data and display on Grid view controls and dropdown list boxes and User controls  • Developed WCF services to enable effective communication between SOA.  • Developed various screens in C#.NET for selecting reports parameters and generating reports with ability to export, e-mail, and print reports in various formats.  • Created and Maintained SSIS packages to Import/Export data from flat files, XML, Excel and SQL Server.  • Using HP Quality Center 11 to communicate and track the defects during various phases of testing.  • Performing unit testing and integration testing for the application and coordinating with performance testing team for load testing the application.  • Involved in the co-ordination with release management and business user testing teams on the successful roll-out of the applications.    Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, C#.NET, ASP.NET MVC, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS, SSIS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS 4, AJAX, XML, WCF, LINQ, SQL Server 2012, HP Quality Center. NET Developer Citibank - Jersey City, NJ October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibility:  • Interact as Lead developer to handle the Static Build Team.  • The SBT will report the SQl Injection attacks and Cross-site scripting attacks related issue are handled.  • Involved in Server migration independently like Windows Server 2003 to Windows Server 2012 with new hardware support.  • All the CCMS Applications are migrated and Support to latest Hardware and Running environment.  • Some of the components are remapped and support to latest running environment.  • Involved in CCMS14.2, 14.3, 15.1, 15.2 and 15.3.1 releases and building the report generating components like ClientListingReport, CitiMapperConfiguration, Timeout Email Notification  • Performed design, application development and deployment within the .NET architecture based on programming guidelines/standards.  • Designed reusable classes and methods in the business layer and the Data Access Layer and implemented those classes using Visual C#.NET.  • Used Java Scripting for client-side validation scripting.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, functions, views and Stored Procedures using SQL Server for backend development.  • Used C#.NET in Three-Tier application (UI, Business Logic and Data Access layers), Class Libraries.  • Involved in integrating the application and build  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing  • Involved all the phases of software development life cycle.  • Involvement in creating design work objects & writing test cases for related modules.  • Perform data analysis for the new requirements for various client configurations.  • Develop modules with efficient coding and unit testing.  • Reviewing of the defects fixed-Status update of the defects.  • Interact with customer for weekly status call    Technology: Windows Server, IIS 8.5, ASP.NET, C#, ASP.NET framework 4.5, ADO.NET, Web Service, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, Microsoft Visual Studio 2010, SQL 2012, SSIS., WCF Service, MVC5, Winodw Server 2012 Software Engineer Links March 2013 to September 2015 India    Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed the User Interactive web pages using web technologies like HTML5/HTML, XHTML, and CSS3/CSS as per company's standards.  • Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, XHTML and CSS3.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed web application prototype using Angular.JS and modified and implemented functionalities using Angular.js  • Used Bootstrap for responsive design which gives rich user interface on any device.  • Created reusable Modules using the built in features like Factories, Routes, Dependency Injections and MSC architectures offered in Angular JS.  • Created CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  • Used JQuery to select and manipulate HTML elements and also CSS manipulation.  • Worked on AngularJS, which combines web applications with Model View Controller capability to make development and testing of code efficient.  • Used JQuery mainly for adding several functionalities to the application (calendar, tooltips, popover, hiding elements validation, making Ajax calls, etc.)  • Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Followed Agile methodology and actively participated in standup meetings and sprint planning.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panel to manage the post back of the web page to server, AJAX Script Manager and Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files.    Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2010, C#.NET 5.0, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, LINQ, XML, SQL Server, AJAX, ENTITY FRAMEWORK, WCF, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, ANGULAR JS 4, VB.NET. NET Developer/Production Support Anixter India Pvt. Ltd July 2010 to March 2013 India    Responsibilities:  • Developed and implemented the web page interfaces  • Created ASP.NET pages using C#.NET for middle-tier processing of client requests with ADO.NET interfaces for database and implemented stored procedures.  • Used ADO.NET and data objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, Dataset, data table for consistent access to SQL data sources.  • Developed the custom error pages and Error Handling  • Implemented appropriate Win Forms error handlers so that user can experience user friendly messages for exceptions.  • Used Oracle 9i as RDBMS to create and maintain Tables, Procedures and Views.  • Implemented Session state management  • Migrated the functionality from existing asp pages to new aspx pages and also added new functionality to reflect the Business Users requirements.  • Participated in meetings with Business users and with other project teams to ensure that the volatile business requirements reflect in the project development    Environment: ASP, HTML, VB-Script, Java Script, Crystal Reports 6.0, IIS, Oracle, Windows 2000/NT. Skills .NET (9 years), ADO (9 years), ADO.NET (9 years), ASP (9 years), ASP.NET (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming C#.NET, VB.NET, ASP.NET, C, C++, XML, LINQ-XML, VB 6.0, PL/SQL, T-SQL  Platforms  Microsoft .NET Framework 3.5/2.0/1.1/1.0, ADO.NET object model, ASP.NET 4.0/3.5/2.0/1.1, ASP 3.0 (Classic ASP), AJAX, Java Script, VB Script, XHTML, HTML, Cascading Style Sheet (CSS), Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular 4, Motion Voice Control, Workflow Foundation, Web Services, WCF, SSIS/SSRS    Databases MS-SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000, MS-Access 2000/97, Oracle 10g/9i.  Tools  Visual Studio 2008/2005/2003, VSS 6.0/2005, Microsoft Visual Source Safe 6.0, Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS), CVS, MS-Project 2007    Server Technologies IIS 6.0, IIS 5.0, IIS 4.0  .NET Technologies ASP.NET, WEB SERVICES, WCF & ENTITY FRAMEWORK