UI Software Developer UI <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Software Developer - Century Link, UT Salt Lake City, UT • Java UI Professional with around 6+years' experience in developing and designing UI and backend components for Web Based Internet/Intranet, Multi-tier distributed applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies and various open source frameworks.  • Strong in Object Oriented programming using Core Java, and good experience in multithreading, exceptions, collections.  • Experience in Oracle cloud, AWS and Century link Cloud.  • Artificial intelligence algorithms development for search and analyze operations  • Well experienced on web technologies which include HTML4, HTML5, CSS2, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML and AJAX  • Good Understanding in cloud virtualization technologies, Security Firewall, IDS/IPS, antivirus, SPAM filtering and WEB filtering.  • Hands-on experience with all aspects of technology including Business Requirements, Technical Architecture, Design Specification, Development and Deployment.  • Hands on experience in user interface development frameworks like Angular JS 2.0/4.0 and above, Bootstrap JS and Ionic UI  • Designing tools like Adobe Photoshop, icon flow online icon creator holding all design in Zepelin  • Experienced in designing and implementing Web Services, Banking, Healthcare and Insurance Application domains.  • Strong skills in object oriented programming (OOP) with use of Polymorphism, Abstraction, Inheritance and Encapsulation.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), OOPS using Unified Modeling Language (UML), Design Patterns, MVC Frameworks.  • Solid understanding on IOC (Inversion of Control), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), MVC, DAO, Front Controller and Singleton.  • Followed agile methodology in project development.  • Developed enterprise Java application and deployed them on WebLogic server.  • Database skills include creating tables and views.  • Well versed in GIT, Clear case version control tools. GIT hub and Used GIT Bash for code reviews and upgrade of applications.  • Good understanding of SIT (system integration testing) using Clear Quest and ALM tools for development.  • Very proficient with real Quench for Java development & Web based Applications.  • Familiarity with build/deployment tools e.g. ANT, Maven, and Jenkins  • Excellent team player and can also work independently.  • Knowledge on Spring MVC and Hibernate frameworks.  • Has strong communication and interpersonal skills and is a committed team player.  • Willing to update my skills and knowledge and increase my productivity.  • Used agile and Scrum software methodology for project development.  • Self-starter and a team player with good interpersonal skills.  • Strong skills in planning and executing the functionality of application.    Skills and Knowledge:    Programming HTML, HTML5, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, Extended JavaScript, C, C++, Visual Basic, SQL, Shell Script, Node, COBOL, PHP, Backbone  JS Frameworks Angular JS 2.0/4.0, Node.JS, Bootstrap-JS, Backbone-JS, React.Js, NVD3.js (Pie and graphical). Char.js plug-ins  SOA Web Services, REST, SOAP, WSDL,  Databases Oracle 10g, DB2, SQL Server, My SQL Work Experience UI Software Developer Century Link, UT July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Interacting with team members to define business requirements and scope of the project. Implementing Single Page Application (SPA) architecture and client side MVC on node server using Angular and UI-Web component-based architecture.  • JavaScript to handle the basic logics and bind the Event Handlers. Typescripts and web pack for web components.  • Parse Json response of data from API on to the Dashboard in Angular 6 and Typescripts.js, UI Router to create different hierarchy structure in single page application.  • Modified the reusable service components using Angular JS services with JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS3 based on the visual designs.  • Involved in developing various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Used Angular $http to send GET/POST request to fetch data from API server.  • Updated and maintained the code base version control system using Git Hub  • Developed various UI components using Angular JS, JSON and HTML5.Created forms to collect data and post data  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular 6 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form valuators.  • Custom maps using Google-map API for sensor location with custom markers passing latitude and longitude of the sensor.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 6.  • AngularJS dependency injection to inject different services just like custom services and create some custom directives to do some reusable component.  • Asynchronously fetch data from backend to the frontend by using promises which include $http and $q service.  • Optimizing API calls on the application for independent page load and cross browser multi resolution test.  • Check API end-point using POSTMAN tool to check for responses from the end-point in passing required headers    Internal-Portal:  • Gather user requirement and implement using JQuery, JavaScript, html, CSS, Ajax.  • Parse JSON response for overall view and description for various customers on the dashboard.  • Used implementation of charts.js plug-in to integrate with water scan data and generate graphs with peak value detection for metals using chart.js plug-in  • Used various plug-in in implementation to make it accurate and user friendly like bootstrap-date picker, JQuery-Full calendar, JQuery validation and data tables to keep application responsive.  • Building web browser terminal using xterm.js and node modules with npm for browser based    Environment: Angular 6, Git Hub, JIRA, JavaScript, SQL Server, Windows Server, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Bootstrap, Jenkins, EC2-Amazon Cloud. UI Developer CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield - Owings Mills, MD August 2017 to May 2018 Description: This project allows the web pages to experience adaptive design. This allows for the pages to flex and optimize the screen based on the customer's screen size thereby displaying additional products and / or features on a page. The first phase includes the Home page, header and footer, Search results page, Vertical and Super category pages.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Responsive Html web pages using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, J2ee, JSON, Node.JS, Redux and JavaScript.  • Created mobile first web app to display executive reports of mission critical data and visualizations from Tableau server integration using AngularJS, Tableau JavaScript API and Restful web services.  • Used AngularJS to run the JavaScript code within the user's web browsers to implement a reactive user interface (UI).  • Used AngularJS extensively to customize the functionalities.  • Used Foundation Framework like frameworks like Jasmine, Protractor, Karma, Ionic Grid system to make web page responsive.  • Used In Vision this allows you to efficiently and simply create interactive mockups for your wireframes and designs.  • Actively participated in agile daily scrum, Planning meeting, Back log grooming and sprint retrospective.  • Wrote client Side code using Angular JS and used NPM (Node Package Manager) & gulp directories to generate the server environments used browser fly, flux to manage with targeted URL's (Uni-Directional data flows) and to monitor the application. Hands On with SQL database  • Development was done on Agile methodology with rapid turnarounds.  • Created our own Custom Angular 2 directives.  • Creating reusable and configurable software components  • Worked on Enhancement stories and defect fixing.  • Worked on Validating UI with Angular 2 Directives.  • Used Git-hub and Jasmine for code check-in and checkout.  • Used tools ALM and JIRA for defect tracking and updating the status of defects.  • Extensively worked on DOM manipulation using AngularJS, Node.JS, JavaScript, and JQuery.    Environment: Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, ES5, ES6, JavaScript, J2ee, ECMA6, JQuery, RESTful, Java, Web pack, ALM ,JIRA, React JS, HLS Gulp, Git and Node.js UI Developer PNC bank, Pittsburg August 2016 to July 2017 Description: This project is developed mainly to serve the huge domain of customers. The application also allows bank employees to open a new account for customers or access, modify the customer account information based upon their role. The application offers various functionalities, some of the them include Transfer Funds, make a Payment, set up Automatic Payments, Keep the Change, Receive the bills electronically, Request E-mail Notifications, Balance Enquiry. Etc.    Responsibilities:  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML and CSS.  • Web designing & development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ReactJS, Angular2/4 and Ajax.  • Developed ReactJS pages, Web services calls, and AJAX calls for the application.  • Used ReactJS in components like JSX, creating React components.  • Used bootstrap and Angular for creating rich, Responsive UI screens for varying screen sizes and devices.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create Single Page Applications, which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements.  • CSS styles were developed to preserve the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Used JavaScript functions to get dynamic data and Client side validation. Involved in usage of MVC pattern utilizing AngularJS, NodeJS, JSF and Spring Controller.  • Expertise in PHP session variables and cookies implementation.  • Implemented automated Frontend workflows using Gulp, NPM & Web pack.  • Responsible for design and development for web pages from mock-ups (PSD)  • Implemented client side interface using ReactJS  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React - Draggable.  • Initiated JavaScript work with a series of custom JQuery plugins and functions.  • Used web-based GIT repository manager with issue tracking features.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to Git Hub.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from MongoDB for the application on devices.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE6.  • Used Jasmine and Karma as end-to-end testing tools for debugging and software quality insurance    Environment: AngularJS, React JS, JQuery, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, GULP, GRUNT, Jasmine, Karma, MongoDB, Eclipse, XHTML, DOM, RESTful, SASS, JQuery plugins. UI Developer Fidelity National Finance - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Development and Implementation of various technologies like Java, Servlets, JSP, Html5, Hibernate, Spring-MVC, Maven and Spring-IOC.  • Designed and developed CRM web applications using JSP, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Designed UI architecture for a very complex Web 2.0 portal using DOJO and JQuery.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the Business and the management to review.  • Created Hibernate mapping files for Java classes using table per class hierarchy strategy. Defined Ext.JS (UI Layer) Architecture and Design screen mock-up using Ext.JS.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML5 and CSS3 according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Developed pages using Responsive Design with cross browser compatibility  • Developed the React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable)  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.  • Worked on backend validations on the service layer of the application using J2EE in testing process.  • Involved in Testing and fixing bugs and documented the application step-by-step process.  • Writing JavaScript for Node JS applications that are useful for interacting with server and network applications.  • Worked on JQuery mobile, which is based on HTML 5 for designing user interfaces for web applications.  • Worked on JavaScript OOP, Selenium, and Cucumber JS for synchronization of data.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used React-auto complete for creating Google maps location search on the webpage.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the Git Hub API through keywords.    Environment: HTML5, DHTML, React js, Web pack, Git, NodeJS, XHTML, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, JSP, J2EE, AJAX, JavaScript, Spring MVC, JSTL. Software/UI Developer Technik Inc - Arlington, VA June 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Built more user-interactive web pages using jQuery plug-ins, AJAX, JavaScript, and Angular JS.  Implemented different validation control on the web pages using AngularJS.  • Developed a well responsive single page application using ReactJS, JavaScript, Redux, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3/ SASS.  • Developed responsive applications using Bootstrap, Require JS and Node JS which allowed the same application to be optimized for both mobile and desktop resolutions.  • Developed human resource management system application using backend Web API and front-end in object oriented JavaScript framework Angular.js with bootstrap as user interface.  • Designed and developed multi-protocol telecom Single-Page Architecture application using Node.js,  • Express and Jade on the backend, Backbone.js on the front end, and web sockets using Socket.IO for communication between client and server.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using JavaScript, HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JSP, AJAX and MySQL.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, JQuery, DHTML, Web Service call and JSON.  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML5 with index db, Web storage XHTML, and CSS3.  • Used Ajax, JSON with JQuery for request data and response processing.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Backbone.js, Angular.js, Ember.js, Can.js, and JQuery.  • Experience with Performance Tuning for Oracle RDBMS using Explain Plan and HINTS.  • Worked on Rational Application Developer, WebSphere Integration Developer, BEA WebLogic Workshop, Eclipse, and ILOG Rules Studio for Java.  • Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle.  • Extensive experience as ETL (AbInitio/Unix/Teradata/DB2/Oracle) - Designer, Developer and Performance Tester alongside with intermediate experience in Big Data Hadoop Technologies like Hive/PIG/Sqoop/Git Hub/Hbase and HDFS commands.  • Worked with IDE as Eclipse Indigo and deployed into Oracle WebLogic Application Server & used Maven build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  • Experienced in the use of agile approaches including Test-Driven Development and Scrum.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.  • Implemented all the CRUD operations using JPA query language. Worked on PL/SQL and created views, triggers, procedures, function and stored procedures.    Environment:  UI, UX, Angular.js, React.JS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Ajax, Bootstrap.JS, backbone.JS, CSS3, HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, PL/SQL, Node.JS, Oracle, JDBC, Eclipse, WebLogic, GIT, Agile, MAVEN UI Developer Angular JS December 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Redesigned the existing conversation module with AngularJS per the client requirements.  • Developed all the UI pages using AngularJS, HTML, Node.JS, DOM, CSS, JSON, J2ee, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  • Front End development utilizing HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript leveraging the Bootstrap framework and Java / SQL backend.  • Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP Pages.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Built templates - slicing and coding Photoshop comps using hand coded HTML / XHTML /HTML5 and CSS, CSS3.  • Worked on JavaScript OOP, Selenium, and Cucumber JS for synchronization of data.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Implemented the system using Eclipse, SQL Developer.    Environment: AngularJS 1.4, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, XML, SAX, JAXB, Web Sphere 6.1, My Eclipse, Toad. UI Developer Angular JS - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to May 2014 Description:  Description: Analytics Quotient Services India Pvt. Ltd. (InfoTech IT), part of the InfoTech Enterprises group, leverages its business process knowledge, technological competence, strategic alliances and strong global presence to offer innovative IT solutions to the Retail Industry.    Responsibilities:  • Redesigned the existing conversation module with AngularJS per the client requirements.  • Developed all the UI pages using AngularJS, HTML, Node.JS, DOM, CSS, JSON, J2ee, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  • Front End development utilizing HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript leveraging the Bootstrap framework and Java / SQL backend.  • Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP Pages.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Built templates - slicing and coding Photoshop comps using hand coded HTML / XHTML /HTML5 and CSS, CSS3.  • Implemented user interfaces using HTML and JSP.  • Implemented the system using Eclipse, SQL Developer.    Environment: AngularJS 1.4, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, XML, SAX, JAXB, Web Sphere 6.1, My Eclipse, Toad. Skills ECLIPSE, DREAMWEAVER, OOAD, UML, BSD, LINUX, UNIX Additional Information Operating Systems Windows Family, BSD, Unix, Linux  IDE Eclipse 3.x, Net Beans 6.x, Dreamweaver, sublime, web storm  Methodologies OOPS/OOAD, Agile, UML, Waterfall.