PES- Software Engineer PES-<span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer PES- Software Engineer - Power BI Bellevue, WA • Around 7 years of IT experience in Microsoft Business Intelligence, Data warehouse, SQL Server, SQL Server  Integration Services, SQL Server Analysis & Reporting services, Power View, Azure Data Factory, Azure data  Lake & Informatica.  • Created a server auto-inventory asp.net Core MVC web app with microservices backend that automatically, physically locates as well as inventories deployed hardware down to the component level, tracks FW and salient server information and an SCCM instance for Azure Cloud Server Infrastructure org.  • Setup and optimized monitoring solutions as well as PowerShell automation for various windows infrastructure (DHCP, SQL servers, clusters of various types).  • Set up Azure Active Directory authentication solutions and Azure Key vault solutions to allow for JIT auth  • Developed custom asp.net rest Api's with both https using the Gest, Post, Put, and delete options which were secured by Azure Active Directory Oauth V2  • Worked with Developing PowerShell modules and C# classes to act as REST API clients for automation.  • Collaborated with external partners such as agencies to assist with data collection, reporting and A/B test development.  • Architected several SQL databases using TSQL with EF and a few MY SQL Databases with optimizes indexing to retrieve information quickly while also avoiding locks which were used for automation purposes.  • Experienced in designing SSIS packages to import and transform data between databases and external data sources using various transformations.  • Experienced in configuration and maintain Report Manager and Report Server for SSRS, Deployed and Scheduled the Reports in Report Manager  • Experienced in all facets of Software Development Life Cycle (Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and maintenance) using Waterfall and Agile methodologies.  • Expertise in creating reports from importing, Direct Query and Live data from several data sources.  • Good at developing and implementing reporting and data solutions, including custom user interfaces. In-depth understanding of all stages of software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Build and maintain SQL scripts, indexes, and complex queries for data analysis and extraction. Provide database coding to support business applications using Sybase T-SQL.  • Extracting, transforming and loading data (ETL) between various Homogenous and Heterogeneous data  sources using SSIS, Informatica PowerCenter and Azure DataFactory and worked on improving ETL  performance.  • Experience in SQL Server database objects development including Stored Procedures, Functions, Views,  Triggers, CTE, Indexes, and Synonyms.  • Performing data quality analysis to ensure accuracy for data reconciliation.  • Developed ETL procedures to migrate data from an existing data warehouse to an integrated enterprise level data warehouse.  • Used different data sources like SQL, Analysis services, Excel to develop visuals. Performed data transformations, data cleaning on the data sets to generate meaningful reports. Provided story-based insights using Power BI reports and dashboards. Data aggregation using Excel, Pivot tables, SQL.  • Involved in creating dynamic well-organized, accurate an insightful Power BI reports/dashboard to support strategic decisions.  • Extensively worked on data exploration, data cleaning methods using R.  • Expert in Working on end to end project in Azure Environment by pulling the source da ta from SQL Server and storing the data in Azure SQL Server using Blob Storage and creating reports using Power BI Desktop. Also involved in migrating SQL data to KUSTO.  • Having good experience with using DAX and worked on analyzing the data using Excel and used excel data as data source for power bi reports.  • Worked with packages like ggplot2 and shiny in R to understand data and developing applications. And  • Worked on Tableau, Quick View to create dashboards and visualizations.  • Good written skills and technical writing skills, as well as an ability to ascertain what the customer needs for the environment.  • Learns new or different technologies rapidly in a completely self -driven and independent manner. Work Experience PES- Software Engineer Power BI - Bellevue, WA February 2018 to Present Description: Set up Modern infrastructure and then automated it across the R&D lab to assist in inventory location and bug detection across new -SKU or SKU-less EV,DV and PV servers,BMC devices and PMDUs. Then went on to create a web app for the lab engineers to access where a machine was, what it was,and its state so that they could source the right parts.Also implemented move-Tracking automation to see where components had been in the lab. This was then released to the whole org,at which point functionality was added to the app which would allow lab engineers to initiate needed automation at the click of the button via the webapp,such as re-imaging servers or re-scanning serversetc.    • Data Analysis: Analyzed the data and developed a set of dashboards using Power BI for the Consumer Marketing  Team that was consumed by Executives to make valuable business decisions.  • Reporting: Used different data sources like SQL, Analysis services, Excel to develop visuals. Performed data  transformations, data cleaning on the data sets to generate meaningful reports. Provided story-based insightsusing Power BI reports and dashboards. Data aggregation using Excel, Pivot tables, SQL  • Helped setup more production level infrastructure for mission-critical resources.  • Worked in creating a stable web MVC app and automation platform for the team to manage R7D devices with the custom Csi BMCs, while working under the constraint of making it an "agentless' system.  • Involved in creating databases, the automation, and the C# code for this app.  • Creating Rest Apis in the case of a service bus and set up the message broker to communicate between all the services and webapp.  • Set up Azure Active Directory authentication solutions and Azure Key vault solutions to allow for JIT auth.  • Also creating the Rest Apis in case of the service bus breakdown, as well as to allow rest API automation across the data.  • Using rest API endpoints to communicate with the BMC devices, as well as PowerShell and C3 SDKs for infrastructure like SCCM, to automate on the servers.  • Created Stored procedures, SQL backup solutions, as well as Entity Framework Core Code For working with data bases.  • Set up Azure Active Directory authentication solutions and Azure Key vault solutions to allow for JIT auth.  • Also creating the Rest Apis in case of the service bus breakdown, as well as to allow rest API automation across the data.  • Using rest API endpoints to communicate with the BMC devices, as well as PowerShell and C3 SDKs for infrastructure like SCCM, to automate on the servers.  • Maintained and kept tract of the GIT repository for the code.  • Documenting daily activities in the one note.  • Created Stored procedures, SQL backup solutions, as well as Entity Framework Core Code For working with data bases.  • Created a SOAP service to call Ticketing system from UI view.  • Involving in designing the Architecture by creating models and services for the web Portal  • Developing, testing and maintaining ETL procedures employing both ETL tools & custom PL/SQL  • Employing expression transformation to perform aggregation using expression variables  • Executing session runs more flexible through the use of mapping parameters & variables and using parameter files and variable functions to manipulate them  • Configuring the mappings to implement Slowly Changing Dimensions (Type-2) and Defining Target Load Order Plan and Constraint based loading  • Managing performance tuning of the process at the mapping level, session level, source level, and the target level Conducting production support duties on a 24/7 basis.  • Working with session logs, Informatica Debugger and Performance logs for error handling in case of workflow  • and session fails  • Coordinating with Business Intelligence Team to incorporate any changes that they need in the delivered files  • Working on legacy code tuning and debugging in order to make sure the code is updated as per latest.  • Expertise in publishing Power BI reports of dashboards in Power BI server and scheduling the dataset to refresh for live data in Power BI server.  • Used different data sources like SQL, Analysis services, Excel to develop visuals. Performed data  transformations, data cleaning on the data sets to generate meaningful reports. Provided story-based insights  using Power BI reports and dashboards. Data aggregation using Excel, Pivot tables, SQL.  • Worked in establishing the migration of data source connection between the Credit and collections power BI  • Created critical dashboards deep diving on critical finance KPIs- Total Budget related to the portal, Total Spend, Available & Forecast. This helped Microsoft Finance Leadership in making Budget decisions and resource management.  • Created customized insights with reporting abilities to understand trends through various stakeholder lenses.  • Presented the monthly amount spend across various Project IOs against the allocated budget.  • Automatic refresh scheduling for all the dashboards.  • Integrate the Power BI Dashboards with SharePoint for restricted view with key stakeholders.  • Maintained and kept tract of the GIT repository for the code and Documenting daily activities in the one note. Software Engineer Arterian - Redmond, WA January 2016 to February 2018 with Power BI    Description:The Project was based on Credit and Collections App which is available in AppSource. With the introduction of CDS-A integration, existing application in AppSource will be replaced with the new one. Current Power BI solutions template requires the user to provide their own Azure subscription and create an Azure SQL database. With the introduction of a storage component within Power BI, aka CDS-A, the legacy app which required deployment of a SQL DB etc. will no longer be available in AppSource. Objective of this work is to build, test and deliver the vNext of Credit & Collections Power BI App that leverages CDS-A platform for Dynamics 365. While this work would result in a much simpler experience for the Credit & collections App, it enables the customer to leverage Power BI to extend the solution and hydrates CDS-A platform with F&O data.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding the client's business processes and gathering technical requirement.  • Analyzing the KPI's based on the end user requirements and needs to develop dashboards using POWER BI.  • Worked on preparing for the development estimation time and technical design documents and setting up different environments.  • Worked with various types and stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) processes including Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  • Liaised with project management and development teams to identify and implement reporting, control, and automation opportunities to improve overall access to information.  • Involved in creating dynamic well-organized, accurate an insightful Power BI reports/dashboard to support strategic decisions.  • Developed SQL queries using stored procedures, common table expressions (CTEs), temporary table to support Power BI reports.  • Analyzed the KPI insights provided by the client using POWERBI DESKTOP.  • Develop business solution for financial reports like Sales opportunity, lead, forecast etc. Design and implement financial dashboard to track performance against measured KPI's.  • Design Power BI data sets, linking data sources and building data models to give insights of data to stakeholders to take the finance decisions.  • Creating critical measures like MOM, YOY and QOQ using DAX and R Script which helped the Finance key holders to understand the spent across key portfolios  • Created complex SQL views to support the business and operations for reporting.  • Building complex views for reporting using SQL, PLSQL (Procedures and Triggers) and Excellent experience in designing and developing Power BI reports, scorecards and dashboards.  • Involved in creating dynamic well-organized, accurate and insightful Power BI reports/dashboards to support strategic decisions.  • Collaborated with Business Analysts, SMEs and other BI developers across departments to identify existing report needs, new reporting requirements and translated them into deliverable solutions.  • Extracting business data from different OLTP systems and loads into data warehouse using SQL server Integration Services (SSIS)  • Worked on providing row level securities using power bi to restrict data access for various users.  • Expertise in publishing Power BI reports of dashboards in Power BI server and scheduling the dataset to refresh for live data in Power BI server.  • Worked in establishing the migration of data source connection between the Credit and collections power BI reports from SQL DB to the Azure blob storage and extracting the data.  • Created Azure Data Factory pipelines to pull data from various source like Azure DataLake,On Premise SQL Server and stage the data in Azure storage.  • Designed the ADF Pipeline in such a way that it can pull data from non-dependent tables or files in parallel enabling polybase.  • Created dependency using input and output datasets in ADF pipeline.  • Created logging to check the status of each pipeline and Data is moved to Azure Data WareHouse from azure storage.  • Created Stored Procedure to insert or merge records into main table and applied business rules wherever required.  • Involved in certificates to be renewed/ rotated and storage to be re-mounted into CDS-A without impacting Power BI reports.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) and Visual studio Team services (VSTS) to share all the work, code, to sort out the exceptions raised during work.  • Participating in Daily stand up Agile/Scrum meetings to discuss regarding the enhancements to be made for the existing requirements.  Finance Automation  • Created critical dashboards deep diving on critical finance KPIs- Total Budget, Total Spend, Available & Forecast. This helped Microsoft Finance Leadership in making Budget decisions and resource management.  • Created customized insights with reporting abilities to understand trends through various stakeholder lenses.  • Presented the monthly amount spend across various Project IOs against the allocated budget.  • Automatic refresh scheduling for all the dashboards.  • Integrate the Power BI Dashboards with SharePoint for restricted view with key stakeholders.  Procurement Operations Analytics  • Created visuals both high level and deep dives which represents month on month tickets volume, % volume change, request categorization, resolution time and tickets pending by days.  • Presented Trend analysis on the monthly amounts spend on cost centers.  • Populated all the dashboards using Power BI Calculated measures and SQL Queries.  Environment: SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio 2015, Microsoft Azure, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Power BI Desktop, Power BI service, Agile/Scrum, Power BI, SSIS, SSAS, Visio, MS Excel, and Windows. Software developer OUTSOURCING SERVICES Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2012 to December 2015 Description:As part of the Afriasia I was building and helping them with the web portal where all the information is added in the portal from the backend using the Databases and other software technologies.    • Developed system objectives, requirements, business models, user models, and business rules.  • Designed and validated the business processes of the application with use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams using UML 2.0 Enterprise Architecture  • Assisted in designing web application architectures to utilize and work within corporate security guideline.  • Designed and coded 3-tier applications with front-end development in MS VB.NET, C#. NET, ASP.NET, Microsoft SQL Server 2005.  • Designed and coded stored procedures in MS SQL Server 2005.  • Extensively used ADO.NET technology to get advantage of disconnected data programming using technologies like Datasets, Data Adapter, Data Reader, Data Tables, Data View and Data Grid.  • Experienced with Development and Testing of Restful Services based on Specifications.  • Analyzing different user requirements and coming up with specifications for the various database applications  • Created Request/Response classes to abstract the underlying database model from the API payloads.  • Worked in creating different organization content pack, and service packs  • Writing Unit test across the layer including API controllers.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) to share all the work, code, to sort out the exceptions raised during work.  • Provided daily Status Updates on work completed and the progress. Skills Ado, Database, Ado.net, Ms sql server, Sql server Additional Information SKILLS:  Programming Languages: C#.Net (4.0), C# .Net core# with Unity, HTML, T-SQL, JavaScript, SML, PowerShell, R script  Database: MS SQL Server 2016/2017, My SQL, KUSTO,Knowledge on SAP HANA  Operating Systems: Windows Server 2016,2016RS4, XP. Windows 7&8.  Web Technologies: ASP.NET Core 2.0,2.2, ASP.NET MVC 2.X, JavaScript, jQuery, Razor Script, JSON, XML.  IDE Tools: Visual Studio 2015/2017,2019, SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server BI studio,T-SQL  Infrastructures: AD, DHCP, DNS, Hyper-V Servers, as well as knowledge of server hardware.  Reporting Tools: SQL Server Reporting Service, POWERBI, POWER BI online services, Power Apps, Tableau  Web services: Web APIs/REST, IO,Red fish apis,Microsoft Dynamics 365  Middleware: ADO.NET 4.5, Web Servers.  Concepts: AGILE, SDLC, Deep Learning, Reinforcement Learning, Supervised Learning.  Version Control: Git, Team foundation server Azure Devops.  Azure Azure AD, AZURE key Vault Services, AZURE VM services, Azure Data Lake, Azure Data Factory