Software .Net Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software .Net Developer - Wellsfargo Richfield, MN • 8 years of IT experience in Architecture, Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Code Review,  Testing, Huge Experience in developing applications for Health care and Manufacturing Domain.  • Possess strong business and software development methodologies/process knowledge including  Test-Driven Development (TDD), Agile Software Development Methods, and Iterative and  Incremental development methods, Scrum.  • Expert in Product Development, Large Scale Web Development, GUI desktop Application  Development, Enterprise and Client/Server Application Development using Object Oriented  Programming techniques, Agile Development, Relational Databases, C# and .NET.  • Proficient in coding applications using ASP.NET MVC 3,5, ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, WCF, WPF,  LINQ, AJAX, Web API, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML 5, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Kendo UI, Windows  Azure, implementing various .Net Architectures, Design Patterns (MVC), Object Oriented  Programming, Service-oriented architecture (SOA) applications and Agile Methodologies with  SDLC.  • Scaffolding engine for ASP.NET MVC models connecting to a database table and perform often  doing task such as Create, Retrieve, Update and Delete records.  • Knowledge of several Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory and MVC.  • Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications  using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, Type Script,  Angular 2.0, Angular 4, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, CSS Frameworks.  • Expertise in Angular 2.0 framework and its ability to create simple and scalable code for SPA.  • Worked extensively on Angular 2/ Typescript SPA domains.  • Created Unit Test with Karma-Jasmine.  • Experience in making Responsive Web Pages using Media Queries and Bootstrap, Material  Design light for styling mobile applications.  • Highly skilled at front-end engineering using Object-Oriented JavaScript.  • Well experienced in writing test cases in Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven  Development.  • Experience in using Chrome Developer Tools and Firebug for debugging and troubleshooting the  code.  • Experience in writing Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers using SQL.  • Experience in Selenium Web Driver, Selenium IDE and testing using C #.  • Worked in designing and configuration of Azure environment. Work Experience Software .Net Developer Wellsfargo - Minneapolis, MN January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing UI pages using Angularjs, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX  and JSON.  • Developed responsive web pages for smart devices using Bootstrap and media queries.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create Single Page Applications which can bind data to specific  views and synchronize data with server.  • Worked on creating log-in authentication modules using AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Extensively worked on custom directives with Pop-over and Pop-up functionalities with specific  requirements matched to the conditions.  • Used UI Router to create different hierarchy structure in single page application.  • Created custom directives and filters using AngularJS built-in $http service from controller through dependency injection.  • Created Angular service and integration with RESTful APIs.  • Used Angular $http to send GET/POST request to fetch data from server.  • Used open source library like Angular material to create customized components.  • Worked with Karma and Jasmine, supporting QA team to debug and write tests.  • Active participation throughout the entire SDLC from project inception, code development and elaborate testing of various modules.  • Involved in Agile/SCRUM process, attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  • Maintained the code using version control system like TFS.    Environment: Angularjs, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Restful APIs, MVC, DOM, UX, Eclipse, Agile, TFS, Karma, Jasmine.. Software .Net Developer Xerox - Webster, NY July 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Migration of code from ruby on rails to .Net framework using Angularjs.  • Followed agile development approach.  • Involved in designing and developing the HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, XML, and ASP.Net  MVC with C# using VS 2017.  • Created multiple WebAPI's to interact with the server.  • Migrated DB from MySQL to SQL server 2017.Created Procedures and tables.  • Using Entity framework for querying the database.  • Debugging, unit testing, resolving code issues.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for integrating, maintenance, reporting and Project tracking.  • Created Directives, Components, Factory's, Custom filters, Service's.  • Implemented two ways binding in Angularjs.  • Worked on the Reports in order to show the data on the UI screens.  • Implemented UI grid in Angularjs in order to show data, Filters, Sorting features.  • Developed the components for exception and error handling mechanisms.  • Implemented Admin Screens to Block Specific emails and domains.  • Developed Interfaces, Dependency Injection concepts, extensive Constructors.  • Extensively used Bootstrap for UI designs, UI popup Models to represent data.  • Implemented Responsive UI concepts so that the site is flexible.  • Worked on Azure environment making calls to get the blob from specific location.  • Working on create, update and delete of the blobs in Azure environment.    Environment: Design Patterns, MVC 5, C#, Kendo UI, AJAX, Java Script, Angularjs, Bootstrap, JSON, IIS, TFS, Web API, Visual Studio 2015, Azure, SQL Server. Senior FullStack .Net Developer Pharmerica - Tampa, FL September 2016 to May 2017 It is a rule from MEDI-CAL that all orders should have physician signed POS. To comply with this  requirement, we developed a website that would automate the process of generating letters from orders  received in LTC400 and would provide ability to Pharmacy Tech to fax them to respective physicians from the website. This website also provides ability to collate all orders by facility and resident for a given  prescriber. User can resend failed transmissions or change existing fax numbers.    Responsibilities:  • System Study, Requirement Analysis, Architecture, Design, POC, Development, Testing, Implementation & maintenance of the systems.  • Involved in all the levels of SDLC (from requirement gathering to Sign-off). Initially, I am the single  resource for system study, documentation, analysis, design and coding of the application for Proof of Concept.  • Created the Web Pages using ASP.NET MVC5, jQuery, Html 5, Java Script, CSS. XML, Stored  procedures and SQL Server 2014.  • Worked with QA Team to make sure the issues are clear.  • Used Team Foundation Server for integrating, maintenance, reporting and Project tracking.  • Consumed the third-party API like Open Text to send faxes.  • Developing windows service every daily in the morning To get records from LTC400 into SQL .  • Developed the components for exception and error handling mechanisms.  • Developed Interfaces, Dependency Injection concepts, extensive Constructors.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for source code management.  • Extensively Performed Web Form design and coding using Master Pages, Server Controls, User  Controls, CSS, JavaScript and HTML.  • Worked in designing and configuration of Azure environment.  • Migrated legacy applications to the Azure cloud platform.  • Experience with Microsoft Azure Services like IaaS Infracture as a Service and PaaS Platform as a service .    Environment: Design Patterns, MVC 5, C#, Kendo UI, AJAX, Java Script, AngularJS 2, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, IIS, TFS, Web API, XML, Visual Studio 2015, Azure, SQL Server, Open Text API. Senior FullStack .Net Developer Pharmerica - Tampa, FL March 2016 to August 2016 Pharmerica utilizes an internal call center to manage customer questions/requests after normal business  hours. The Phoenix After-hours POD (Pharmacy on Demand) receives approximately 18,000 calls per  month, each call is manually logged and forwarded (via fax) to the respective pharmacy at the end of each shift. This current process is very time and labor intensive. PMC management is requesting a new  web-based application to record and transfer requests electronically to reduce the manual effort to capture the call information and faxing to the applicable pharmacy, while increasing efficiency  surrounding record retention and search capability.    Responsibilities:  • Preparation of Detail Design document with prototypes and screen shots based on the System  Requirement documents. Used Microsoft Visio to create the flow diagrams.  • Developing Business, Data Access Components and user interface using MVC 4 with code behind in C#.NET.  • Designing and developing 3-Tier architecture involving Presentation Tier with MVC 4.5, ASP.NET, and IIS.  • Implemented design patterns like Factory and singleton pattern.  • Implemented logging concept while the customer caller we are saving into SQL the duration details.  • Used ASP.NET MVC 4, Razor with JavaScript, JQuery, HTML and Bootstrap for responsive  design.  • Extensively involved in .Net Exception Handling Management, Debugging and Tracing of Application.  • Architecting, design and implementing ASP.NET MVC AngularJS SPA web solutions with industry  best practices and design patterns.  • Developed system services SOA application platform for use by all web applications utilizing WCF  services and  • Helped in code reduction and increased ease of upgrade, scalability and enhanced performance with client caching using AngularJS.  • Implemented Web API in order to reach many clients.  • Migrated project from asp.net to Asp.net MVC.  • Created Interfaces, Dependency Injection concepts and extensive Constructors.  • Created an AngularJS add on lib that allows component developers to define and bind to W3C  Custom Elements (Web Components) from within AngularJS.    Environment: Visual Studio 2015, MVC 4, MSBI, AJAX, C#, ADO.NET Entity Framework, SQL Server  2008/2014, IIS 7.0, XML, LINQ, Lambda expressions, HTML, Java Script, AngularJS, Bootstrap, TFS, Azure Senior Full Stack .Net Developer Hussmann - Bridgeton, MO March 2015 to February 2016 The Energy Calculator is used to portray the consumption of energy by a store on their usage of various  types of refrigeration racks with options of selection of compressors on each rack. This tool contains  coefficients for all the compressors that are currently used by Hussmann in making its refrigeration  systems.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing and reviewing the business requirements, design document, use cases and functional  requirements document.  • Actively participated in team meetings, frequently communicate with client to clarify the business  requirements.  • Worked on session handling and implemented role based authentication.  • Implemented two master pages based on user roles. One for Administrators and another for regular  users. Site Map has been implemented for the master page menu.  • Developed web pages and business logic using C# and ASP.NET.  • Developed client side validations using jQuery.  • Implemented design patterns like Factory and singleton pattern.  • Used Ajax control tool kit, script manager, update panel and modal popup extender to generate a rich  User Interface.  • Extensively worked with C#.Net for creating classes of this application and Integrated with Razo  review Engine to create views.  • Extensively used client side storages like Index DB with relation DB.  • Used Index to insert, delete and update functionality.  • Created views with scaffolding method with default View models.  • Implemented Unit Testing for testing purpose    Environment: Visual Studio.Net 2013, MVC 4, Entity Framework, Bootstrap, Lambda expressions, C#.NET, SQL Server 2012, SSRS, JavaScript, IIS, Team Foundation Server, Web Services, XML, SOAP. Physician Packaging Pharmerica - Tampa, FL August 2014 to February 2015 Role: .NET Developer    Creating a Package where we retrieve look up data for Physician, Residents, Pharmacy and facility data from LTC400 and save into SQL database.    Responsibilities:  • Data analysis and data migration by transferring them using SSIS packages.  • Created SSIS packages to populate data from various data sources.  • Configured SSIS packages using Package configuration wizard to allow packages run on different  environments.  • Worked on the ETL documentation for the packages.  • Used Package Configurations to make use of same SSIS package in Dev/Testing/Prod Environments  • Created SSIS Jobs and scheduled Packages using SQL Server Management Studio for the Daily  Load.  • Developed Many User-defined Controls and Customized Data Grid in web pages.  • The methodology was agile methodology with Scrum meetings.  • Worked on the ETL documentation for the packages.  • Worked with QA Team to make sure the issues are clear.  • Used Team Foundation Server for integrating, maintenance, reporting and Project tracking.  Environment: C#, Business intelligence tools, visual studio 2012, ETL, Task scheduler, Team foundation  service (SSIS) SQL Server Integration Services, SQL Profiler. .NET Developer Pharmerica - Tampa, FL February 2014 to July 2014 This is a windows service which will trigger for everyone minute. It will check the time zone if current time  is matching with any of the time zone then this windows service generates the reports for updated and not  updated data which is differentiate by one column as Trans Status    Responsibilities:  • Designed the UI according to the specifications.  • Developed Many User-defined Controls and Customized Data Grid in web pages.  • The methodology was agile methodology with Scrum meetings.  • Developing windows service for everyone minute.  • Created Task Scheduler in the servers with runs for everyone minute.  • Developed Data access later Web service and consumed in the application.  • Analysis, design and development of Applications.  • Collecting inputs from the Client.  • Worked with QA Team to make sure the issues are clear.  • Used Team Foundation Server for integrating, maintenance, reporting and Project tracking.  • Used Data Reader and Data-set for data manipulations and database operations.  • Created Stored Procedures using SQL Server 2012.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET MVC, HTML5, Team foundation service, LINQ, LTC400, SQL Server 2012. .NET Developer OCTL - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to January 2014 Dealing a wide range of products required for the Oil Drilling and Exploration Industry.  Sourcing from production facilities that have earned worldwide recognition for the Quality of their products and services.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with Agile Methodologies to segregate the development tasks into various sprints.  • Performed Web portal re-write from classic ASP to ASP.Net MVC 4 and added some new  functionalities.  • Play active role in all SDLC stages - requirements gathering, analysis and design, development, testing, debugging, and implementing and deploying of application.  • Actively participate in design, development, and bug fixes.  • Used MVC design pattern along with JQuery to develop Web portal.  • Used Team Foundation Server for integrating, maintenance, reporting and Project tracking.  • Performed unit testing on every assigned task before sending it for User Acceptance Test.  • Documenting the analysis and technical specification for future reference.  • Developed SQL Server Triggers, Functions and Views.  • Worked with SSIS/SSRS packages to get the student progress counts in test locations.  • Performed code reviews for maintain the essential code integrity.    Environment: Visual Studio 2010, C#, MVC 4, Agile, XML, LINQ, jQuery, Entity Framework, SQL Server  2008 R2. .NET Developer AMS - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh June 2011 to May 2013 This is a web based application, comprises of various set of modules to capture the administrative and ship management functions for Ship Building Center staff. of the component and along with the status of the Purchase Order. Administrator will create/add users (employees), Managers and gives  privileges/access rights to them. Maintenance of the submarine and applying leave are done online based on their Roles and permissions.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the Design, Development and Delivery of all the modules.  • Actively attended team meetings, frequently communicated with business Analysts to clarify the requirements and worked with QA Team to make sure the issue is clear.  • Front-End development with hand coded HTML and CSS.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML and CSS, maintained the ASP.NET MVC with C#.NET and maintained the client side functionality using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Active directory objects were created and employees were authenticated using LDAP (Lightweight  Directory Access Protocol).  • Responsible for communicating with the Project manager regarding requirements gathering.  • Responsible for developing the business logic modules and testing activities.  • Responsible for weekly project status reporting.  • Developed Role Based Security for user access to the application.  Environment: MVC 3, Visual Studio 2008, Entity Framework, SQL Server 2008 R2, HTML, Lambda  expressions, LINQ, XML, CSS, JavaScript, C#, IIS. Education Bachelor's degree in Electronics and Communication in engineering Amrita School of Engineering - Bengaluru, Karnataka Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, Git, Html, Bootstrap, Typescript, Middleware, .net framework 4.0, Asp.net mvc 4, Wcf, Xml, Ado, Ado.net, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2005, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Sql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: C# , .NET Framework 4.0/4.5/5, SQL, HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script.    Web Technologies ASP.NET MVC 4/5, Angular JS 1.5/2,4,7,8 Java Script, JQuery, Bootstrap, Java Script,  TypeScript,  Middleware ASP.net Web services, WCF, ADO.NET, Web API, Entity Framework  Web Servers: IIS 6.0/7.0    Methodology: Agile SCRUM, Waterfall.  Tools: Visual Studio 2005/2010/2012/2013/2015/2017, SSMS, SQL Profiler, SQL  RDBMS: MS SQL Server 2005/2008R2/2012/2014/2017  Debugging tools: Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools.    Version controls: Team Foundation Server (TFS) and GIT Hub.  Clients Storage: Index DB  Testing Tools: Selenium Automation Testing using C#.