Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Walgreens Chicago, IL Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Walgreens - Deerfield, IL July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Design and implementation of front-end interface.  • Using Angular7 for client-side validations, Routing, API call and creating user interfaces with Angular Material, SCSS, TypeScript.  • Responsible for consuming the RESTFUL APIs.  • Involving in writing Angular components, pipes, modules, models, Interfaces.  • Worked for the access management (Key cloak) configuration.  • Worked on the Internationalization.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services.  • Used Lazy loading to improve the performance of the site  • Worked on the performance of the site.  • Worked with source version control tool GIT to manage the code repository.  • Participating in pair programming.  • Worked in designing Rich Internet Applications with the latest Front End Technologies.  • Worked on creating device responsive product.  • Used Electron to run the application.  • In the beginning of the project, worked on Angular4, Angular 6 and then switched to Angular7  • Participating in meetings with the end-clients to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them with the help of HTML5, SCSS, Angular7 and Typescript.  • Extensively used SCSS (Syntactically Cascading Style Sheet) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Reviewed customer feedback about the product.  • Fixed bugs using Angular Material and Typescript codes.  • Involved in reviewing the code before pushing it in developer branch.  • Responsible for solving the conflicts.  • Handled events using Typescript.  • Converting Wireframes in to webpage.  • Involving in architecting some of the modules of the application.  • Involving in analyzing the performance of the application and contributed towards its enhancements.  • Issue tracking and bug reporting using JIRA  • Closely working with the QA team to fix the defects and errors.  • Involving in Agile approaches and participating in Scrum meetings    Tools and Technologies: HTML5, Angular Material, SCSS, Node.js,Typescript,Angular7,Visual studio code.  Methodology: Scrum (Agile), JIRA  Repository: Git Sr. UI Developer Bowlero Corporation - Richmond, VA March 2018 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Converting angular application to ReactJS.  • Designed Rich UI Interface.  • Used ReactJS for client-side validations, Routing, API call and creating user interfaces with HTML5, SCSS, Bootstrap, typescript, Redux.  • Responsible for maintenance of applications with ReactJS and SCSS.  • Involving in writing React components, modules, Asynchronous calls.  • Creating Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services.  • Using gulp for compilation, concatenation, minification and creating build folder for SCSS, html files etc.  • Worked on the design of Parties and events Modules using typescript.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views.  • Worked with source version control tool GIT to manage the code repository.  • Solving Cross Browser Compatible issues for the different version of IE, Safari, Chrome, Firefox, and Opera.  • Participating in pair programming.  • Worked in ReactJS with React Redux library. Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Worked on creating device responsive and browser compatible web pages using Bootstrap components and SCSS.  • Participated in meetings with the end-clients to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them with the help of HTML5, SCSS and Typescript.  • Extensively using SCSS (Syntactically Cascading Style Sheet) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Reviewing customer feedback about the debugging issues, fixed bugs with HTML5 and Typescript codes and working on resolving browser compatibility issues.  • Performing unit test using Jasmine and Karma.  • Involved in architectural design for some of the modules of the application.  • Handling events using Typescript.  • Contributed towards product enhancements.  • Responsible for Converting the mockups in to webpage.  • Implemented wireframes(Figma) design in to webpage.  • To fix the defects and errors, worked closely with the QA team.  • Working on consuming RESTful API's using ReactJs.  • Involving in analyzing the performance of the application.  • Issue tracking and bug reporting using TFS.  • Participated in Scrum meetings and Involved in Agile approaches.    Tools and Technologies: HTML5, SCSS, Typescript, ReactJs, Redux, NodeJs , Visual studio 2015, TFS.  Methodology: Scrum (Agile) Sr. UI Developer Zuppudy - Piscataway, NJ January 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the front-end implementation.  • Using Angular2 for client-side validations and creating user interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript.  • Involve in writing Angular2components, directives, pipes, modules and Ajax calls.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services.  • Using gulp for concatenation and minification of CSS, JavaScript, html5.  • Applying the form validation in Angular2 to make the form validate.  • Working with source version control tool GIT to manage the code repository.  • Solving Cross Browser Compatible issues for the different version of IE, Safari, Chrome, Firefox, and Opera.  • Working on creating device responsive and browser compatible web pages using Bootstrap components and CSS3.  • Participated in meetings with the end-clients to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them with the help of HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Working on CSS to design the navigation, gradient background and used other style properties to enhance the look of the web page.  • Reviewed customer feedback about the debugging issues, fixed bugs with HTML5 and JavaScript codes and working on resolving browser compatibility issues.  • Performing unit test using Jasmine and Karma.  • Handling events using JavaScript library jQuery.  • Converting mockups in to webpage.  • Involve in architecting some of the modules of the application.  • Working on creating RESTful API's using Angular2.  • Involve in analyzing the performance of the application and contributed towards its enhancements.  • Issue tracking and bug reporting using JIRA.  • Closely work with the QA team to fix the defects and errors.  • Involve in Agile approaches and participating in Scrum meetings.    Tools and Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, jQuery, Angular2, Bootstrap, NodeJs , Github, IntelliJ  Methodology: Agile Sr. UI Developer HSBC - Pune, Maharashtra April 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Front-End Development.  • Generated reports in pdf  • Coding standards and maintaining code assets  • Cross browser compatibility.  • Responsible for the Object Oriented JavaScript Functionality.  • Responsible for Prototype, Scope and Object-Oriented Concepts  • Responsive Designing.  • Responsible for build process.  • Responsible for API call.  • Converted mockups in to webpage.  • Participated in meetings with the end-clients to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them with the help of HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Worked on CSS to design the navigation, gradient background and used other style properties to enhance the look of the web page.  • Created different custom directives, custom filters, services and controllers by using AngularJS.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services.  • Applied the form validation in AngularJS to make the form validate.  • Worked with source version control tool GIT to manage the code repository.  • Solved Cross Browser Compatible issues for the different version of IE, Safari, Chrome, Firefox, and Opera.  • Responsible for charting libraries like Highcharts.  • Involve in Bug fixing related at front end.  • Issue tracking and bug reporting using JIRA.  • Closely worked with the QA team to fix the defects and errors.  • Involve in Agile approaches and participated in Scrum meetings.    Tools and Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap,Github, IntelliJ  Methodology: Scrum (Agile) Sr. Software Developer SunGard (FIS Global) September 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, requirement analysis, design solution and effort estimations  • Agile Product development and unit testing.  • Code reviews.  • Built the reusable service components using AngularJS services with Object Oriented JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS3 based on the visual designs.  • Develop HTML5 templates and perform client-side Validation using AngularJS  • Created different custom directives, custom filters, services and controllers by using AngularJS.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services.  • Applied the form validation in AngularJS to make the form validate.  • Worked with source version control tool GIT to manage the code repository.  • Solved Cross Browser Compatible issues for the different version of IE, Safari, Chrome, Firefox, and Opera.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Developed custom HTML5 elements using Angular JS directives.  • Responsible for API call using JavaScript.  • Used Angular JS to create the data in the table using ng-repeat attributes.  • Used Angular JS and bootstrap to style the pages.  • Use JavaScript for client-side scripting that reduce server trips and decrease the response time of the web application request.  • Worked along with Product teams and designers (co-located) to build and improve web user experience  • Continuously improve code quality and re-usability, with a focus on front end technologies.    Tools and Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Visual Studio2012  Methodology: Scrum (Agile) Sr. Software Developer GKTCS Innovations Pvt. Ltd December 2012 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, requirement analysis, design solution and effort estimations  • Agile Product development and unit testing.  • Code reviews.  • Built the reusable service components using AngularJS services with Object Oriented JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS3 based on the visual designs.  • Develop HTML5 templates and perform client-side Validation using AngularJS  • Created different custom directives, custom filters, services and controllers by using AngularJS.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services.  • Applied the form validation in AngularJS to make the form validate.  • Worked with source version control tool GIT to manage the code repository.  • Solved Cross Browser Compatible issues for the different version of IE, Safari, Chrome, Firefox, and Opera.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Developed custom HTML5 elements using Angular JS directives.  • Responsible for API call using JavaScript.  • Designed, developed and enhanced the application in .NET Framework 3.5.  • Followed Agile Methodology with scrum meetings.  • Maintain project knowledge base  • Manage project environment  • Handle proposals which includes providing solution approach and effort estimation    Tools and Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, ASP.NET, C#, SQL, Visual Studio2010 Sr. Software Developer GKTCS Innovations Pvt. Ltd September 2009 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on business layer in C#.Net to handle existing functionality of the system as well as new proposed functionalities.  • Designed and Developed the web application using Asp.Net  • Used JavaScript for Client side validations and .Net Validations for Server side Validations.  • Worked with Ado.Net to handle database transactions and interaction with Asp.Net Pages.  • Implemented Data Adapter, Data Reader, Datasets, and Data connections for creating, opening, accessing connections, binding data and used SQL commands for reading and updating data on Microsoft SQL 2005 Server.  • Analyzing the requirements, designing a solution, and interacting with team members to provide effort estimates, Coding, and Unit testing.  • Involved in the UI and code part of the website.  • Coordinated my work across teams to build a seamless feature.  • Worked with team to get work done on various components  • Create and manage project schedule  • Generated new and edited existing user interface with CSS to accommodate new changes in design and logic.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in Jquery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Maintain project knowledge base  • Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX and JQUERY.  • Responsible for API call using JavaScript.  • Responsible for consume in aspx webservices  • Involved in requirement gathering.  • Responsible for requirement analysis, design solution and effort estimations.  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing, and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  • Handle proposals which includes providing solution approach and effort estimation.    Tools and Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, ASP.NET, C#, SQL, Visual Studio2010