Sr iOS Developer Sr iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Rowlett, TX Motivated, dedicated and result oriented application developer with 5 years of experience in iOS application development for iPhone, iPad and Apple Watch. Believe in the importance of creating highly readable and easily maintainable source code. Constantly learning new technologies and looking for ways to improve myself in this rapidly changing industry.  • Works on re-design/re write of the application using Swift language with my team  • Bug Fixes, Code Reviews and improving application performance.  • Implemented tracking user analytics using Mixpanel and Google Analytics.  • Cross team interaction with other mobile teams to design and implement features.  • Experience with Agile practice, Scrum, sprint planning and retrospetives.  • Experience with Autolayout with UI refactoring from static frames to dynamic views.  • Utilized various Cores services such as Animation, Graphics, Motion, Location, Bluetooth, and Mapkit.  • Work on both Swift and Objective C  • Leverage GCD, Queues and multi-threading for submitting long running web services call  • Understand business logic and experience in SDLC and agile Methodologies.  • Experience in working with RESTful, SOAP webservices and parsing XML, JSON data using automatic mapping techniques such as Codable in Swift  • Complete understanding of iOS Architecture: Object Oriented Design Patters (MVC, MVP, MVVM) and Protocol Oriented Programming (POP) implemented in ObjectiveC and swift  • Clear knowledge in Development, Testing, and Distribution of the App on the AppStore and PlaySore Work Experience Sr iOS Developer CITI GROUP - Irving, TX July 2017 to Present APP URL: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/citi-mobile/id301724680?mt=8    Description: The Citi Mobile App keeps its customers in control virtually anytime, anywhere. With this app the Citi customers can send, receive and track their accounts through app.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for developing new features for Citi Bank application  • Works with SCRUM team of a large pool of developers applying all agile principles  • Followed TDD approach and focused on 100% Code.  • Project matriculated using Agile/SCRUM management methodology; Code delivered in 2 weeks Sprint.  • Implemented the function of invoking pop-up screens, web views, etc. using the iOS frameworks and Cocoa APIs.  • Implemented the ability to send notifications through communication between Apple Watch and Citibank App using iPhone SDK.  • Used table views and xib files to create custom cells for various components.  • Managed the version using Bitbucket and SourceTree.  • Collaborated with 5 iOS developer, 5 microservice developers and 3 QA testers to define, design, and ship new features using Scrum/Agile. iOS Developer USAA - Austin, TX November 2015 to June 2017 APP URL: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/usaa-mobile/id312325565?mt=8    • Collaborated with 1 other iOS Developer and the rest of the product team to develop an enterprise iOS app in Swift for USAA customers  • Development included heavy implementation of UISplitViewController, custom UI objects, and extensions to produce the UX specified in the design doc  • GIT repositories were used for version control using SourceTree as the primary client for BitBucket repositories  • Primary architecture used were MVC, Delegate, and Extensions  • Worked to ensure PIC compliance and adherence to all federal banking and insurance regulations  • Integrated location and gps functionality in order to secure user current location and closest branch  • Responsible for the overall implementation of all feature and software upgrades for the application  • Developed iPad targeting all devices running iOS9 in Swift  • Created and modified custom inspectable Views and Controls  • Used SAML and OAuth protocols for authentication  • Optimized for iOS 9 iOS Developer ( Client Amgen Congres April 2015 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding the business requirements for the project from the client.  • Participated in all the phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), provided value added services with development teams and clients throughout the life span of a project, strategic consulting, programming, and managing complex development schedules and tasks.  ? Consuming Rest Based web services for event details.  • Facebook & Twitter Social Media integration for Login and posting the details.  • Used Multithread Environment for fetching/storing the information from/to server.  • Used Location Base API to get current latitude and longitude of user.  • Done Performance Tuning, Code Optimization.  • Design application in a way that it will support Smart phone as well as Tab.  • Development methodology used was the SCRUM Agile methodology. Process included iterative development, 2 week sprints, daily stand-up meetings, and customer managed backlog.    Environment: Xcode, Swift, JSON, REST Web Service, CoreData, Social Media integration, Google Map, Location base API, Core Graphics, NSURLSession, MapKit. iOS Developer Nutech Systems Inc - Las Cruces, NM April 2014 to February 2015 https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/modern-house-numbers/id902289707?mt=8    • Created a very modular design that allows user to easily transition between multiple curriculums with teacher or student credentials.  • Involved in Development and coding by adhering to the Coding Standards using Objective C, X-Code.  • Worked in an Agile Methodology environment, and with Jira on a daily basis.  • Implemented code versioning and best practices for coding.  • Used custom Plist files, Core Data, Sqlite to store user data.  • Implemented a saving feature to allow users to save and share their house number mockups.  • Built-in functionality that will allow future releases to build a learning environment in which a teacher can give their students the optimal learning experiences as technology continues to advance.  • Assisted in the implementation of Testflight. iOS Developer Nutech Systems Inc - Tampa, FL October 2013 to February 2014 https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/hsn-shop-app/id324326909?mt=8    • Worked as iOS developer in charge of creating a responsive iOS mobile application  • SVN repository was used for version control and IDE used to connect to repository Versions  • Primary architecture used were MVC and Singleton  • Developed as an iPhone application, compatible for iPhone 3GS, iPhone, iPhone 4S, & iPhone 5  • Secondary role was to implement MapKit framework to display various information on Google Maps for iOS 5 and previous and Apple Maps for iOS 6  • Used event Kit framework along with UIS witches to remind user of desired shows  • Used Quartz Core framework to make a more appealing user interface and implement rounded corners on images and product carousels  • Created additional product carousels for show hosts, guests, and models  • Created those carousels by consuming xml web services in order to load the correct product images  • Used touch XML Parser  • Used NS Notification class extensively to broadcast notifications synchronously Software Developer Sandford International School - Addis Ababa, ET February 2013 to August 2013 The ERP solution for Sandford International School comprised of the following systems:  • Student Information System.  • Human Resource Management System  • Payroll Management  • System Budget Management System  • Property Management System    Technologies Used:- Java, JSP, Servlet, MySQL, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat, LAMP Stack Software Developer Ethiopian Institution of Ombudsman - Addis Ababa, ET January 2012 to January 2013 Online Reporting Tool  * This is a java web application (MySQL Backend), with the latest technologies in user (jQuery Ajax).  * Its a bilingual application(Currently Amharic and English are supported).  * The application runs across a hierarchical administrative infrastructure.  * This application is mainly used to generate many different aggregate reports starting from ''kebele" level upto region level.    Technologies Used:- Java, jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, Hibernate, Spring MVC, MySQL, Apache Tomcat, Jasper Report, MAMP Stack Software Developer Ethiopian Institution of Ombudsman - Addis Ababa, ET May 2011 to December 2011 Case Management System  * This is a java web application system.  * Uses MySQL as a back end. The application has two major modules (intake management and investigation management).  * Apart from this two modules, there is a part where applicants can track there cases(the current status of the case and the where about information).    Technologies Used:  - Java, jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, J2EE, MySQL, Apache Tomcat, Jasper Report, MAMP Stack Software Developer Justice Organ Training Institute - Addis Ababa, ET May 2010 to April 2011 * Human Resource Management System  * This is a java web application that is used to handle all the HRM processes of medium to large organization.  * Currently, the HRM System is functional at Justice Organs    Technologies Used: Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, MySQL, CSS3, jQuery, JUnit Test Framework, LAMP Stack Software Developer Abt Associates - Addis Ababa, ET December 2009 to April 2010 * Community Based Health Insurance System  * This is a java web application used to manage the contribution of each member from the four regions of Ethiopia (Oromia, Amhara,Tigray and South).  * Designed to help alleviate the cost of higher health care.    Technologies used: Java, MVC, MySQL, JSP, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Jasper Reports, JUnit, Apache Tomcat Web Server, LAMP Stack Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems North Central University Skills Swift, Objective-C, Objective C, Xcode, C, Iphone, Bluetooth, MVVM, Java Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/fiseha-gezahegn-29a67868 https://fisehamar.github.io/ressume Additional Information Technical skills    - Languages: Objective-C, Swift, Java, JavaScript, NodeJS and PHP  - Databases: SQLite, Core Data, MySQL  - Web Services: RESTful, SOAP, JSON, XML  - IDEs: XCODE, Eclipse, Atom  - Change Management Tools: GIT, GitHub, SVN  - Tools: Storyboards, Interface Builder, Instruments - Allocations, Leaks, Zombies, LLDB, CocoaPods  - Cross Platform Tools: Ionic, Cordova and ReactNative  - Frameworks: CocoaTouch, CoreLocation, Foundational, UIKit, CoreGraphics, GCD, MapKit, AFNetworking, MKAnnotations, Google API, Foursquare API  - Methodologies: Agile, MVC, TDD, SCRUM, Waterfall-hybrid, Categories, Blocks, Continuous Integration, Delegation, Singleton, KVC, Notification, PUSH Notification  - Operating Systems: iOS, OS X and Windows