Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Aureus Tech Systems Denver, CO Passionate, responsible and committed engineer, with a get-it-done, on-time spirit, and having experience in designing, implementing and adapting technically sophisticated online web applications using Microsoft Technologies, Asp.Net CORE, Asp.Net, SQL server and on front end Angular 2/4/7, React JS ,  TypeScript, .Net Core, ASP.Net, EF Core, Azure SQL Server, Azure Service Fabric and Micro service  with multi tiered architecture and more. Proficient in C# infrastructure, language standards, object modeling technologies and Application Life Cycle management. Work Experience Software Developer Imagine Communications - Denver, CO April 2018 to Present Company: Aureus Tech Systems    Description & Responsibilities: XGCAMPAIGN application will enables cloud-based sales, traffic, planning and scheduling system for broadcast, on-demand and digital platforms. This will also enable different teams to create campaigns, convert proposals to traffic orders, plan schedules across multiple markets / channels with streamlined validation against proposed and reconciled ratings, as well as organizational business rules.    • Communicate with Product owners and business end users to gather requirements and better understand the use cases for Media Ad Tech domain.  • Upgrading and enhancing the XGCAMPAIGN application components via integrating new framework components, applying new technologies.  • Working in teams to design, build, stabilize and deploy the XGCAMPAIGN application components using Angular 7, TypeScript, PRIMENG, Storybook Platform, Dev Extreme, ASP.NET Core, Web API, C#, jQuery, HTML and CSS.  • Providing support responsibilities for XGCAMPAIGN application in the form of bug fixes, requirement change integrations, and feature extensions.  • Design & implementing authentication security for application using CORS, OAUTH Token base & Identity Providers  • Design, implement and deploy cloud native applications to Microsoft Azure.  • Contribute to the design and develop high quality software for large scale microservice systems with service Fabric.  • Responsible to implement responsive and device agnostic user interface using HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS.  • Implementing REST Web API for business logic with Controllers, Business Access Layer & Data Access Layer using .Net Core, C#, Entity Framework ORM.  • Extensively used LINQ and Entity framework Core on data model objects to communicate with Azure SQL Server database and get the desire data.  • Design, implement and maintain code integrity via automated unit tests using XUNIT.  • Implement source control mechanism using Visual studio team systems, Bit bucket and GIT.  • Utilize safe agile methods such as SCRUM to develop databases and web applications through the SDLC.  • Interface with internal customers to determine the most efficient and cost-effective approach to meet their business requirements.    Environment: Asp.net CORE, C#.Net, SQL server, LINQ, AJAX, JQUERY, Angular 4.0/7.0, Type Script, PRIMENG, Dev Extreme, HTML5, Web API, Windows Azure, Micro Services, Entity Framework, CSS3, T-SQL, TFS, Bootstrap CSS, Agile and Scrum. Software Developer Aureus Tech Systems April 2018 to Present .Net Consultant CSS CORP September 2017 to March 2018 .NET Consultant Aruba Networks September 2017 to March 2018 Company: CSS CORP    Description & Responsibilities: LMS application is internal license management application, where customers can login into portal and activate their controller certificates to get the license for their AP's (Wi-Fi Access points). They can transfer and reassign their activated licenses to other members in same organization.    • SQL database optimization, query performance improvements.  • Training End users and Application support teams.  • Involved in developing QA module for generating licenses for support users and involved in developing Internal License module for internal users.  • Contribution to requirement gathering, SRS and Technical design specifications.  • Analyzed the existing application programs and tuned SQL queries using Execution plan.  • Developed the project in the client environment based on agile methodology.  • Responsible to maintain unit test case document to sync with the QA Team.  • Responsible to properly implement Application Exception handling.  • Responsible to implement the functionality to export transaction reports to MS-Excel.  • Responsible for the Configuration of Web-Config files to enhance the performance of the application.  • Developed the Web Based Application using MVC5 architecture.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery for validation of client interface HTML pages which displays the product reviews.  • Worked on development process of high-level design, implementation, testing, deployment and support of product adhering to company SDLC.  • Developed Multi -Tier Application in .NET using 3 layers approach. Presentation layer was developed using MVC, business layer developed using C#, and data access layer developed using ADO.NET Entity framework in C#.  • Design and developed static and dynamic pages validating Client side and Server-side scripts.  • Used Anti Forgery Token to protect the application against cross-site request forgery.  • Implemented Attribute Based Routing to gain convenience and finer control over URLs with MVC5.  • Used AGILE methodologies to implement the application and participated in daily SCRUM and weekly SPRINT meetings.  • Identified, researched, investigated, analyzed, defined and documented business processes.    Environment: Asp.net, Asp.net MVC, C#.Net, SQL server, LINQ, AJAX, JQUERY, Angular 4.0, HTML5, Web API, Windows Azure, Entity Framework, CSS3, T-SQL, TFS, Bootstrap CSS, Agile and Scrum, AWS (Amazon Web services). Senior Software Engineer ACCION LABS May 2017 to September 2017 Senior Software Engineer ECHO HEALTH INC May 2017 to September 2017 Company: ACCION LABS    Description & Responsibilities:  ECHO MEDPAY is an interface service application between insurance providers and insurance payers. It will consolidate all payments which are going too paid by multiple payers to single provider.    • Involved in design and development of Payment data validation application  • Worked with Web API to provide services to HTTP requests and created Rest Services using ASP.Net Web API.  • Involved in writing stored procedure for med pay issuer module.  • Involved in writing stored procedure for med pay source, med pay location modules.  • Involved in writing unit test cases for payment data validation project.  • Contribution to requirement gathering, SRS and Technical design specifications.  • Applied SOLID principles to design and develop loosely coupled objects which are derived from Interfaces.  • Used LINQ for Database interaction.  • Actively involved in SCRUM meetings discussing the implementation, integration of backlog modules considering the released version of software and best practices for solutions.    Environment: Asp.net, Asp.net MVC, C#.Net, SQL server, LINQ, AJAX, JQUERY, Angular 4.0, HTML5, Web API, Windows Azure, Entity Framework, CSS3, T-SQL, TFS, Bootstrap CSS, Agile. Senior Module Lead development for ALTEN CALSOFT labs June 2014 to March 2017 Senior Module Lead - Development Aruba Networks (California) June 2014 to March 2017 Company: ALTEN CALSOFT LABS PRIVATE LTD  Description & Responsibilities: LMS application is internal license management application, where customers can login into portal and activate their controller certificates to get the license for their AP's (Wi-Fi Access points). They can transfer and reassign their activated licenses to other members in same organisation.    • Involved in design and development of virtual mobility controller (X86) module for transfer and activate the license.  • Involved in design and development of NPI Clear Pass module.  • Created UI Rich pages using MVC Views, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Developed fully responsive web applications using Bootstrap and CSS to make sure the application is accessible through all platforms like desktop, laptop, mobile and tablets.  • Developed code for operations between the application and the database using Language-Integrated Queries (LINQ) in C#.  • Worked with Web API to provide services to HTTP requests and created Rest Services using ASP.Net Web API.  • Involved in bug fixing raised by TAC team and order management team.  • Used Kendo UI controls like Grid Views, Combo Box, and Validation Controls extensively.  • Involved in developing Order number activation for all product lines from back end to front end.  • Implemented Aruba location Engine module (ALE).  • SQL database optimization, query performance improvements.  • Analyzed the existing application programs and tuned SQL queries using Execution plan.  • Developed the project in the client environment based on agile methodology.  • Responsible to maintain unit test case document to sync with the QA Team.  • Responsible to properly implement Application Exception handling.  • Responsible to implement the functionality to export transaction reports to MS-Excel.  • Developed the Web Based Application using MVC5 architecture.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery for validation of client interface HTML pages which displays the product reviews.  • Involved in developing QA module for generating licenses for support users and involved in developing Internal License module for internal users.  • Contribution to requirement gathering, SRS and Technical design specifications.  • Used Kendo UI controls like Grid Views, Combo Box, and Validation Controls extensively.  • Responsible for coding as per the Coding standards and perform the Unit testing and integration testing.  • Developed custom AngularJS directives using isolated scope to be used as html elements.  • Involved in creating EDMX (ADO .Net Entity Data Model) and Mapping.  • Implemented ACTION FILTERS to record user activity in selected controllers.  • Extensively used ADO.NET Entity Framework to communicate with SQL Server database.  • Writing stored procedures, functions, triggers and complex SQL queries for use in different modules of the application.  • Involved in designing views and view models for entire application.  • Implemented Ajax functionalities for partial page rendering through JSONP.    Environment: Asp.net, Asp.net MVC, C#.Net, SQL server, Entity Framework, LINQ, UNIT TESTING, JQUERY, HTML5, Asp.net Web API 2.0, Windows Azure, WCF, CSS3, Bootstrap CSS, Angular JS, Angular 2, GitHub, Agile and Scrum, IIS Server, Fiddler, AWS. Software Developer (.Net) May 2013 to May 2014 • I have worked as a Software Developer for SUJAP GROUP OF COMPANIES from Dec-2010 to Nov-2012.  • I have worked as a Software Engineer for ATS from June-2007 to Aug-2008. Software Developer(.Net) Topco Associates LLC - MAY, Illinois, US May 2013 to May 2014 Company: UST GLOBAL    Description & Responsibilities: TOPMAPP is a mass edit cost page price change application, it allows the user can search for vast number of cost pages, edit details and update details for those cost pages on a single transaction. It will also provide the list of transaction details for mass update change by user.    • Involved in design and development for transaction history module where the users can see mass edit update transactions.  • Created User Interface pages with Razor views and partial views  • Used LINQ for querying database, entities, XML.  • Wrote Stored Procedures, Transactions, Triggers and SQL-Statements to access data from SQL Server Database.  • Extensively worked on User Interface pages using Asp.net MVC, C#, CSS, HTML, AJAX, Java Script and to implement complex Business Rules and Validation of front-end forms.  • Handled Run Time Errors & Design Time Errors by implementing appropriate Error Handlers in C#. NET.  • Involved in documenting the user manual.  • Developed Business Logic layer by implementing Object Oriented Programming Language (OOPs) features like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation in C#.  • Implemented business modules for Delete transaction module.  • Designed user interfaces using third party components like Kendo UI and Razor View Engine.  • Involved in data base tuning and performance tuning for entire application and involved in performance testing for entire web application.  • Extensively worked with C# .net MVC to create business layer services that gets data from repositories and feed to controllers to display on view.    Environment: Asp.net MVC, C#.Net, SQL server, LINQ, AJAX, JQUERY, HTML, CSS, Entity Framework, WCF, Unit Testing, Team foundation server (TFS), Telerik Controls, T-SQL, AJAX, SSMS.Net Framework, JavaScript, ADO.Net, Agile and Scrum, IIS Server. Software Developer Private Meds December 2010 to November 2012 Company: SUJAP GROUP OF COMPANIES - UK    Description & Responsibilities: E-shop assist is pharmacy bespoke application where users can schedule doctor appointment and they can order prescriptions suggested by the NHS doctor.    • Developed N - Tier architecture using C# classes for entire project solution.  • Developed stored procedures for product fetch and category fetch modules.  • Designed menus for the presentation layer and involved in the design of CSS styles for the entire project.  • Developed data layer and business logic layer in the n tier architecture for the project.  • Designed databases and ERP diagrams for the e shop assist project.  • Utilized ADO.Net objects for Database interactions  • Created and developed data dictionary, tables, views, indexes, functions and advanced queries for databases using Query Analyzer and SQL Server Enterprise Manager or SQL Server Management Studio  • Utilized ADO.NET and Data Objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, Dataset, Data Table, and Stream Reader.  • ASP.Net interfaced database using ADO.NET Datasets, Data Adapters and Data Grids  • Worked on Stored Procedures, Database Triggers, Complex Views and Transactions handling in SQL Server which is being used as the development database.  • Involved in requirement analysis, application designing and implemented the Web Pages of project using ASP.NET& C#.  • Written technical documentation and developed workflows for the business functionality.  • Worked on creating classes in web applications using ASP .Net to create applications based on three-tier architecture.  • Involved in coding different layers of application including Presentation Layer, Business Logic Layer by Using Visual Studio.  • Maintained tables, views, stored procedures and function using SQL Server.  • Utilized ADO.NET technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation.  • Used session variables to hold information across different asp pages for a user session.  • Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and were coded using C#.    Environment: Asp.net, C#.Net, SQL server, AJAX, JavaScript, JQUERY, HTML, CSS, SVN, ADO.Net, T-SQL, Web services, SOAP, .Net Framework, SSMS, XML. Agile and Scrum, IIS Server Software Engineer ATS June 2007 to August 2008 Description & Responsibilities: Ecommerce Sports is ecommerce web application which provides the users to buy the sports related products, such as sports goods, accessories and sportswear. It facilitates the users to read the sports articles and give comment on the articles.    • Designed products module which will manage the products and the inventory using C#.  • Designed customer management module which will manage the customer's personal details and order details.  • Involved in the design of articles and gallery modules.  • Developed database operations using T-SQL Language.  • Worked for support and maintenance of website.  • Implemented dynamic web pages using ASP.Net.  • Used Session and Caching for data storage and improving page performance.  • Designed and implemented Business and Data access objects using C#.  • Involved in writing classes that were used to provide data from database to populate various fields in Interface.  • Used ADO.Net for communication between SQL Server and ASP.Net Pages.  • Developed similar look and feel of site using Master Pages.    Environment: Asp.net, C#.Net, SQL server, AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, T-SQL, SSMS. Education Masters in Computer Applications University of Bedfordshire 2008 to 2010 Bachelors Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University in Electronics and Communications 2003 to 2007 Skills .net, Amazon web services, Api, C#, Git, Javascript, .net framework 4.5, Asp.net web api, Wcf, Ajax, Asp, Css, Dhtml, Asp.net, Web services, Ado, Ado.net, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Mysql, Java Additional Information SKILL SET:  Microsoft Technologies: Asp.net CORE, Asp.net MVC, C#, Ado.net, LINQ, Entity Framework, SOAP, Restful Services, Ajax  Frameworks: .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/2.0.  Version Control tools: VSS, TFS, GIT, JIRA, CONFLUENCE, Bit Bucket  Script Languages: JavaScript, JQUERY, Angular JS, Angular 2/4/7, Html5, CSS 3,  Boot Strap, DHTML, PRIMENG Controls, Dev express.  Communication Frameworks: WCF, ASP.NET Web API, Web Services, Micro services.  Databases: AZURE SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014, T-SQL, MYSQL.  Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile-Scrum, SDLC, SAFE Agile.  Cloud Services: AWS Amazon Web Services, Windows Azure