Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Monterey Park, CA ? Extensive 8 years of IT experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, design, implementation, integration, testing and maintenance of applications using JSE and JAVA/J2EE technologies.  ? Experience in data access technologies like JDBC, JPA, Hibernate, SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers besides writing transaction queries, DDL and DML with development tools like, Aqua Data Studio and TOAD.  ? Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka and Play framework.  ? Experienced with Akka building high performance and reliable distributed applications in Java and Scala.  ? Professional experience in Amazon web services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3-simple storage services, Amazon SQS, Amazon SNS).  ? Migrated Spring based application to Cloud based service API.  ? Used Java Lambda expressions, functional interfaces and Streams API.  ? Involved in waterfall, agile (scrum) methodologies and daily SCRUM meetings to understand the status and resolve any issues.  ? Experienced in developing various open source frameworks such as Java Server Faces (JSF), Spring (Core, IOC, AOP, Batch, Security, Boot) Framework, spring ORM, creating ORM DAO's using spring framework, using Struts Framework, Tiles Frameworks and ORM Tools like Hibernate and IBatis.  ? Highly proficient on Java Data Structures and Algorithms and implemented for the efficiency of programs.  ? Extremely well versed in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC, JMS.  ? Expertise in UI design , developed Front End using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, Angular JS and in making web pages cross browser compatible and server scripting languages like Node JS and Backbone JS.  ? Proficiency in developing web services using SOAP, WSDL, Restful, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAX-RPC, AXIS, and JERSEY.  ? Experience in working with XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, DTD, XSLT and parsing XMLAPI with SAX & DOM parsers.  ? Good understanding and experience in using SQL Lite to handle large data sets.  ? Experienced in ETL framework, which allows data integration and ETL scenarios using XML language.  ? Professional Experience on NoSQL databases like Mongo DB, Dynamo DB.  ? Understanding on PostgreSQL, which is an open source object relational database system.  ? Worked with Web Sphere Application Server, Oracle Web Logic application server, Jboss and ApacheTomcat Application Server.  ? Good knowledge in building real time dashboard applications using Elastic Search, Log stash, and Kibana (ELK) to profile and monitor the streaming data of the application and Splunk SDK for Java API that follows a convention of exposing resources as collections of entities.  ? Designed and developed web application/tools using MVC pattern in Java SpringBoot.  ? Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write tables, Stored procedures, Functions, Triggers, Indexers and proficiency in writing complex queries, using Oracle, IBM DB2, SQL Server and My SQL, No SQL DB like Mongo DB and Cassandra.  ? Worked on Cloud Foundry, which is an open source cloud platform as a Service (Paas).  ? Actively involved in DevOps streamlining process through Jenkins CI and CD Release Automation.  ? Having measurable experience on application building tools like Maven, ANT and Gradle.  ? Involved in issue tracking and agile project management using tools such as JIRA, Pivotal Tracker.  ? Experience in developing applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  ? Experienced in developing messaging module by using Spring JMS, Apache Camel and Active MQ  ? Expertise in implementing various J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Session Facade, Data Access Objects (DAO), Factory, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Business.  ? Hands on experience in Security-System development for web Applications. Involved and developed various phases of security implementation using spring security system against all types of authentications like LDAP authentication, Database authentication and Pre-authentication.  ? Excellent analytical and critical thinking, creative problem solving, quick learning, interpersonal and client interfacing skills. Work Experience Java Developer Care1st Health Plan - Monterey Park, CA August 2018 to Present Description: Care1st Health Plan is a health plan provider founded in 1939 and based in California. The organization serves over 4 million health plan members and nearly 65,000 physicians across the state. Care1st Health Plan was founded by the California Medical Association. Founded as a not-for-profit, Care1st health plan was stripped of its tax-exempt status by the California Franchise Tax Board in 2014.    Responsibilities:  ? Gathered user requirements, analyzed and wrote functional and technical specifications, we use SharePoint to maintain all of our design docs.  ? Followed Agile software methodology for software development (3 week Sprint).  ? Used Spring MVC framework on the server side for creating Restful web services by giving JSON output to UI and modifying the DOM object on UI, by making HTTP calls and used GET and PUT.  ? Worked on Spring Security feature by securing the application by security interceptors and also worked with external entitlement services to authenticate user to access the data.  ? Understanding user stories to design and propose solution to the problems in Micro services architecture.  ? Development of Spring Microservices and Converting user stories into backend logic in service classes.  ? Worked with RedHat jBPM engine in embedded mode by creating multiple BPMN workflows and handled user tasks  ? Worked on deployments with CI/CT with Jenkins and UDeploy to build to higher environments  ? Applied AOP logic to all the Process instances and user tasks.  ? Developed email notifications batch job service using CRON scheduler by interacting with SMTP server to run nightly batches.  ? Developed multiple Controllers, Services &DAO layers to interact with data layer and developed Entity classes based on the table structure.  ? Involved in core integration to pick the file from FTP location and bring them into our staging tables and did all the validation on the java side  ? Created multiple mid-tier services to interact with multiple validations and worked on entitlements services to do user validations Interaction and also worked on applying security systems.  ? Worked with Oracle database and used Hibernate (ORM). Created POJO/Data  ? Objects in mid-tier service. Hands on experience on implementing lazy loading, first and second level of caching.  ? Leading on-shore offshore model Coordinating with Offshore team in being flexible on gathering updated from team. Work closely with Database team and testing team.  ? Worked on Jasper reports using iReport tool and integrated that JRXML into spring frame work.  ? Wrote SQL commands and stored procedures to retrieve data from Oracledatabase. Worked to plug this procedure in Java classes.  ? Developed the application using Singleton, Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project.  ? We use crucible while we commit code into SVN for reviewing the code.  ? Written JUnit test cases during the development phase and used assert functions to compare two objects.  ? Used JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  ? Worked on one of the UI based application and client focus more on look and feel of the UI. We use lots of customs components to design the UI. Chase standards and HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, EXTJS and AngularJS is being used intensively.  ? Good experience in documentation of designs and flow charts. Worked on designing DATA Models and maintain the existing documents in share-point.    Environment: Java (JDK1.7 & 1.8), SOAP and RESTFul web services, Hibernate, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, Tomcat 7 and 8, HTML, CSS, Sencha, JavaScript, Ajax, Log4j, Jenkins, SVN, Maven and ANT, iReport, Crucible, Spring MVC, Micro Services, Unix, XML, TDD, PUTTY, WinSCP, Eclipse Neon1, NaviCat, SQL Developer, Toad, Cloud-Servers. Java Developer The American Red Cross(ARC) May 2017 to July 2018 Description: The American Red Cross (ARC), also known as The American National Red Cross, is a humanitarian organization that provides emergency assistance, disaster relief, and disaster preparedness education in the United States. It is the designated US affiliate of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies and the United States movement to the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement.    Responsibilities:  ? Design and develop applications based on technical/functional design documents. Includes hands on involvement in designing, coding and testing of program modules.  ? Anticipate, mitigate, identify, troubleshoot, and correct hardware and software issues on servers, and workstations. Escalated incidents as necessary.  ? Performed software and hardware upgrades, patches and reconfigurations on all physical and virtual servers.  ? Development of technical design documents (specifications) based on functional design documents (business requirements)  ? Estimation and analysis for new development/enhancement projects come up with high/low level design document.  ? Involved in building a high efficiency dynamic single and multiple Web Application Using Bootstrap.  ? Hands on with Git / GitHub for code check-ins/checkouts and branching etc.  ? Built Continuous Integration environment using Jenkins, Maven and Puppet.  ? Design and development of new metro code functionalities component developed on UI layers using HTML, XML, XSLT and Controller class, IO classes, SOAP services for generic metro code information and back end store procedures.  ? Creation of SpringPOJO classes and complete configuration of spring MVC for Collateral Property, Multifamily & Commercial loan modules.  ? Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) framework and Spring regarding flow of request by Dispatcher Servlet.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like Adapter, Service locator, Session facade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  ? Involved in production support for the mortgage applications and responded to business users if any production issues in a timely fashion.  ? UsedEclipse/STSIDE to debug if any JAVA issues while deploying or integrate with other Java applications/Interfaces.  ? Ensure compliance with coding standards, source code control, version control, build & deployment procedures and performance tuning.  ? Check the messaging queues and JMS routers for each application, integration and deploy into WebLogic12c server. Configure input/output queues to flow the messages and ensure its routed to the up/down stream systems.  ? Actively participated DevOps role into build, configure and deploy code in various application test environments and follow up release process to push the code into production.  ? PreformedDevOps role for continuous integration using GIT, Jenkinspipe, deployments into various environments, code coverage checking, release management prioritized the CRs for UAT testing/prod move.    Environment: Java 1.7, xsl/xslt, Spring-Core, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Java multi-threading, Hibernate 3.2, RAD 7.0, IBM WebSphere Application Server 7.0, Rapid SQL 7.5.1, JQuery, JAX RS Web-Services with SOAP, Oracle 11g, Jenkins Araxismerge, Unix, Service request tool Project & Portfolio Management(PPM), HP Quality center, XML Spy, Informatica jobs - monitor CAW, VBA macro, hummingbird connectivity 2007, EXCEL Macro and Putty. Java Developer Merck & Co - Madison, NJ January 2016 to April 2017 Description: Merck & Co., Inc., d.b.a. Merck Sharp & Dohme outside the United States and Canada, is an American multinational pharmaceutical company and one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development  ? Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database  ? Improved the maintainability of the project by implementing and improving exception handling and Collection APIs  ? Developed GUI using JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML/HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and jQuery, jQuery Mobile in on-going projects  ? Involved in Sprint planning for the estimation of efforts for user stories and bugs  ? Performed code reviews and provided guidelines for best practices of software management, Coding Standards and Code Commenting for better understandability  ? Used Spring Boot, which is radically faster in building cloud Micro services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration  ? Actively involved in deployment application war files in Web logic application server  ? Designed and developed the REST based Micro services using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA  ? Refactored the code for JVM optimization and performance of application  ? Involved in Maven based build process and continuous integration of the project using Jenkins.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML to integrate other legacy systems.  ? Used Core Java Concepts like Collections, Generics, Exception Handling, I/O, and Concurrency to develop business logic.  ? Built applications for scale using JavaScript and NodeJS  ? Used SOAP based Web services and RESTful Web services for transferring data between applications.  ? Responsible to finish rally defects assigned on time and update their status on regular basis.  ? Used GIT for source code control.  ? Developed detailed program design for application changes and/or major bugs.  ? Involved in writing program documentation and technical specification documents.  ? Used advanced core Java features such as Annotations, generics, multithreading etc. throughout the application for well-structured programming    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring Core, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Oracle DB, Node JS, GIT, IntelliJ, Apache Tomcat 8, Maven, Rally, SOAP/Restful Web Services, Jenkins, Multithreading, WSDL, Spring Based Micro Services, Agile Java Developer Symantec - Mountain View, CA March 2014 to December 2015 Description: Symantec Corporation (NASDAQ: SYMC), the world's leading cyber security company, allows organizations, governments, and people to secure their most important data wherever it lives.  Companies Integrated Cyber Defense (ICD) Platform unifies products, services, and partners, protecting enterprises against sophisticated threats across endpoints, networks, applications, and clouds.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, design, development and support phases of software development life cycle.  ? Developed software applications according to functional and technical design specifications.  ? Developed source code using core Java and J2EE frame work.  ? Involved in development, design and implementation front end part of the widget based application using HTML5, CSS3-LESS, AJAX, Bootstrap.  ? Worked with React JS to build Bootstrap components for responsive UI Objects and linked with API data to view render the virtual DOM dynamically.  ? Implemented Redux Store and React State for server-side rendering and refactoring eeducer logic using functional decomposition and reducer composition.  ? Used a highly durable messaging system called Apache Kafka for asynchronous exchange of vital information between multiple business applications.  ? Developed and consumed SOAP Web Services using JAX-WS and Apache CXF, Restful web services using JAX-RS and used AXIS to send service requests to Web Services.  ? Developed Web services component using XML, WSDL, and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications.  ? Developed customer authorization for external systems using JAX-WS/SOAP web services.  ? Used SQL and PL/SQL queries to perform database operations on WebSphere  ? Used Maven and Jenkins to automate the build and deploy process.  ? Focused on Test Driven Development, thereby creating detailed Junit test for every single functionality before writing the functionality.  ? Used SOAPUI for testing the web services.  ? Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  ? Ensuring all the new development meets the requirement specification and standards set forth.    Environment:JDK1.7, Apache CXF2.7, Jersey 2.x,Myfaces, SAML,JSF 2 IIB 9, SOAP, XML, WSDL, XSD, Maven, Jenkins ,SVN, Log4j, JUnit, Web logic, XMLSPY. Java Developer Computer Home Private Limited - Pune, Maharashtra December 2012 to February 2014 Description: With a legacy of over thirty years, Computer Home Pvt Ltd (CHPL) is one of the leading software and IT Infrastructure provider based in Pune. Started with a singular objective - to provide complete end to end solution for Application Software Development as well as IT infrastructure requirements, CHPL has served vast number of companies from all business sectors.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in client requirement gathering, analysis & application design.  ? Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support in WATER FALL methodology.  ? Developed the UI layer with JSP, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JavaScript.  ? Used JavaScript to perform client-side validations.  ? Ajax was used to make asynchronous calls to server side and get JSON or XML data.  ? Developed server-side presentation layer using Struts MVC Framework.  ? Developed Action classes, Action forms and Struts configuration file to handle required UI actions and JSPs for Views.  ? Developed batch job using EJB scheduling and leveraged container managed transactions for highly transactions.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs, Garbage collections for dynamic memory allocation to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Implemented and developed REST and SOAP based Web Services to provide JSON and Xml data.  ? Used JPA and JDBC in the persistence layer to persist the data to the DB2 database.  ? Created and written SQL queries, tables, triggers, views and PL/SQL procedures to persist and retrieve the data from the database .Implemented JUnit test cases for Struts/Spring components.  ? JUnit is used to perform the Unit Test Cases.  ? Used Eclipse as IDE and worked on installing and configuring JBOSS.  ? Worked with production support team in debugging and fixing various production issues.    Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, XML, Struts, Struts MVC, JDBC, JPA, Web Services, SOAP, Restful, Web Services, SQL, JBOSS, DB2, ANT, Eclipse IDE, JIRA, CVS and UNIX. Software Engineer IIC Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to November 2012 Description: IIC Technologies is a CMMI level 3 rated, ISO 27001:2013, ISO 20000-1:2011 and ISO 9001:2015 accredited provider of geospatial solutions and services for the acquisition, management, integration and dissemination of geospatial data. With global presence, IIC Technologies provides end-to-end geospatial solutions to the Aeronautics, Defense, Government, Infrastructure, Marine, Oil & Gas, Transportation and Utility sectors.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed the application based on MVC architecture.  ? Developed web application using JSP, Servlets, Java beans that uses MVC design pattern.  ? Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, CSS and JSP.  ? Wrote JavaScript for client-side validation.  ? Used Java Swings in designing user interfaces.  ? Used Java Fundamentals and OOPS concepts like inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction to develop the code. Worked on bug fixing and Production Support.  ? Implemented core java concepts like Multithreading, Exception Handling and Collection wherever necessary. Used Eclipse as IDE tool for creating Servlets, JSP, and XML.  ? Wrote SQL for JDBC prepared statements to retrieve the data from database.  ? The Application was deployed on Apache Tomcat Server.  ? Involved in build and deploying the application using ANT.  ? Used Configuration Management Tools for version control which is built on CVS.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, MVC Design pattern, PL/SQL, Log4J, Apache Tomcat server, My SQL, Eclipse IDE, CVS, ANT, Log4J. Skills Amazon web services, Case tools, Docker, Git, Groovy, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Svn, Visio, Xml, Xsl, Xslt, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JDBC, JSP, JSF, JMS, EJB, JNDI, Akka, Java Security  Mark-up/XML Technologies DHTML, XHTML, HTML5, JavaScript, Node JS, AngularJS, CSS, CSS3, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, AJAX, JQuery, JSON  Tools & Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring  AOP, Spring Boot, JSF, JUnit, SOAP UI, Groovy, ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Apache  Active MQ, Apache Camel    Web services SOAP, Restful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis2, Micro Services, AWS (Amazon Web Services)  Web/App Servers IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss EAP, Web Logic Server, Glassfish  Database Oracle, SQL-Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL server, TOAD, Casandra, MongoDB/NoSQL  IDEs Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite (STS), RAD  O-R mapping Hibernate, MyBatis  Modeling/ CASE Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio Professional  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, Mockito, Soap UI, Putty, Rational Clear Quest, RTC, Star Team  Version Control Tortoise SVN, CVS, Rational Clear case, Git and Mercurial, Docker  OS & Environment Windows Vista/XP/2000/NT, Win 2k Server, Sun Solaris, UNIX, Linux  JavaScript Frameworks Angular 4, Angular JS, Angular 2, JQuery, Node JS, Backbone JS, Hapi JS, React JS, Express JS, Ember JS, Handlebars JS