Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - AT&T Plano, TX Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Tech Mahindra, AT&T - Plano, TX April 2018 to Present • Successfully improved page performance for att.com, att.com/buy from 6.6 seconds to 3.5 seconds.  • Automated branch versioning of the AT&T sales releases through Jenkins job. Reduced 1-day job to a 2.5 hours job.  • Created front end landing panel of a high traffic live website (1 million+ users), and made it customized to fetch specific data depending on the catalog data type, within DevOps scenario handling Jenkins pipeline.  • Created ReactJS component as a part of platform UI team of AT&T's Integrated Development Platform, new digital experience now offered to the American customers using ReactJS with CI/CD methodology.  • Implemented headless CMS for rendering data on frontend from AEM (Data change on production now done in 15 mins). Software Developer Tech Mahindra - Noida, Uttar Pradesh March 2016 to April 2018 • Automated TDP platform's report generation to save 40 mins daily using library of Java for Jazz IBM tool.  • Successfully implemented a Tech-Spike, to inculcate Gatsby (a static site generation strategy: to give illusion of fast website to the user.) framework in the existing code base.  • Took extra responsibility on ETL development by conversion of packages from Data transformation services to Server Integration Services on Active login access packages for commercial web domain (delivered 150 packages in 85 days).  • Reduced bill fetch time in application for wire line customers from 2.6 seconds to 1 second. Coordinator and IT Consultant Shri Sai Das Classes - Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh March 2015 to March 2016 • Worked on developing an analysis platform for students to help them assess their performance and growth.  • Operating on student strength of 1000-5000, and then will be available for large-scale usage (worldwide).  • Worked towards the requirement analysis based on readings from previous researches on student analysis. Software Engineer Tech Mahindra Ltd - Noida, Uttar Pradesh July 2012 to July 2014 • Re-furbished the customer billing and plan applications by making it user friendly for web domain.  • Reduced the team effort and time by implementing work around from time to time.  • Responsibilities included development tasks in the projects in the form of Rapid Deployments.  • Was able to fetch the bill on single JSP page while converting XSL file in the back end. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Rajiv Gandhi Technological University - Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh June 2011 Skills Api, Git, Hci, Html, Javascript, Reactjs, Typescript, Webpack, Jenkins, Vs code, Requirement analysis, Svn, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Servlet, Struts, Encryption, Linux, Spring Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming: Frameworks:  TypeScript, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SASS ReactJS (CSR), SpringBoot, Agile  Servlet, RESTAPI, Micro-services, Java, J2EE AWS, Struts, Eclipse, VS Code    DB & Deployment/Tools Versioning/Testing  Oracle, HBase (POC), SQL, Jenkins, CI/CD Git, SVN, JEST, Karma, Selenium  Balsamiq, Coral draw, AEM, Illustrator. Webpack, Requirement Analysis    EXTERNAL PROJECTS  Personalized Student Analysis System (Shri SaiDas Classes) (Jan 2016 - On going)  Project aims at providing to the point analysis reports to the students through intensive test series based on Central Board of Secondary Education curriculum (4000 questions approx.). The reports generated are so precise that learning, accuracy, concepts and speed are tested topic wise and students will have precise personal advice with the help of an intensive commenting system for report generation. Initially designed for 1000-5000 people.    HCI Improvement of the Radio Garden website (Georgia Institute of Technology) (Dec 2018)  Analysis and Paper on Radio Garden website to make it user friendly by using the rules of Human Computer Interaction.    Customization of Simple-DB Database System (NC State University) (Dec 2014)  Requirement was to introduce Database Recovery through and G-Clock policy in the existing Simple-DB database system.    Online Quizzing and Grading System (NC State University) (Oct 2014)  The project aims at creating an interface for faculty members and students at NC State to have a platform to share course materials, queries and assignment creation and submission by using random functions.    File Sharing Application (Competition at NC State University) (Sep 2014)  This was an application created within 24hrs using open source APIs of Google Drive and Dropbox, by implementing three-way handshaking authentication for sharing the files and documents online by the users of the application.    Java Code Compiler (Mar 2011)  The project intended to understand the working of an IDE by creating a simple replica in core java using applets.    Secure Text to Speech System (Mar 2010)  The project was a text to speech conversion system to implement encryption with database storage for audio files.  Implemented the speech synthesis API of Java coupled with simple encryption to achieve the objective.