Delivery Software Developer Delivery <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Oracle plsql developer Houston, TX • 5+ years of experience with expertise as SQL and PLSQL Developer, Analysis Services Cube Developer (OLAP) and Report Developer (SSRS) in areas of Application software development and maintenance.  • Responsible for creating Databases, Tables, Cluster/Non-Cluster Index, Unique/Check Constraints, Views, Rules and Defaults.  • Designed and developed ETL packages for extracting and loading the data into appropriate tables in the database using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • Coordinated with front-end for implementing logic in stored procedures and functions.  • Created jobs, alerts to run SSIS packages periodically.  • Designed SSIS package to export and import data from SQL Server to Access, text files and Excel files.  • Generated periodic reports based on statistical analysis of data using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) according to the client requirements.  • Performed Server installation and configuration using SQL Server 2005.  • Automated processes using SQL Server jobs.  • Creating, modifying, deploying and browsing Cubes with multiple fact measures and multiple dimension hierarchies in SSAS.  • Gathered business requirements and converted it into SQL stored procedures for database specific projects.  • Queries, Stored Procedures and Views Development in SQL SERVER 2008  • Design and develop SSRS reports as per specifications provided by internal and external clients  • Also worked on ORACLE PL/SQL and automated processes using oracle job to maintain oracle data warehouse.  • Monitored and tuned database resources and activities for SQL Server databases  • Building, publishing customized interactive reports and dashboards, report scheduling using Microsoft Power BI.  • Created action filters, parameters and calculated sets for preparing dashboards and worksheets in Power BI.  • Developed Power BI workbooks from multiple data sources.  • Also have experience in 24/7 Production Support  • Created Schema, Users, Tables, Constraints, Indexes, Triggers, Privileges, Roles, Cursors, Ref Cursors, User Profiles, anonymous blocks, directories, sequences, and synonyms.  • Granted resources, privileges and roles to users  • Tuned SQL queries using EXPLAIN PLAN, Hints and SQL*Plus Auto trace report for query optimization  • Automated SQL*Loader to load the data from the flat files  • Used Materialized Views, Packages and Dynamic SQL  • Created programs to transform data from Legacy systems into Oracle database Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Delivery Software Developer Mphasis June 2014 to Present Declaration -  I hereby attest that all the information specified above are true to my knowledge. Education Bachelor's in Information technology Valliammai Engineering College - Chennai, Tamil Nadu September 2009 to April 2013 Skills BI (Less than 1 year), BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE (Less than 1 year), DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (Less than 1 year), DBMS (Less than 1 year), MS SQL SERVER (Less than 1 year), Git, MYSQL Additional Information Technology Skills  DBMS: Oracle 9i/10G/11G, MS SQL Server 2008  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL  Utilities/Tools: Microsoft Power BI  Operating System: Windows XP, Window 7, UNIX  IDE: SQL server Management Studio, SQL Developer, SQL Navigator