Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer San Diego, CA Experienced Full-Stack Software Engineer. Focused on delivering quality developed, tested, and maintainable products. Passionate about technology and learning industry leading practices. Effective communicator, contributor, and collaborator. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Change Healthcare - Santa Ana, CA October 2017 to May 2019 • Contributed to the creation of a React Component library meant to streamline company workflows.  • Created member facing portal on a small team myadvocatehelps.com (responsive) using react and spring boot frameworks.  • Developed ui, api, and microservices using CQRS patterns for an internal facing workflow application that handled processing of Medical Claims.  • Developed and orchestrated various build, repo and deployment pipelines in AzureDevOps.  Tools Used: Javascript(es5,es6), React, Jest, Redux, Jenkins, GIT, AzureDevOps, Node, Groovy, .NetCore, Entity, MySQL, Docker, Spring Boot, SASS, (WCAG) 2.1- A,AA,AAA Senior Software Engineer Thomson Reuters - Eagan, MN June 2012 to July 2017 • Collaborated with a small team of developers to implement a client-side rewrite of a legal workflow processing web application from ActionScript/Flex to Angular 2.  • Developed and maintained client and server-side data models to transport legal data across monolithic and microservice architectures.  • Developed and maintained various project build focused around Bower, npm, Gulp and Ant.  • Developed P.O.C in Java 8 using a Machine Learning tool Mallet to measure recall and precision in large collection sets of legal data. (Topic Modeling)  • Integrated transformation, and search indexing services for litigation data provided through various REST endpoints and XML based schemes.  Tools Used: AngularJS, Karma, JavaScript (es5 - es6), Typescript, npm, Rxjs, Bower, Gulp, CSS, Spring MVC, Jersey, Hibernate, Apache Ant, Oracle 11g, Java 6 - 8, Swagger, SQL, PL/SQL, JUnit, DBUint, Power Mock Web Developer Digital River - Minnetonka, MN May 2011 to May 2012 Web Developer  • Contributed in implementing Web driven functionality using JSP Struts, JavaScript, and jQuery for maintaining e- Commerce based web applications.  • Analyzed browser compatibility and security vulnerabilities across several versions of Internet Explorer, Firefox, Opera, Chrome and Safari.  • Conducted performance profiling across browser platforms.  • Designed solutions for client webpages using standard-compliant XHTML and CSS for e-Commerce sites  Tools Used: Tools Used: JSP Struts, JavaScript, and jQuery, CSS, HTML, Firebug  Software Engineer Intern Maverick Software Consulting - Minneapolis, MN May 2010 to May 2011 Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Metropolitain State University - Saint Paul, MN May 2012 Skills Git (3 years), Javascript (9 years), MySQL (2 years), HTML 5 (9 years), jQuery (5 years), ASP (3 years), Java (5 years), Oracle (5 years)