Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Accenture Austin, TX Work Experience Software Engineer Accenture - Austin, TX February 2019 to Present Business & Integration Architecture - IBM Watson Specialist  ? Develop Agent Assist Web Application, creating REST APIs. adding security features(SSL, OAuth, HTTPS, JWT), Authentication and Authorization, and data processing from Jive Server. (Java Spring / MySQL / IBM Watson / React).  ? Scrum lead managing on-shore and off-shore team, helping identify tasks, issues, and defects during each milestone, and delegating action items to development teams, as well as managing a streamlined code repository (Git/Jira/BitBucket). Software Engineer IBM - Austin, TX January 2015 to February 2019 IBM Cloud - Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) Ingress Squad  • Participated in daily stand-ups as part of the Agile development cycle, dividing projects milestones in sprints to have a faster time to release with higher quality. (Jira/Jenkins/Travis)  • Wrote REST APIs designed to orchestrate and manage virtual resources and network components for clients to manage and create own isolated environment within the public cloud. (Go)  • Implemented microservices and routines used for provisioning resources and created docker images to simulate behavior of staging and production environments. (Go/Kubernetes/Docker).  • Implement visual statistical representation of API usage, errors, and calls using New Relic for development, staging, and production environment.  • Wrote and updated technical documentation and guides for customers using VPC services.    IBM Cloud - Content Delivery Network (CDN) Squad  • Designed and developed middleware, SOAP and REST APIs, helper functions, integration with Akamai and SoftLayer middleware code base to enable client requests for creating and configuring domain mappings and other features resulting in up to 2670 Terabytes of bandwidth per week. (Postman/PHP -MVC/JSON/SQL)  • Create Proof of Concepts (PoC) for customers and create step by step documentation from how to configure Domain Mapping to server protocol configuration (HTTPS - Apache/Nginx).  • Developed and maintained automated system to evaluate daily health and performance status of CDN by writing scripts, cron jobs, and using containers to call multiple data centers across various geographical regions hosted by SoftLayer. (bash/python/Docker/Kubernetes/Grafana). (Internship) - Software Developer Intern Intel Corporation June 2013 to November 2014 Integration and Implementation Team  • Designed and developed web application displaying daily and weekly health check status results of System-on-Chip (SOC) convergence, allowing team to accelerate development process. (PHP/Perl/JavaScript/SQLite)  • Developed and minted automation scripts to collect data by scanning multiple log files across multiple environments and storing data. (bash/Linux/Oracle)  • Validated register-transfer level (RTL) blocks' timing, power, and area using Integrated Circuit and Design Compilers ensuring logic constraints were met. (Internship) Intern General Motors Inc May 2011 to August 2011 RE&F, Energy and Carbon Optimization Team  • Created statistical model to forecast energy consumption and carbon footprint for all GM North American plants using data from 2 independent energy consumption metering systems, weather trends, and unit volume.  • Validated sub-unit's energy consumption comparing it to total plant energy consumption. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering The University of Texas - Austin, TX December 2014 Skills Git, PHP (2 years), CSS, Javascript, MYSQL, HTML 5, Java (3 years) Certifications/Licenses IBM Watson Application Developer July 2019 to Present