Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - CentralSquare Technologies Tracy, CA Work Experience Software Developer CentralSquare Technologies December 2017 to Present - Develop public administration enterprise software focused on land management that is utilized by municipalities all over the country.  - Actively engage in high level engineering team activities such as suggesting architecture and design  improvements, recommending process improvements during retros and developing Powershell scripts to automate every day developer tasks.  - Deliver on projects from end to end (research, mockups to production grade code, technical documentation and support procedures) while functioning within the processes established by engineering team.  - Collaborate within engineering (QA, Database administrators, architecture) and outside engineering (Product  managers, support, installation team) to handle maintenances, escalations and roadmap goals.  - Lead the transition from Team Foundation Version Control to Git, holding training seminars and putting  together documentation for developer's code review workflow.  - Build a REST API for legacy code base in preparation for transitioning to a cloud-based product using Akka.NET  and .NET Core Web API and enforce self-documenting practices using Swagger.  - Work independently in small to large development teams while managing competing priorities in a demanding  production.  - Manage continues integration and deployment pipelines using Azure DevOps and oversee deployments to various environments (on-premise and cloud).  - Lead the implementation of test-driven development and provide training for developers. Advisor Codecademy December 2017 to Present - Code review projects and mockups providing feedback focused on code quality and best practices when developing Javascript applications.  - Assist in debugging Javascript applications and provide guidance on using developer tools.  - Mentor hundreds of students over several online React intensives, helping them get past any roadblocks and providing resources for education. President, Exercise Director Recognizing Illness Very Early and Responding September 2014 to June 2016 Lead preventative health advocacy group focused on providing exercise and nutrition health services to underserved communities of Sacramento and Davis; oversee actions of 14-member leadership committee and  over 50 additional Nutrition & Exercise undergraduates working on public health projects for elementary  students, senior citizens, and recovering addicts.  - Develop lasting relationships with medical directors, faculty advisors, and healthcare professionals to provide  preventive health services in community; developed educational programs at the Opiate Recovery Program in Sacramento, CommuniCare Health Centers in Davis, CSUS Cardiovascular Rehabilitation Program, Oak Park  Family Nights, and the Oak Park Farmers Market. Education Wyncode Academy B.S. in Exercise Biology B.S University of California Davis - Davis, CA Skills Javascript, Git, CSS, HTML 5, MYSQL, ASP Links http://github.com/zannain Additional Information Full Stack Web Development