Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - CVS Health Buffalo Grove, IL • Over 6 years of experience as Senior Software Developer in analysis, design and development of various enterprise and web based applications.  • Developed web pages using HTML4.0/5.0, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS1.x, Angular 2/4/5/6, NodeJS, AJAX and JSON.  • Experience with different methodologies like Waterfall, Agile, TDD and Scrum.  • Expertise in application development using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, JUnit, Log 4j, Ant, Maven, XML, JavaBeans, UML, JDBC and JNDI.  • Experience in developing web applications using SOA and MVC architectures.  • Extensively used Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript, TypeScript and ECMAScript 2015 (ES6).  • Used key features of Angular like two-way data binding, templates, services, controllers, scope, custom directives, filters, and dependency injection to get, post and represent data from database to the web browser.  • Expertise in writing Custom Directives in Angular 2.x/4.x/5/6.  • Hands-on experience in several J2EE design patterns such as Singleton, MVC and Factory Pattern.  • Experience on various spring modules (Spring Core, Spring MVC, DAO, JDBC and Transaction) along with Hibernate as the back-end Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tool for mapping of POJOs and implementing DAO layers using JPA standards and Hibernate API interfaces.  • Experience in using Core Java concepts like Multi-Threading, Collection, Interfaces, Synchronization, OOPs concepts and Exception Handling.  • Configured xml files for mapping and hooking it with other frameworks like Spring, Struts and other technologies.  • Expert level skills in programming with Struts Framework and Custom Tag Libraries.  • Experience using Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) like Apache Axis Web Services and on using SOAP/ REST, WSDL, JAX-WS.  • Hands-on experience working on packaging and deploying J2EE applications like ANT, MAVEN, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere and JBoss servers.  • Proficient in Database development using different RDBMS (Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL and DB2) in various projects with expertise in deploying Stored Procedures, Triggers, SQL Queries and SQL packages.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle from inception of idea, document reviews, coding and code reviews.  • Development experience with IDEs like Eclipse, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD).  • Good knowledge in version control system tools like SVN, GIT.  • Experience using tools like TOAD, Jenkins and MQ Visual Edit. Work Experience Senior Software Developer CVS Health - Buffalo Grove, IL April 2018 to Present • Updated the Angular application from Angular 4 to 5, Angular 5 to 6 and Angular 6 to 7 as per the stable version release dates respectively using Angular update guide.  • Used Angular-CLI for initializing and project setup with scaffolding features.  • Used Angular 5, Angular Material Icons for rich user interface and faster performance and Angular UI Router for routing pages.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI responsive development using JSP, HTML5, CSS/SCSS and used Client-Side validations were done using Node-JS, XSLT and JQuery and XML DOM.  • Used NPM, Angular 6 to work with various front-end libraries, frameworks, and integrations  • Validated front-end code in multiple browsers to ensure browser compatibility.  • Validated user actions on the client side and provided responsive feedback.  • Executed and contributed to full-stack web development projects, with an emphasis on front end features, browser manipulation, and browser compatibility.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring, and Hibernate and used Spring Framework to initialize managed beans and services.  • Built Microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise.  • Overseen and developed Notification Service microservices to use across the enterprise.  • Development SOAP and Restful Web services using WebLogic, Web Service Tools and Spring MVC.  • Used Java Servlets and WebLogic JMSMQ for various functionalities.  • Implemented Restful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Node JS, parsed the data to project to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security or OAuth.  • Worked to secure our RESTful web services using oAuth 2.0 with spring security to authenticate any third-party requests coming in.  • Created data model and generated Hibernate mappings and domain objects using Hibernate tools; interfaced back-end database by integrating Spring with Hibernate.  • Extensively used hibernate named queries, criteria queries, Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, AngularJS 2/4/6, TypeScript, Webservices, Struts, Spring, JPA, Hibernate, Jenkins, Web logic, IntelliJ, VS Code, Active MQ, XML query, RDBMS, Microservices, RESTful, Junit, spring framework, Oracle 12c, DB2, WebSphere, PL/SQL developer, Ajax, SVN, GIT, JIRA, SQL Developer. Senior Software Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC April 2017 to February 2018 • Delivered a complete client-side application using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and the latest powerful web technologies such as Angular 2/4.  • Used Angular-CLI for initializing and project setup with scaffolding features.  • Created templates for the UI view in HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap. Design and Development of the application is customized and styled as per Bank standards  • Intensively used PrimeNG components along with Angular in creating the application.  • Implemented authentications with Node JS.  • Translated design team's UX wireframes and mockups into responsive, interactive features, using HTML/CSS and TypeScript.  • Updated the project midway to Angular 4 for its performance benefits.  • Written code on Typescript and ES6 to implement Angular 4 Components.  • Validated user actions on the client side and provided responsive feedback.  • Displayed JSON Response on webpage in a grid/table format as well as charts using C3.js.  • Worked with NPM commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of Node JS applications.  • Used Git, BitBucket for source code management and JIRA for tracking purposes.  • Worked with ES6. Also Worked with Typescript new features block scope, type restrictions, decorators, arrow functions, classes, interfaces and modules (import and exports).  • Tested middleware application web services using SoapUI.  • Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Designed and created database for Application, writing queries in MS SQL and Oracle.  • Participated in code reviews and ensured coding standards are met with optimum code development.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during daily Scrum meeting to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  • Executed and contributed to full-stack web development projects, with an emphasis on front end features, browser manipulation, and browser compatibility.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, AngularJS 2/4, TypeScript, NodeJS, C# Js, JIRA, RXJS, ES6, GIT, BitBucket, SoapUI, MS SQL, Oracle, Jasmine, Karma, Agile, Scrum. Senior Software Developer TIAA CREF - Charlotte, NC August 2016 to March 2017 • Developed presentation-tier JSP pages in HTML, Implemented JQuery Data Grid control, Validation control and other Widget controls.  • Developed Web forms/user interfaces using Struts MVC, JQuery and JSP.  • Used JavaScript accordingly for validation purpose, browser detection and controls.  • Developed various AJAX controls and widgets to build a rich User Interface for the application.  • Translate business goals and user needs into an easy-to-use mobile app experiences by quickly prototyping ideas from low-fidelity wireframes concepts to high-fidelity deliverables.  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML 4.0/5, CSS (2/3), XHTML, Hybrid HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Used JQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application.  • Implemented REST using the standard HTTP request and response mechanism, simplifying implementation and providing for a looser coupling of the client and server.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Configured Web Application Context as a Context Listener in the web.xml file to Integrating Spring with JSF.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL.  • Developed Restful APIs to handle data transactions, as well as data validations.  • Analyzed the Node.JS server structure in legacy project, then mimicked the REST service by using Java JAX-WS API, and did the corresponding configurations.  • Involved in code reviews using crucible and evaluation of the standards to produce code with good quality.  • Used JIRA for User Stories and Epic management and GIT for version control.    Environment: Java 1.7, Java/j2ee, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Framework, Hibernate, JavaScript, Angular4, NodeJs, JBoss, GIT. Software Developer (Graduate Assistant) University of North Carolina at Greensboro - Greensboro, NC March 2015 to May 2016 • Participated in project requirement sessions with Academic advisor and faculty members to analyze requirements and translated business requirement into working model.  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Worked on HTML, CSS, and basic JavaScript to develop web pages.  • Development involved Java/J2ee, Hibernate (ORM) and spring technologies.  • Responsible for design & Development of the User Interface using HTML, CSS, Servlets and JSP.  • Designed and developed JDBC objects for the data retrieval and update.  • Experience with Spring frameworks (Boot, Integration, Batch, Security, Core)  • Experience with implementing/consuming REST and SOAP based APIs  • Responsible in developing JSP's and Servlets.  • Extensively involved in release/deployment related critical activities.  • Participated in entire life cycle ( Software Development Life Cycle) of the project right from the initial requirements gathering to the implementation.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, Spring, Apache Tomcat Application Server, REST and SOAP Web services, Servlets, UML, Log4J, Eclipse, SoapUI, WINDOWS, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, JSON, AngularJS. Software Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2013 to November 2014 • Used Agile methodology and effectively took part in Scrum gatherings to deliver quality deliverables within time.  • Designed and developed User Interface, application modules using JSP, spring, Servlets, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used AngularJS to bind data to HTML using expressions.  • Developed some part of the application using Spring-MVC and IOC/Dependency Injection integrating different layers of the application.  • Wrote DAO classes to interface with Database using hibernate.  • Developed DTO classes for the application modules.  • Defined Object Relational Mapping for Hibernate and performed spring integration with Hibernate for data access.  • Expertise in using Named queries to pull all HQL data using annotations.  • Performed version control using Subversion.  • Wrote code for consuming a Restful Web service with AngularJS.  • Generated a complete maven project structure and added dependencies, plugins to pom.xml.  • Worked on providing authorization and authentication to applications using spring security and protected the application against attacks like session fixation and click jacking.  • Implemented Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Developed logic and code for the registration and validation  • Used transaction Management to coordinate transactions among various resources in the application.  • Developed dynamic templates and Servlets, and provide excellent application management capabilities.  • Used Web Services to exchange information. Used SOAP framework and WSDL.  • Used SoapUI to manually connect to the web service and check data.  • Parsed XML, JSON responses received in Java code through Web Services.  • Extensively participated in the code and peer review of the project.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, Spring, Apache Tomcat Application Server, REST and SOAP Web services, Servlets, UML, Rational Rose, Log4J, Eclipse, SoapUI, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, JSON, AngularJS. Education Master of Science in Information Technology & Management in Information Technology & Management University of North Carolina - Greensboro, NC May 2016 Skills Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, SVN, ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JAVA TECHNOLOGIES, SPRING, JBOSS, JMS, JNDI, JSF, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, TOMCAT, WEBLOGIC Additional Information Technical Skills:    Java Technologies Java JDK1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, JSF, EJB, JMS.  Frameworks Spring, struts, Hibernate, JPA, Spring Batch, Bootstrap, C3.js, Backbone JS, Angular2.x/4.x/5/6 and JavaScript frame works  Database Oracle 11g, DB2, SQL Server, MS SQL, MS Access  Version Control tools SVN, GIT and SCM.  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, SCRUM and Kanban.  Defect Tracking Tools Jira, HP ALM  IDE Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, Net beans.  Build Tools ANT, Maven  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Weblogic, WebSphere.  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, LINUX.