Tech Lead Developer Tech Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Experienced Full Stack Software Developer Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Tech Lead Developer Willis Towers Watson May 2017 to Present Led team of 4 developers to ensure technical project milestones were met on time  ? Developed and customized C# .NET MVC web app for enterprise clients that allowed  end-users to make their annual health benefit elections.  ? Managed codebases during peak traffic periods for multiple large user base clients such as Coca-Cola, MattressFirm, IHG (Holiday Inn), and GlobalFoundries.  ? Led and participated in extracurricular initiatives to improve or automate key internal  processes for increased efficiency. Some processes are now adopted company-wide  ? Created several reports using SQL queries and stored procedures.  ? Regularly provided code reviews for junior devs and other developers within the team.  ? Designed and developed various new features at client request utilizing HTML/CSS, Javascript/jQuery, C# .NET MVC, SQL and other technologies.  ? Tech lead developer on "Team of the Year" twice - based on client and peer feedback Software Developer TLV Advanced Software April 2015 to October 2016 Implemented various security measures to prevent against common web vulnerabilities  (as defined by OWASP Top 10)  ? Utilized Snap.svg JS library to improve SVG-rendered interactive diagram with functionalities such as "drill-down" navigation and dynamic data display  ? Designed/developed "Bookmark" feature within Single Page Application web dashboard  ? Created custom JavaScript/jQuery plugin based on HighCharts.js to instantly implement  data visualization based on business requirements with a simple object instantiation  ? Developed all code with Unit Tests in a Test-Driven-Development (TDD) environment Web Developer Unicorp Auto Paints October 2014 to April 2015 • Worked on responsive web-app to manage sales commission for salespeople  • Created custom admin dashboard for business analytics and e-commerce management Software Developer Tsevo November 2013 to October 2014 Built database-driven web application that provided easy indexing of customer profile  data and customer account administration.  ? Developed full Web API using RESTful service to connect to B2B clients' existing code  base  ? Developed company dashboard application to manage key activities & resources.  ? Built Javascript-based drag & drop database entity mapping application.  ? Wrote & maintained SQL Stored Procedures to provide efficient data storage & retrieval  ? Optimized SQL Server processes for storage via table indexing Education High school or equivalent Skills .NET (5 years), SQL (5 years), Javascript (5 years), JQuery (5 years)