Development Operations Engineer Development Operations Engineer Development Operations Engineer - CBS Interactive Louisville, KY Work Experience Development Operations Engineer CBS Interactive December 2016 to Present When the layman asks what I do, I tell them I keep websites running. That really doesn't even scratch the surface though. For the non-layman I would say that I work on a team that spearheads the use of monitoring,  standards and best practices to ensure that we can deliver software reliably and effectively. My  responsibilities include managing CI/CD, standardizing development workflows, shifting apps to the cloud, and really anything that is required of me. With my cumulative experience, I would like to think that I am the modern day full-stack engineer. Developer RealPage, Inc February 2016 to December 2016 Initially, I was pulled onto a development operations team in charge setting up all new projects in AWS as opposed to the company's data center. We created starter applications complete with CI/CD integration,  dockerfiles, and everything needed to spin up a local development version, build an image, and throw onto a server to have a deployed application in a matter of minutes. We used AWS and Rancher as tools for  deployment and worked on developing a continuous deployment workflow for the company. I then  transitioned to developing a REST API to manage a telephony application utilizing Twilio. Project Lead/Sr Software Developer CirrusMio, Inc October 2014 to February 2016 lead a varying sized team in creating an IoT device management system, managing thousands of devices, AWS hosting and storage, integrating  multiple user identity management systems and utilizing multiple cloud based services including retail  publishing and messaging. I grew the project from initialization to release and now work on feature requests  architected by myself and requested from contractors and customers. Project Lead Software Developer CirrusMio, Inc May 2014 to February 2016 Headed up a contracted project to develop a device management system for advertisements. We leveraged a custom android device, ruby on rails, postgres and reactjs. The team varied from 2 to 5 people in size. Software Developer CirrusMio, Inc May 2014 to October 2014 worked on various cloud based services utilizing Ruby of Rails, AngularJs, AWS and created full UIs. The services included templating tools and version management. Education None in Computer Science University of Kentucky 2014 to 2016 BACHELORS in Psychology University of Kentucky 2006 to 2012 Skills Bash, Devops, Git, Linux, Jenkins, Ansible, Javascript, Docker, Docker Swarm, Kubernetes, Prometheus, Jenkins, Grafana, ReactJS, PostgresSQL, MongoDB, Golang, PHP, Python, Ruby Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/davidyurek https://github.com/millidavids Certifications/Licenses Docker Certified Associate October 2018 to October 2020