Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Institute of Public Health Woodland Hills, CA Work Experience Full Stack Developer Institute of Public Health - Brussels, BE May 2017 to Present WIV-ISP, located in Brussels, is a leading player in the field of public health, both among the Belgian federal and federated authorities and at a European and international level. Its partners are leading institutions such as WHO, OECD, EFSA, ECDC and OIE. At the WIV-ISP, more than 500 scientists, technicians and administrative staff work every day to protect and improve the health of the population. Minister Onkelinx gives the following example: "The WIV-ISP has played a decisive role in developing the first HIV plan in Belgium.    • Developed UI of the Employment Management System for HR department using Javascript, ASP.NET MVC 5, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Built backend web services and data layer supporting live notification server Real Time View of Employees and Bonuses using ASP.NET MVC, MS-SQL  • Responded to 100's of users' support tickets to quickly fix all frontend and backend  bugs/glitches on the site during my employment.  • Technologies: Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, C#, MS-SQL. Software Developer Airallergy - Brussels, BE May 2014 to 2017 The Belgian pollen and fungal spore surveillance network was created in 1974 and the routine monitoring in Brussels started in 1982. The Mycology & Aerobiology service of Sciensano is in charge of its management. The main objective is to give rapid information about these allergens to practitioners, pharmaceutical companies and allergic sufferers. These data will help to determine a diagnosis and the eviction of high risk periods. The network stations are operational from January to September for pollen monitoring, and till November for fungal spores.  • Responsible for creating HTML+CSS+Javascript prototypes from supplied Graphical Mock Ups and Wireframes.  • Designed, hand-code HTML/PHP/CSS and maintain quality web sites.  • Produce precision work under tight deadlines.  • Worked as a designer/ developer/programmer and also worked closely with programmers to ensure design and functionality to be consistent with clients objective.  • Responsible for leading and assisting in the management of the entire scope of project including design, project planning, user administration system, client relations, as well as contributing to the hands-on design and production.  • Developed deliverables ranging from wireframes, sitemaps, usability tests, reviews, and complete site creation and redesigns.  • Designed, hand-code HTML/CSS/Bootstrap responsive design quality web sites.  • Worked closely with programmers to ensure design and functionality to be consistent with client objective. Education Master in Law in Law University Of Ghent - Ghent, BE 2010 to 2015 Skills C#, Git, Javascript, Angular.js, Node.js, Angular, NET, PHP Links https://github.com/Armen-X