Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - AIG Insurance New York, NY Over 8 years of work experience in Java, performing functional and technical roles with top-notch Product and Services with over 5 years of work experience in Software Design, Development, and Maintenance of mobile applications using Android Application Development.    • Good programming skills and hands on experience in developing Android enterprise applications for mobiles and tablets using IDE's like Eclipse, Android Studio, Android SDK and ADT development tools in JAVA environment.  • Experience on Android UI components such as TextView, ListView, Customized ListView, Menus, Edit boxes, Buttons, Checkboxes, Dialogs, Alert boxes, Status Notifications, Action bars, and Spinners for various layouts in Application development.  • Experience in developing Android Applications using Core Java and Android APIs (Data Storage, Multimedia, Connectivity, and Location).  • Experience in using RESTful web services to fetch data for mobile front end and parsing the XML and JSON response using different parsers.  • Proficient in database development and implementation using MySql. Experience in writing queries with Oracle.  • Proficient with Android framework APIs (Phone Gap, Web View, Google Maps, Telephony API, Camera, Contact Manager).  • Successfully deployed apps on the Android Marketplace and supported the app for different releases of Android OS.  • Hands on experience in different tools and technologies in the space of Business Intelligence (BusinessObjects Enterprise), DBMS (Oracle, SQL Server, PL/SQL), Managerial Software Tools (MS Office Suite), Data Modelling (MS Visio).  • Tested Several Android Applications using real devices, and Android Virtual Device.  • Proficient in Working with different Android frameworks (Bluetooth, Location, Camera, Notifications, Maps).  • Expertise in web service protocols such as JSON, HTTP, XML and Hybrid-app using PhoneGap.  • Good knowledge on Android basic components i.e. Activity, Fragment, Service, Broadcast Receiver, and Content Provider (Cordova Framework).  • Hands-on experience in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), including requirement, analysis, design, development, testing, deployment, and implementations.  • Expertise in all the phases of System development life Cycle using different methodologies like Agile, Scaled Agile (SAFe), Waterfall.  • Implemented the Application using Spring MVC Framework.  • Very good at various Algorithms, Data Structures, Design Patterns, and UML (Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Use case Diagrams)  • Excellent oral, written skills and have ability to work both in team and individually.  • An experienced team player with excellent communication and interpersonal skills and can work independently under pressure and can lead, motivate and influence others. Work Experience Android Developer AIG Insurance - New York, NY December 2016 to Present Description: With increasing travel security and health risks, navigating the world of international travel requires a new level of sophistication to stay safe and secure. Whether it's prior to travel, during the trip, or after the return home, secure, member-only assistance app provides travelers with convenient access to in-depth travel, security and health information 24/7/365.  Responsibilities  • Developed hybrid app using JQuery, Backbone (Model, Collections, Views) and JQuery Plugins. Added  various features like JQuery Animations, Slides, Dialog, Modal Pop-Ups, Controls, Slide-Out Menu, Slide- Over, Carousal, Action Items, Infinite Scroll.  • Created various Android specific modules, within the hybrid app, using the Android Java code. Used latest Android API's and built a framework for communication between Android Java code and JQuery code.  • Implemented a Home screen with Navigation Drawer allowing user to switch between screens from anywhere in the application.  • Used Phonegap while building hybrid apps. Built various native features using PhoneGap. E.g.: Video recording & playback from within the app (HTTP & HTTPS).  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc. from the app and designed GUIs for these applications  • Built Restful API's, from scratch, for the mobile apps. API's type: GET, POST, PUT, DELETE. Used latest web services/API's standards for the data.  • Testing JQuery/Backbone app with Jasmine behavior-driven-development (BDD) test framework & Sinon.JS for spying, stubbing and mocking data and AJAX calls.  • Used Backbone.JS and ReactJS to create controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a single page application(SPA).  • Used Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, Dalvik Debug Monitor Server, Android NDK Android Virtual Device, and Android Debug Bridge for development and debugging tool.  • Added localization support, throughout the mobile & mobile-web application.  • Managed tasks within Agile Framework, cleared sprinted tasks, and controlled JIRA workflows.  • Involved in the full life cycle of the application using Agile/SCRUM SDLC process.    Environment: Android SDK, Eclipse, DDMS, Java, JQuery, Backbone.js, Underscore.js, Plugins, SQLite3, Multi-threading, POST, JSON, Bluetooth, Logcat, Windows 7 , GIT, JIRA. Sr. Android Developer Fidelity Investments - Merrimack, NH September 2014 to November 2016 Description: The streamlined fidelity mobile app allows you to invest, manage your money, and stay connected anytime anywhere which helps to track portfolio performance, customize your feed, and get financial news and videos.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in development phases of SDLC: from analysis, design, development, and test to deployment and support.  • Developed Industry-first dynamic experience timely portfolio, market, and research information customized news and tailored content.  • Design screens using MVC pattern for the application with Android Studio IDE.  • Maintained long and short-range deliverables with product management team per product roadmaps.  • Gather requirements and perform business analysis, translating client's business requirements into technical specifications.  • Developed the application to adapt to different orientations (Landscape/Portrait) and various resolutions (ldpi/ mdpi/hdpi) based on the device.  • Developed the app using material design which contains material theme that provides new style for the app and default animations for touch feedback and transition activities.  • Used Recycler View widget which is a pluggable version of List View providing different layouts and performance improvements.  • Created animation APIs that respond to touch events in the views with touch feedback animations.  • Used drawables to define bitmaps and tint them with a color at runtime.  • Performed various test functions - Black Box, User Acceptance Testing, Functional, and Regression, End to End testing for mobile devices / websites and mobile apps.  • Involved in the development of the login authentication process using token services for the secure authorization and authentication on the application.  • Work on large complex existing codebase in latest Android SDK, Android Studio and APIs using TDD, MVP and dependency injection design concepts.  • Utilized Shared Preferences to store and maintain user information.  • Used ADB (Android Debugging Bridge) command line for installing APK's and as a debugging tool (extracting log files).  • Played a key role in writing application logic using Eclipse IDE and Android SDK.  • Making the Restful Web Service Calls at the various stages in the app development cycle and parsing the JSON responses back from the web servers per the application requirement.  • Worked on debugging the application using Logcat, DDMS (Dalvik Debug Monitor Server).  • Coordinate with QA team and Business users to ensure utmost quality and user satisfaction with final deliverables.  • Managed tasks within Agile framework, cleared Sprinted tasks, and controlled JIRA workflows.    Environment: Android SDK, Android Debug Bridge, JDK, Eclipse IDE, RESTful Web Services, LogCat, SQLite, Angular JS, Gradle, GIT, JIRA. Android Developer Walgreens - Chicago, IL November 2012 to August 2014 App Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.usablenet.mobile.walgreen&hl=en    Description: Walgreens app is a pharmacy app to facilitate easy purchase of medicines. It has a well-defined feature capability such as GPS, Camera and Barcode scanner and flashlight capability. It provides the features like store locator and check product availability and pricing at any store. Users can refill the prescription by scanning the barcode. It has other features like making appointments in clinics, pill reminder, chat with pharmacy.    Responsibilities  • Developed App screens and its workflow using Activities and Fragments.  • Developed rich UI for the most of the modules in the application using RecyclerView, ScrollView, ViewPager and Navigation Drawer.  • Customized different widgets that include Buttons, Toasts and Dialogs.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services.  • Worked with Retrofit for handling HTTP based REST API request and response.  • Implemented the scanner functionality of the application using the ZXing (Zebra Crossing) library for Barcodes.  • Implemented Android Speech Recognition API to take the orders.  • Used Android Content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc., from the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  • Implemented LocationManager (GPS) to find the stores and to know whether the user is inside the store.  • Implemented the Google Map and Place API to get the JSON data by restful protocol which shows the nearby stores in a specific location.  • Implemented Android Multimedia Framework for integrating audio, video and images into the application.  • Implemented Camera API to share photos and videos with the doctor.  • Used Glide library for loading the images and customizing them.  • Implemented PUSH notification using Google cloud Messaging (GCM), so that the user knows that the order is in transit  • Used SVN for Version Control.  • Implemented MVP design pattern in designing and development of this project.  • Performed on device debugging using ADB commands and tested application in device using Logcat, DDMS.  • Used Espresso framework to create automated UI tests.    Environment: Android SDK, Android studio, JDK 1.6, Android API's, MVP design pattern, SQLite 3.6, RESTFUL Web services, JSON, XML, GPS service, Glide library, Windows 7, SVN (version control), DDMS console, Logcat, ADB server. Android Developer Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center - New York, NY January 2011 to November 2012 Description: The Lounge app is a safe and protected mobile application through which teen and young adult Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center patients (ages 18-30) can ask questions, meet other patients and survivors, find resources, and receive information about local programming and events.    Responsibilities  • Actively involved in all the phases of SDLC such as requirement gathering, development, and testing.  • Ensured system integration with mobile and web applications by working with the development team.  • Worked with Dialog Fragments for Pop-up and Used List Adapters, Spinners, and Loaders.  • Followed Agile methodology throughout the project development life cycle.  • Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs, participated in daily standups, sprint reviews, Kickoffs.  • Worked on the local data storage using Shared Preferences, SQLite databases and the file system.  • Developed App screens and its workflow using Activity and Fragments which has views such as List View and Scroll View.  • Used GIT for code management.  • Constructing HTTP requests, fetching server response and parsing feeds wherever required.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Used Espresso as an Android test automation framework to write powerful and robust automatic black-box test cases.  • Handling XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser.  Environment: Android Studio, Android SDK 4.4, JUnit, Espresso, SQLite, JSON, REST Web Services, Angular JS, XML, Agile. Software Developer Hyderabad, Telangana September 2009 to December 2010 Description: Manage My Patient is a web application for patients and medical offices. This system allows the office administrators to organize their medical relationships with patients. In this system, a patient can view, schedule and receive reminders of appointments, pay fees, view their health records. Administrators can organize all of their patients, view their claims and update their medical records. The provider can add, edit reports and prescriptions of the patients.    Responsibilities  • Involved in the development of patient module application as per the client requirement using Core Java, JSP, Struts and JDBC.  • Used Struts Framework for implementing the MVC Architecture.  • Developed data access object (DAO) layer for patient (To book their appointments) and Doctors (To see the appointments scheduled) using Struts JDBC API (Stored Procedures).  • Responsible in implementation of the presentation layer for the application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls.  • Actively involved in the Software Development Life Cycle.  • Involved in communicating, coordinating meetings with the client and taking the requirements.  • Involved in fixing the bugs posted in JIRA tool.  • Proactively participated in the developer meetings conducted by the client and explained the project flow and database mapping.    Environment: JAVA, Struts2, Spring Framework, Apache Tomcat, AJAX. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills ANDROID (6 years), JSON (6 years), WEB SERVICES (6 years), TESTING (5 years), HTTP (4 years), Android SDK, Eclipse, DDMS, Java, JQuery, Backbone.js, Underscore.js, Plugins, SQLite3, Multi-threading, POST, JSON, Bluetooth, Logcat, Windows 7 , GIT, JIRA. Links https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.usablenet.mobile.walgreen&hl=en Additional Information SKILLS    Android (6 years), HTTP (4 years), JSON (6 years), Testing (4 years), Web Services (6 years)    Technical Skills    Android App  Mobile Development    Activities, AppCompat, Transitions, Design support Library, Services, Broadcast Receivers, ListViews, Adapters, ViewHolder, Notification Manager, Content Provider, DDMS, Location, GoogleMap, HTTP Client, JSON based Web Services, Camera API, Facebook API.    Programming Languages Java, C++, JSON. Markup Languages HTML5, CSS3, JSON, XML.  Debugging and Testing Tool Logcat, DDMS, ADB, JUnit, Mockito. Robotium,    Operating Systems Windows XP, 7, 8, 10, Linux, Fedora, Mac OSX. RDBMS SQLite, Microsoft SQL [ ] Oracle 10g, 11g, MySQL 4.0/5.0. IDE Android Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans.  Version Control/Continuous Integration Tools Mercurial, GitHub, SVN, Jenkins. Scripting languages JavaScript, JQuery  Servers Amazon web server, Web Logic 8.1/9.2, Apache Tomcat 6.0, IIS.