Sr. Android Developer Sr. Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Android Developer - T-Mobile Atlanta, GA • Over 8 years of experience in JAVA with over 5 years of Android application development and extensive experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), application design, development, testing, debugging, documentation, deployment and integration of different software applications.  • Experienced with Android SDK tools, Debugger, DDMS and AVD.  • Strong expertise in working with several versions of Android SDKs and various Android Framework APIs.  • Strong expertise in using IDEs like Android Studio, ADT Bundle with Eclipse, Xamarin Studio, Visual Studio.  • Experience on Android UI components such as TextView, ListView, Customized ListView, Menus, Edit boxes, Buttons, Checkboxes, Dialog boxes, Alert boxes, Action bars, and Spinners for various layouts in Application development.  • In-depth knowledge of android Operating system, reactive mobile application development and Memory Management.  • Experience in Database development using SQLite, Database, OrmLite Database, MySQL and MS Access.  • Involved in all the parts of Android Architecture Applications, Application Frameworks, Libraries, Android Run time and Linux kernel.  • Experience in handling Web services application using SOAP, RESTful and TCP.  • Experienced in working with Google Map APIs, Push Notifications, Content providers, multiple screen support, data offline storage, accounts and sync on Android.  • Developing applications involving User Interface development, Adapters, Services, JSON Parsing and Telephony Manager.  • Proficiency in Core Java, C#, JNI, C++, Opengl Android and Model-View- Controller (MVC) design pattern.  • Developed User Interfaces using HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and AJAX, Angular JS.  • Excellent knowledge in implementing Material Design and optimizing techniques using ListViews, GridView, Recycler Views.  • Experience in Android NDK using C++ to access physical components and Android application framework.  • Hands on experience using Media framework using Android API and skills like Multimedia usage, video, sound and graphics, networking.  • Experience on implementation of Generic Bluetooth HAL using Bluetooth Stack and customized it.  • Expertise in integrating libraries such as Retrofit 1.9 and 2.0, Butter knife, Picasso, Volley, Dagger Roboguice in application development.  • Involved in graphic design, Audio, Video features & handling various kinds of media using Photoshop, Flash.  • Knowledge on Automotive and portable consumer electronic devices  • Hands on Experience in Developing Telecom Applications on Wireless 3G platform And Wi-Fi, Messaging and Bluetooth.  • Experienced in a fast paced Agile Development Environment including Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.  • Experience using version control software such as SVN, GitHub for effective code maintenance, tracking, logging and deployment.  • Experienced in deploying Mobile applications to Google Play store, Amazon Play Store. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Android Developer T-Mobile - Atlanta, GA October 2016 to Present T-Mobile continues to change the wireless industry by giving more control of the mobile device through My Account with latest features like check battery and device performance and Gives the user fast access to manage their account by checking activity such as data plans also help to fix problem along with Account management, bill pay and detailed tracking of account transactions.  Responsibilities  • Involved in different phases of the project life cycle like design, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked on Location Manager API and Google Location Services to locate nearby agents with respect to the customer with the ability to navigate to the agent and call the agent location.  • Worked with the UI/UX and business team to design, implement the screens and app architecture.  • Used Automotive for syncing mobiles, where user can Locate and Navigate to nearby T-mobile store  • Worked on UI front end technologies like HTML5, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX and Angular JS.  • Implemented Retrofit asynchronously so that the long running operations could be carried out on a background thread.  • Developed the application to adapt to different orientations (Landscape/Portrait) and various resolutions (ldpi/ mdpi/hdpi) based on the device.  • Implementation of a TCP/IP connection management protocol that handles incoming connections requests from client apps on the Server end.  • Implemented a Home screen with Navigation Drawer allowing user to switch between screens from anywhere in the application.  • Involved in the development of the Login authentication process using token services for the secure authorization and authentication on the application.  • Included Dagger for dependency injection for mocking JSON with Mockito into RESTful API web service.  • Implemented web views, list views & populated lists, recycler views, material design to display the lists using simple adapters, base adapters and recycler view adapter.  • Implemented capturing the screenshot of the payment screen, Bitmap to pdf conversion features Using Android NDK implementing C/C++ code.  • Implemented horizontal recycler view to show the current trending items  • Used Fragments to make the application adapt to different screens and devices with different densities.  • Utilized Shared Preferences to store and maintain user information.  • Used ADB (Android Debugging Bridge) command line for installing APK's and as a debugging tool (extracting log files).  • Worked closely with iOS developers to design and develop custom features and applications  • Experienced in a fast paced Agile Development Environment including Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.  • Design and Development of APIs in the NDK layer for various features, functionalities available in the Native layer.  • Wrote reactive sleep score calculation component composed of asynchronous and event-based calls using observable sequences using RxJava / RxAndroid.  • Wrote Unit Test using JUnit, Mockito and Espresso.  • Used GIT for version control and followed Agile with JIRA for implementing this project.  • Used GIT-HUB as our project version controller, where used to commit and push the developed, working code.  • Used SCRUM and Agile software development method for releases and managing application development.  Environment: Android Studio, Android SDK, , SQLite, Eclipse IDE, Espresso, Volley, Dagger , OpenGL, Soap UI, JDK, XML, JSON, Services and Receivers, Material design , Angular JS, SQLite, LogCat. Android Developer Well Care - Tampa, FL August 2014 to September 2016 Description: The application contains all the details of medicines, nearby hospitals and list of available doctors on site. Using the location and GPS of the customer, the application navigates to the nearby hospitals right away. Wellcare patients also have access to their personal medical record, appointment schedule and other services using their Patient Online Services account and also weather alerts are displayed whenever the customer opens up the application.  Responsibilities  • Involved in the requirement gathering, designing and developing of the application.  • Work clo sely with the web application development team to ensure proper system integration between mobile application and web application.  • Implemented navigation help using Android Locations and used components using Google Maps API v.2 forward and reverse geo-location, Location service, and Geo Coding.  • Constructed HTTP requests, fetching server response and parsing feeds wherever required  • Worked on the local Data storage using Shared Preferences, SQLite databases and the file system.  • Worked with UI and team to design appropriate icon and display on the screen.  • Migrated from AsyncTasks and IntentServices based components to a reactive paradigm with RxJava.  • Used Retrofit and RX-Java to replace existing out of date HTTP Client, working with JSON Array and JSON Objects.  • Developed Node.JS REST API's and web services.  • Also, developed Web API using Node.JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Implemented TDD testing mechanism and build Unit test cases using JUNIT.  • Developed some parts of app by writing native methods using JNI..  • Developed by using Dagger dependency injection framework while creating observables on main thread and arbitrary loppers  • Developed user-friendly User-Interfaces (UI) using widgets like Menus, Dialogs, Layouts, Buttons, & Edit boxes; created selection widgets like List View using Array Adapters & Scroll View as per client needs  • Used Espresso as an Android test Automation framework to write powerful and robust automatic black-box test cases  • Used TDD to implement in Maintenance projects where the type of work is micro bug fixes, small enhancements.  • Used SCRUM-Agile software development method for managing application developments.  • Used GIT for code repository and maintaining current and historical versions of the source code.    Environment: Android SDK 4.4, Android Studio, Android NDK, JUnit, Espresso, SQLite, Linux , Dagger JSON, REST Web Services, NodeJS , XML, GIT, Agile. Android Developer My Fitness Pal - San Francisco, CA November 2012 to July 2014 Calorie Counter - My Fitness Pal is a free app which tracks your diet and exercise. Enter foods from the largest food database and connect with over 50 devices and apps including Fit bit, Jawbone UP, Garmin and runtastic. You can create your own custom foods and exercises, track all major nutrients, progress reports, customized goals based on your diet profile. Lastly, track a food just by scanning it's barcode from over 4 million barcodes.    App Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.myfitnesspal.android    Responsibilities  • Designed and developed mobile health application for Android mobile devices with extensive user interface development. Responsible for design of user interface using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes and EditText.  • Involved in prototyping, analysis, specification, design, and implementation phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Utilized View Pager, Fragments, custom views and List Views for clean and intuitive UI.  • Included Drawer layout for ease of navigation throughout the application.  • Embedded user login functionality with client server and Facebook login API.  • Used Android to realize camera/video application, familiar with SOAP/RESTful webservice and httpconnnections, liking JSON, HttpUrlConnection, HttpClient  • Using Sencha Touch for development to find relevant people for the same social Networking Websites.  • Designed and developed the User Interfaces, Designed Dynamic UI with Fragments using Google Material design.  • Used the WiFi Manager of the Android API to establish the connections between client and server.  • Debugged and wrote test code to verify the new kernel using JTAG debugger.  • Worked on the System landscape including development, testing and production and set up and configured the Linux and SQL database.  • Implemented Camera API to scan the bar code of the product  • Worked with video players Like NexPlayer, VisualOn, Widevine, ExoPlayer and responsible for integrating and testing video streaming and DRM content  • Implemented Bluetooth logic to interact with portable device and mobile phone  • Design screens using MVC pattern for the application with Android Studio IDE  • Performed on device debugging using ADB and tested application in device using Logcat, DDMS.  • Used SCRUM-Agile software development method for managing application developments.  • Worked on Migrating projects using ADT plugin to Android Studio and accordingly from Ant to Gradle.  • Implement a Broadcast receiver framework, register receiver to receive Screen ON/OFF broadcast event from the Android system and also experienced working on Bluetooth connectivity and NFC connectivity.  • Used GIT for version control and followed Agile with JIRA for implementing this project.  • Developed using Android Studio & Gradle with Git and GitHub source control systems    Environment: Android SDK2.3, Android studio Activity, Fragment, Service, Material design, SQLite3, Multi- threading, POST, JSON, Bluetooth, Linux Kernel, etc. JAVA/ Web Application Developer Eliassen Group - Bedford, MA March 2011 to September 2012 Description: This application helps users to pay bills, manage accounts, transactions, see account activity, manage alerts and check balances. In addition to that this app also helps to track recent and pas transactions.    Responsibilities  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development life cycle.  • Involved in business requirement gathering and technical specifications.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  • Used Struts, JSP, Java Script, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections.Involved in testing using JUnit and fixing defects assigned on JIRA; resolved many challenging tasks while migrating by taking care of the sessions and creating Stubs as per new environment  • Used EJBs (Stateless Session beans) to implement the business logic.  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build and package and deploy the application.  • Testing included emulator and device testing with multiple versions and sizes with the help of ADB.  • Implemented the localization feature for multi-language support.  • Wrote Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface.  • Backend application layer is implemented using EJB (Enterprise Java Bean) in WebLogic Application Server environment.  • Created Stored procedures using PL/SQL for data modification (Using DML insert, update, delete) in Oracle.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, Struts, Spring, PL-SQL, HTML, Web logic Application Server, Rational Rose, UML, MS Visio, XML, Oracle, Log4j, Unix. Software Developer Que Labs Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2009 to December 2010 Description: This is a proprietary web application developed for a better Healthcare system in Apollo Hospitals taking full advantages of what Desktop could offer. The app would need a login which every staff member has, status setting (available, busy and so on), a presence based directory, notifications to e-mail, to help the hospital staff always stay connected and work with minimum interruption.    Responsibilities  • Involved in the analysis, design, development, and testing phases of the application.  • Understood all project requirements as specified in Use Case document and Requirement specification document  • Developed web interface using Servlets, JSP, HTML, JavaScript  • Extensively used Java Collections like Array List, Hash Map.  • Involved in coding using Java Servlets, created web pages using JSPs for generating pages dynamically.  • Extensively used core Java concepts such as OOP and exception handling.  • Involved in developing forms using HTML and performing client side validations using JavaScript.  • Used JDBC to communicate from java to database.  • Involved in Creation of tables in database.  • Implemented Hibernate and replaced JDBC code.  • Involved in the development of test cases for the testing phase.  • Used Eclipse for the development of environment J2EE.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, Java Scripts, Servlets, JDBC, Apache Tomcat5.0. Education Bachelor's Bandari Srinivas institute of technology Skills Android (5 years), API (5 years), Java (5 years), JSON (5 years), testing (8 years), Android Studio, Android SDK, , SQLite, Eclipse IDE, Espresso, Volley, Dagger , OpenGL, Soap UI, JDK, XML, JSON, Services and Receivers, Material design , Angular JS, SQLite, LogCat., Embedded, Framework, Git, Android Sdk, Google Additional Information SKILLS    TESTING (7 years), JUNIT (4 years), XML (4 years), ANDROID (4 years), API (4 years)  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TECHNICAL SKILLS  Android App  Mobile Development    Activities, Services, Broadcast Receivers, ListViews, Adapters, ViewHolder, Notification Manager, Content Provider, DDMS, Location, GoogleMap, HTTP Client, JSON based Web Services, Camera API, Facebook API,    Programming Languages Java, C, C++, C#, Python, JSON. Markup Languages HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JSON, XML.  Debugging and Testing Tool Logcat, DDMS, ADB, JUnit, Mockito. Robotium, Operating Systems Windows XP, 7, 8, 10, Linux, Mac OSX.  RDBMS SQLite, Microsoft SQL [ ] Oracle 10g, 11g, MySQL 4.0/5.0,Realm Database.Workbench. IDE Android Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans,  Version Control/Continuous Integration Tools Mercurial, GitHub, SVN, Jenkins. Scripting languages JavaScript, JQuery  Servers Amazon web server, Web Logic 8.1/9.2, Apache Tomcat 6.0.