Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer Round Rock, TX I have worked in the software industry for over 6 years especially in the software as a service. I have great experience working with C# web development, especially in troubleshooting and quality control as the software I worked on was financial in nature and needed extreme quality. I have worked as a Scrum Master and am CSM certified so have a great deal of experience in working on an Agile team and with large teams. I am excited to learn newer technologies especially around front end development and have worked on large front end upgrades in the past. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer IBC Mortgage - Austin, TX May 2019 to Present Creating .NETCore applications to use an API framework to audit, report, and update multiple mortgage systems. Creating form code and UI to help users compete data entry quickly and efficiently. Software Engineer Accruent - Austin, TX August 2015 to October 2018 Managed a pod of contractors on taking our maintenance work using Kanban development. Acted as tech lead for the engineers on several pods to help deliver tickets during the sprint. Created GET APIs and financial features for our product that delivered a lot of value in to the clients. Associate Software Engineer Accruent - Austin, TX November 2013 to August 2015 Began working on bug fixes and moved to pod scrum master for our front  end pod and implemented UI improvements based on client feedback. Support Engineer Accruent - Austin, TX June 2012 to November 2013 I partnered with client administrators to customize their portfolios and maximize the usage of our SAAS solution. Trained both new client administrators and internal new hires for our product across department. Education Bachelor's of Science in Engineering John Brown University - Siloam Springs, AR May 2011 Skills Agile (4 years), Scrum (4 years), Kanban (2 years), Software Development (5 years), C# (5 years), Jira, Agile Scrum, CSM, Javascript (3 years), .NET (5 years), Git, CSS (3 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/benlusby Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) May 2018 to April 2020 Renewed my scrum master certification from the scrum alliance.