Lead Application Developer Lead Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer (Angular / Spring) Stamford, CT Experienced professional as Lead Application developer with 7 years in the IT industry and high-level proficiency in many  front end and back end technologies, responsive frameworks, databases and best code practices.    Professional Summary  * 7 years of experience in developing web/mobile applications using latest web technologies/frameworks.  * Extensive experience in UI development, coding, testing, implementation and support.  * Proficient in Javascript frameworks Angular, Vue.js and other Javascript libraries/frameworks Underscore.js, Ionic  framework, Kendo UI.  * Expertise in Angular V2 and V4.  * Very good knowledge in Node.js and Typescript adhering to ES6/ES7 standards.  * Proficient in building rich user interface (UI), responsive web applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Jquery.  * Very good exposure in Redis Memory, AWS Elasticache, Redux store.  * Good understanding of application deployment in AWS using CI/CD pipeline, Jenkins. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Lead Application Developer Capital One November 2018 to Present Building and maintaining a customer service application (CRM) that helps the agents to service the credit card customers across US & Canada and is roughly used by 15000+ call centre representatives to service their customers with maximum  efficiency. The application is built on Vue.js and runs on the node environment, it comprises of multiple containers and  hosted in AWS cloud. Logging and Monitoring on ELK and Kibana. Unit testing is ensured using Cucumber, Jest.    Technologies/Tools used: Angular 6, Vue.js, Node.js, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Gears, Redis, Elasticache, AWS, VSCode, Postman, ELK, Kibana. Application Developer Capital One - Dallas, TX February 2018 to October 2018 Build and maintain a data audit application for the Capital One Auto Finance. The application helps the users to audit  millions of data(transactions) in auto finance. With a lot of features, this application makes it easy to audit of millions of data with perfection. Extensive client-side coding using AngularJS 1.x and Spring framework in the middle layer.    Technologies/Tools used: AngularJs, Node.js, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Java, Spring, Apache tomcat, Jenkins, VSCode, IntelliJ, Eclipse IDE. Software Engineer DXC Technologies January 2017 to January 2018 Build and maintain a finest laboratory management application that is web and mobile compatible. It is built in Angular 4 with Node.js. Developed rich UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap with Angular material components and customized Md2  date-picker. Developed auto complete component, also used Underscore.js and Md2 components to create custom  input elements, drop downs and SFS.    Technologies/Tools used: Angular 4, Node.js, Typescript, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Underscore.js, JQuery, Angular- Material, Kendo UI, Visual Studio++, VSCode. Software Engineer DXC Technologies January 2016 to December 2016 To develop and maintain an healthcare application addressing the administrative and clinical information management  requirements of healthcare providers. Following the modern standards and with the help of NHS-trained healthcare  professionals to deliver powerful clinical and management tools through a rich user experience. Supporting both mobile and web versions. Developed custom filters, used Kendo UI components date time picker, kendo grid.    Technologies/Tools used: Ionic framework V2, Angular 4, Node.js, Typescript, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, Webpack, Kendo UI, VSCode, Eclipse. Software Engineer DXC Technologies August 2015 to December 2015 To build a mobile version of a legacy healthcare application. Lorenzo is an application used by the National Health  Service, United Kingdom and is the world's largest healthcare project. This application covers end to end activities  carried out in hospitals and provides a complete solution for the Health Care industry. The application is built on AngularJs 1.4, created multiple custom directives, used Kendo components, developed accordion components. Used  apache cordova and phone gap.    Technologies/Tools used: AngularJS 1.4, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Kendo UI, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap. Software Engineer SWide Technologies April 2013 to July 2015 Build and maintain a FOREX Trading web application that helps the users to keep an eye on FOREX market statistics  with the help of FOREX charts available in the application, it records the exact market statistics and represents the same via different charting techniques which are easy to analyze the market trend. Built on AngularJs1.4 following  MVC architecture, created custom directives and reusable components, developed FOREX graphs using SVG of application development lifecycle methodologies.    Technologies/Tools used: AngularJS 1.4, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Kendo UI, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Eclipse IDE. Software Engineer Tata Consultancy Services September 2012 to January 2013 Hotel management application developed using Mainframes to manage day-to-day activities of a hotel. Such as booking  rooms, maintenance, house-keeping, lodging customer complaints and resolving the same. Admin and Receptionist  access with differentiated functionalities.    Technologies/Tools used: Mainframes, CICS, COBOL, Z-OS, DB2, HTML5, CSS3. Education Bachelors of Technology in Information Technology SRM University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2008 to May 2012 Skills ANGULARJS, BOOTSTRAP, HTML5, VISUAL STUDIO, JAVASCRIPT Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/pavithra728 Additional Information Technical Skills    Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery, JSON, NodeJs, Java, Spring, MV*  Frameworks like AngularJS (different versions), Angular2, Angular 4, VueJs,  Bootstrap, Ionic framework.  IDE, Editors: Eclipse IDE, VS Code, IntelliJ, Visual Studio ++, Notepad++  Web/App Servers: Apache Tomcat 7.0, HTTP Web Server, Web Logic.  Browser: All (IE, Firefox, Opera, Chrome, Safari)