TIBCO Consultant TIBCO Consultant TIBCO Consultant - Entergy Houston, TX • Result-driven professional experience in IT industry for over 7+ years with active involvement in all stages of project development and management including requirement analysis, estimation, design, code development/enhancement, unit/integration testing and support role.  • Extensive experience with Software Development Life Cycle and Quality procedures  • Experience in Enterprise Applications Integration (EAI) development using full range of TIBCO Products TIBCO Rendezvous, Active Database (ADB) Adapter, File Adapters, TIBCO Hawk, TIBCO Active Matrix Business Works, TIBCO Enterprise for JMS/EMS  • Deployed projects on different environments using TIBCO BW Administrator and App Manage utility, automated shell scripting to deploy common services and master projects.  • Experience in Installation, Trouble shooting and support of TIBCO products.  • Hands-on experience in Analysis, development, testing, installing and deployment of Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) projects using TIBCO components, architecture and methodology.  • Experience in developing test cases and test plans for system testing and involved in unit testing, Integration testing and UAT extensively.  • Expert in change management, team coordination and mentoring team members.  • Strong experience in testing and implementation phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Competent in Database development using SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Stored Functions, Packages and Triggers.  • Expertise in performance testing and tuning BW accordingly.  • Experienced with Waterfall methodology and agile methodology.  • An effective communicator with strong team management, interpersonal, analytical and problem-solving skills.  • A patient individual with a very positive attitude along with skills in time and resource management. Work Experience TIBCO Consultant Entergy - Houston, TX December 2018 to Present Entergy Corporation is primarily a energy based company which operates the electric power production and retail distribution operations in the United States. TIBCO is used for developing new Enterprise interfaces and integrating them based on the utility.    Responsibilities  • Resolution of defects (if any) identified in the delivered codes.  • Testing and deployment of codes in all environments (Dev, QA, stage, prod) using TIBCO Administrator.  • Frequent interaction with client, business teams, external partners, external vendors, functional and application team members for requirement gathering and analysis.  • Developing (using TIBCO designer) the new EDI interfaces (850,810 etc) and implementing them on production after thorough testing on lower environments.  • Creating and deploying TIBCO hawk rules for all the components deployed on TIBCO Administrator.  • Working on incident, problem and change management in support project.  • Configured HAWK rule bases to monitor various components and for scheduled restarts of the BW processes.  • Setup Queues, Topics and Bridges in TIBCO EMS Servers.  • Created processes using JDBC palettes for database lookup to get configuration data such as vendor names, mailing lists, dynamic processes etc.  • Provided design documentation, production support handbook and knowledge transfer sessions.  • Training and managing offshore team.  • Proactive monitoring of production environment to avoid any issues to business.    Environment: TIBCO BW5.x, EMS 8.x , TIBCO Hawk 5.x, SoapUI , XML Spy , Winscp , Putty , SVN Senior TIBCO Developer CENTENE CORPORATION - St. Louis, MO March 2017 to November 2018 This project implements an automated workflow solution for end to end processing of EDI X12 health care claims transactions. The processing of the EDI transaction 837P is automated to provide an orchestration layer that streamlines various jobs involved in the completion of the processing    Responsibilities  • Implemented projects using agile methodology for iterative and incremental development.  • Involved in SDLC of the project  • Implemented 4010 to 5010 Conversion of 837P EDI X-12 transaction using EDI implementation guide.  • Created user stories on each step involved during the release and updated using JIRA to track the status of the tasks.  • Developed multiple interfaces to handle real time transactions over Event driven and SOA architecture.  • Generated various schemas as per the mapping involved in the process flows.  • Created Acceptance test cases upon development to support the testing team in performing their testing.  • Used CLE logging frame work to handle all the exceptions in a Business process.  • Documented Operations Flow and Design for 837P transaction.  • Implemented queue level, log level monitoring for all the EMS queues and deployed services, respectively.  • Successfully designed, developed, tested, deployed and administered the interface using TIBCO Business Works integration platform and TIBCO Administrator.  • Used Tortoise SVN for source control and used Changeman to manage the environment migrations.  • Implemented error handling in Business Works and conducted Unit testing, component testing and supported system testing.    Environment: TIBCO BusinessWorks 5.x, TIBCO Administrator 5.x, TIBCO Designer 5.x, TIBCO EMS 6.x, TIBCO Runtime Agent 5.x,SFDC Oracle10g, SQL, Altova XML spy, SOAP UI, XML and XSD TIBCO Developer NBC Universal - Los Angeles, CA May 2016 to February 2017 The National Broadcasting Company is an American English-language commercial terrestrial television network that is a flagship property of NBCUniversal, a subsidiary of Comcast. TIBCO is used an integration software to Integrate all the Internal Applications    Responsibilities  • Involved in Analysis, design, development of Project.  • Involved in technical design of the message flows.  • Involved in creating test plans and test cases to check the validity of the product  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing  • Maintenance & Support of the existing applications.  • Work with support and maintenance teams to diagnose/solve issues after production migration.  • Involved in quality processes like documentation review, code review, and creation and updating the project system Documentation.  • Worked extensively on XML schema design.  • Involved working with several web services like SOAP/HTTP, SOAP/JMS.  • Involved in the development and testing of the change requests.  • Providing technical leadership and guidance to the team  • Acted as advisor and mentor to new or existing lower level analysts.  • Co-ordinate with clients in resolving issues or solving critical tasks.  • Co-coordinating with the upstream and downstream applications whenever required.    Environment: TIBCO Active Matrix Business Works 5.6, TIBCO Enterprise Messaging Service (EMS) TIB/Designer 5.6, TIBCO Decision Manager, Apache Subversion (SVN), Oracle Tibco Developer Allstate - Chicago, IL March 2015 to April 2016 The Allstate Insurance Company is the nation's largest publicly held Auto. Home and personal life insurer. Tibco Business works is used to synchronize and orchestrate data between multiple applications. Project involves developing new services as part of the All State one view Project.    Responsibilities  • Involved in complete SDLC for the project collecting requirements, design, development, deployment and Production.  • Worked as Development and Production support personnel actively involving with the Business, Development, Testing and Deployment teams.  • Implemented error handling, logging and auditing by making use of Common Services and TIBCO.  • Configuring the Common Services in the TIBCO projects.  • Created unit, integration and system test plans for the developed interfaces.  • Facilitated establishing TIBCO Business Works coding and subject naming standards.  • Involved in code walkthroughs with the Integration Architects and fine-tuned the application for better performance.  • Created EAR Files for the developed BW components.  • Involved in executing the test scripts and raising the bug tickets.  • Involved in Agile testing in Patches and performing testing while development.  • Involved in Production runs and Regression/UAT/Load testing.  • Extensively used the TIBCO design time libraries in the Business Works integration.  • Implemented SOA architecture by designing and building reusable services by using WSDL, Service and SOAP.  • Deployed TIBCO Business Works Engine in Load balancing and Fault tolerance  • Developed and implemented the Audit and Error handling standards for all interfaces.  • Created Common Data Model for the various business objects.  • Created mapping matrix to convert custom data to common data and common data to custom data.  • 24/7 customer support for TIBCO - application and Assistance Centre assigned the reported issue and intimated the Support workgroup.    Environment: TIBCO Business Works 5.7, TIBCO Designer 5.6,TIBCO EMS 5.1, TIBCO Rendezvous 8.1.2, TIBCO Administrator, XML, XSD, TIBCO HAWK 4.6, Windows XP, UNIX,SOAP UI,CML SPY, Clear case. Software Engineer Dan Law Technologies August 2013 to July 2014 Tibco  India  Our client for this project was AMEX, one of the leading banking sectors based in United States of America. This project named GNA (Global New Accounts) was to acquire new customers for American Express credit cards. Global New Accounts is a Mainframe Acquisition Platform which decides on applications for new accounts. There are set of End to end rules which drives the application process.    Responsibilities  • VIN - Inspection implementation using TIBCO Business Works, Mobile APP sends  • the data to TIBCO BW which has details on the inspection  • Developed TIBCO BW interfaces Sync/Async integration with source systems.  • Handled service requests related to TIBCO EMS configuration, TIBCO Hawk configuration and TIBCO BW deployments.  • Responsible for Bug fixes/CRs to the Production environment.  • Handled support activities for higher environments.    Environment: TIBCO Designer, TIBCO AMX BW, EMS, BW Administrator, HAWK, TIBCO Adapters Software Engineer- Java Dan Law Technologies April 2012 to July 2013 India    Responsibilities  • Done with Client side validations using JavaScript.  • Developed the web layer using Struts. Used Validator framework of the Struts for client side and server side validation  • The UI was designed using JSP, templates, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery and JSON.  • Used JAXP for parsing & JAXB for binding.  • Involved in writing services to write core logic for business processes.  • Involved in writing database queries, stored procedures, functions etc.  • Deployed EJB Components on Web Logic, Used JDBC API for interaction with Oracle DB.  • Involved in Transformations using XSLT to prepare HTML pages from XML files.  • Involved in Unit Testing, code review for the various enhancements.  • Followed coding guide lines while developing workflows.  • Involved in end to end implementation of the application.    Environment: Java 1.4, J2EE (EJB, JSP/Servlets, JDBC, XML), My Eclipse, Web Logic, Struts, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, EJB, XML, XSD, XSLT, JAXB, JAXP, ANT, SVN. Skills Db2, Tibco, Eai, Visual studio, Application server, Html, Scripting, Svn, Visio, Visual basic, Xml, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Clear case, Tomcat, Eclipse, J2ee Additional Information Technical Skills  High level Languages C, Java, J2EE, SQL,PL/SQL, Unix Shell Scripting  Databases Familiarity Microsoft SQL Server, DB2, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11i.  EAI Tools  TIBCO Business Works 5.x, TIBCO Administrator, EMS 4.x/5.x/6.x/7.x, TIBCO Adapters (File, ADB), TIBCO Hawk Suite 4.x, TRA 5.x, TIB RVD, SOAPUI.    Operating System Windows, Unix, Linux  Packages MS Office, Visual Basic.  Web Technologies HTML, JSP, Java script, XML.  Designing Tools Microsoft Visio, XML Spy.  IDE Eclipse, Visual Studio.  Web/Application server Apache Tomcat  Version Control SVN, Clear Case.