Sr. Software Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer .Net Developer Minneapolis, MN • Total 7 Years of experience in analysis, design and development of client/server, web based and n-tier application with C# on ASP.NET and demonstrated experience with a combination of technologies including JavaScript/jQuery/AngularJS, HTML5/CSS3, AJAX, JSON, XML, XSLT and MS SQL Server.  • Implemented Data Access Layer, Business Logic Layer & User Interface in monolithic architecture with C# .Net.  • Experienced in developing and enhancing Asp.Net Webforms by using HTML, CSS, and Asp.Net Controls such as Master Pages, User Controls and Custom Controls.  • Experienced in working with Microsoft framework Asp.Net MVC and MVP Design Pattern.  • Extensively worked on Creating, Transmitting and Consuming WCF and REST services.  • Experienced in LINQ along with Entity Framework for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation of different data sources.  • Expertise in web design, development and deployment using, node.JS, Bootstrap framework for developing UI.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX to develop dynamic web applications for enhanced user experience.  • Utilized Services and Factories with dependency injection in Angular JS and ASP.NET MVC.  • Experience in Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS, created Multiple & Nested Views, Routing, Controllers, Services and Custom Directives.   • Expert in debugging application using debugging tools provided by the Visual Studio.  • Expert in development methodologies like Agile (SCRUM), Waterfall & Test-driven development.  • Worked closely with product owners, developers, program managers, scrum masters and other test teams to ensure the quality of the owned components.  • Proficient in using Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, Oracle PLSQL, T-SQL and creating database tables, normalization, user-defined function, trigger, view, stored procedures, queries and constraints based upon business requirements.  • Experience in building service-oriented applications by implementing in SOA architecture through WCF services that communicate across the web features Serialization, Versioning, Interoperability and hosting.  • Strong experience in usage of Source Control and Version Control tools like Team Foundation Server (TFS), Tortoise Subversion, and Perforce P4V.  • Good knowledge on Salesforce CRM and MuleSoft.  • Knowledge with developing reports and data conversion, ETL solutions using Microsoft Business Intelligence stack including SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Extensive work experience in WCF Storm, Postman, JIRA, Confluence and Team City.  • Worked extensively with DataReader, DataSet, and DataAdapter in ADO.NET.  • Interaction with client and third party vendors to understand problems/needs and providing solutions to the critical issues and created documentation to verify that it meets the requirement of the design documents.  • Good communication skills and works collaboratively in a team environment with the ability to work independently Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Allianz Life - Minneapolis, MN November 2018 to Present Description: BASS (Benefit Administration Super System)  Allianz is a leading provider of retirement solutions, including fixed and variable annuities and life insurance for individuals. BASS is a Policy administrative system which would provide the end to end solution related financial and non-financial information. Team conducts, design, development and testing of the modules that require real time data.    Responsibilities:  • Working on modernizing and migrating the Acquisition Integration and its related applications and processes from Legacy to Cloud.  • Software development in C# 4.0, ASP.Net to implement business logic layer and code behind view models and components.  • Developed User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, and JQuery for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Used MVC for dependency injection, faster development process used to support asynchronous technique and design patterns.  • Used .Net MVC to allow for greater code separation and implemented a view engine that allowed for greater code reuse.  • Writing scripts to create Tables, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursors, Joins, views, for new enhancements using TOAD and created indexes on tables for fast retrieval of data to improve the database performance other Complex Queries using Oracle 10g/9i.  • Database programming using complex SQL Queries, Data Scripts, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Views in SQL Server.  • Responsible for migrating large amount of data using ETL tool from production servers, excel, flat files and this data is extracted, transformed and loaded into Oracle database by implementing the mappings or transformations of data based on source to target specifications.  • Utilized ADO.Net Entity Framework Database First technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ to Entities.  • Extensively worked on Creating, Transmitting and Consuming WCF and Web Services and tested using SOAPUI.  • Develop Unit Test and Integration Test using NUnit framework to detect and solve issues related with the application as part of test driven development.  • Creating configuration, build, and test scripts for Continuous Integration environments.  • Maintain existing application and support production issues with full understanding of industry practices, company standards and processes.  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodologies and attending daily scrum status meetings.  Environment: C#.Net, Visual Studio 2017, ASP.NET, ADO.Net Entity Framework, MVC 5.0, LINQ, WCF, Oracle 10g PL/SQL, TFS, JavaScript, jQuery, MS SQL 2012, Web Services, SOAPUI, JIRA, Confluence Software Engineer HCL America Inc - Cary, NC January 2017 to November 2018 Description: Drivetrain Enhancement and Salesforce integration.  Hagerty is an insurance company specializing in classic car insurance. Hagerty want to build up Hagerty Drivers Club (HDC) Platform to support their newly introduced Membership product for maintaining all vehicle and customer data. Our team involved in the entire development lifecycle for the services and integration between HDC Platform and their legacy source systems and support for their production applications and solution with new enhancement features.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked on Hagerty Insurance Project using C#, Asp.Net Web forms, Win forms, Web application, SQL server, WCF Services using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, .NET Framework with advanced functionality.  • Design and development of back-end WCF service and REST service.  • Support for production bugs and legacy application maintenance and responsible for debugging, testing and fixing the issues occurred in the testing process.  • Coordinate and written unit tests using NUnit and integration tests and involved in code reviews.  • Experienced in web page design with a consistent look using master page.  • Created multiple & nested views, used AngularJS Routing, Controllers, Services and Directives to implement key functionalities.  • Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory and Implemented table and chart for metadata using AngularJS tables.  • Involved in normalization of the database and created queries to interact with the database.  • Worked on Collaboration in writing new modules using ASP.NET MVC, HTML 5, XML, CSS 3, jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Developed RESTful/SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third party system and the customer side system and involved in connecting .Net technology by using Mule ESB successfully.  • Created scripts to create new tables, views, queries, Stored Procedures, table Partitioning and indexes on the tables for faster retrieval of data for new enhancement in the application using TOAD in ORACLE PL/SQL.  • Worked on stored procedures, Data Scripts and SQL queries (DDL, DML), and Views for retrieving the User details and the events information from the SQL server.  • Created and modified data models using Entity Framework and used LINQ to query with the database objects and other objects of LINQ.  • Involved in client interaction with third party vendors to understand problems/needs and providing solutions to the critical issues.  Environment: C#.Net, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, MVC, Entity Framework, LINQ, WCF, MS SQL 2014, Oracle 10g, VisualStudio 2015, Perforce, JIRA, Confluence, LINQPad, Web services, JavaScript, AngularJS, TFS, WCF Storm, Postman, TeamCity Software Developer TruPro LLC - Trumbull, CT April 2015 to December 2016 Description: E-mail Marketing Campaign  TruPro is a Connecticut based full-service digital marketing agency and they provide a full suite of customized monthly service plans to grow the audience and maintain all aspects of online marketing and web presence.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Coded the front-end of websites and web applications using C#, Asp.Net Web/Win forms and implemented responsive design for different resolutions, performed tests and hacks for cross-browser compatibility and improved performance with the latest trend techniques.  • Designed user interface using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript for developing client-side web applications and good experience in creating Single Page Application (SPA) web templates.  • Expertise in building service-oriented applications by implementing in SOA architecture through WCF.  • Worked on binding classes, endpoint communication and creating a programmatically-configured managed application that hosts using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) services.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, getting sign-off from the business and prepare system requirements specification for the solution.  • Worked on Views for retrieving the User details and the events information from the SQL server.  • Created HTML email templates and newsletters for e-mail marketing campaigns.  • Experienced in web page design with a consistent look using master page and used cookies to remember the user login information and created database objects such as Stored Procedures, Views, using Oracle PLSQL.  • Created common site template and provided consistent look using layout page.  • Involved in designing, updating the application as required. Performed check for coding standards and code review of the application code.  • Build customized web pages using responsive design to the highest specifications.  • Attending Requirements Walkthrough meeting and planning with client on functional requirements for the new feature or updates in existing feature.  Environment: C#, ASP.Net, ADO.NET, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, SQL Server 2014, MVC, Web Services, Visual Studio 2012, XML, HTML, XSLT, JavaScript, IIS 6.0, NUNIT, TFS, WCF Software Engineer Idexcel Inc - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2012 to July 2014 Description: Telecom Expense Management  Quickcomm is the largest provider of TEM software solutions worldwide. It automatically analyzes every single line item, from mobile and cellular voice services to tie lines, paging services and data. TEM software is a reporting platform that shows how telecoms spend breaks down, throughout corporate structure to end user level.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed successful ETL of telecom Bill files and actively involved in coordinating with the business analysts and testing team on the progress of the project.  • Developed RESTFUL/WCF Web services, APIs, and other back end components.  • Developed SOA using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) for the client request and response.  • Involved in coding of Business Service and Server-side components and worked efficiently in resolving issues and delivered web applications to ensure data integrity, security, compatibility and feasibility.  • Involved in creating Classes, Interfaces and developed Web services using C#.  • Developed the applications following Service Oriented Architecture and OOPS concepts  • Responsible for developing the front-end UI using HTML/CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Used LINQ & Entity Framework to exchange data between web applications and database objects.  • Involved in database designing for new enhancements and in writing the new stored procedures and modifying the existing stored procedures in SQL Server.  • Configured web.config file based on the requirements of web application.  • Worked on SQL joins, sub queries, tracing and performance tuning for better running of queries.  Environment: C#, ASP.Net, ADO.NET, MVC, Net Framework 4.5, Win Forms, JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS, Web services, Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2008, LINQ, TFS, JIRA, Oracle9i, BMCRemedy Software Engineer Idexcel Inc - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2011 to September 2012 Description: EA-Link System  The application allows the subscribers to register & do the tax calculation for a financial year. The subscriber can be either a tax agent or an individual. The subscriber can calculate & file tax based on Assets & other financial parameters. The subscriber can do tax planning before final tax submission to government. The application is interfaced with e-filing.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the web pages using C#, ASP.Net.  • Involved in implementing the logic using C# and oops concepts.  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Dataset, and Data Adapter for data communication between the web application and databases.  • Responsible for writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and DB Triggers using SQL Server 2008.  • Involved in web page design with a consistent look using master page.  • Involved in normalization of the database and created queries to interact with the database.  • Retrieved data using LINQ to SQL and LINQ to Objects with ASP.NET.  • Analyze and fix defects found by QA, product owners and work closely with Quality Assurance Team to close out all open defects.  • Implementation of Unit Test using NUnit to detect and solve issues related with the application.  Environment: C#, ASP.NET 3.5, ADO.NET, VS 2010, Java Script, JQuery , AJAX, HTML, CSS, TortoiseSVN, SQL Server 2008 Education Master's Skills Ado, Ado.net, Ado.net entity framework, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Ajax, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Web services, .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, Git, Html, Bootstrap