Associate Application Developer Associate Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Associate Application Developer - Aetna South Portland, ME • 6+ years of IT experience which includes Analysis, Design and Development of Web and BPM applications using Pega and Microsoft technologies  • Proficient in Pega Implementation cycle. The Implementation cycle includes modeling of business process, development, testing, and deployment.  • PEGA Certified PRPC System Architect (CSA 7.2)  • PEGA Certified PRPC Senior System Architect (CSSA 7.2)  • Worked on large BPM processes using agile methodology.  • Worked on Agile methodology and being part of HLD to LLD, Analysis of sprint stories, attended daily scrum calls, dividing Stories & story points to tasks, responsible for module deliverables & interacting with different teams etc.  • Interacted with various clients of multiple business domains, by being a part of design discussions.  • Experienced in developing Process Flows and Rule based Business Process Management applications on Pega Rules Process Commander (PRPC).  • Experience in designing/developing applications in PRPC v6.2 & v7.2.  • Strong hands on experience on Object Oriented Programming concepts.  • Experienced in developing Work Flow and Rule based Business Process Management using tools like Pega Rules Process Commander (PRPC).  • Proficient in developing Business Requirements Document, Process Model, Workflow, Functional Specification Document, Developing Use Cases, Test Plan Document and Functional Test Cases  • Extensive knowledge in Design, Development, Migration and Deployment of PRPC applications.  • Excellent PRPC skills in implementing Data Model, Class Structure, Access Groups, Complex Process Flows, Activities, Activity Step Methods and User Interface (UI), Integrating PRPC with Third party systems, Scheduling Agents and Listeners and very good debugging skills.  • Experience in implementation of various PRPC components like Decision Tables, Decision Maps, Declarative Expressions, and Indexes etc.  • Experience in building custom reports using Report definitions.  • Expertise in debugging using Clipboard, Tracer, Pega Log files.  • Expertise on Integration Services like SOAP, REST, SQL using PRPC.  • Hands-on technical governance on all aspects of production support.  • Having good experience with SQL commands. Proficient in using database servers like Oracle, MS SQL Server.  • Skilled in RDB-methods and OBJ-methods. Work Experience Associate Application Developer Aetna January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Designing, Developing business requirements in PRPC.  • Designed and implemented the Class structure/hierarchy.  • Involved in designing, building and validating User Interfaces.  • Created various flow-actions for successful exceptions management.  • Developed and implemented activities involving number of steps and methods for calling standard activates that come with the framework and the PRPC.  • Implemented field validations using declarative expressions and declare constraints for known issues in the framework.  • Used clipboard and tracer tools to navigate through flows along with the work objects and trace the results.  • Worked on Database mapping, acquiring remote database connection, and other database related operations.  • Designed and implemented user interfaces using Sections, Harness and HTML stream rules.  • Support production issues for functionality implemented in Pega.  • Worked on Report definitions and Data pages.  • Designed Flows using Case Types.  • Implementation of PRPC components like Decision tables, Decision Maps, Declarative Expressions, Constraints and Indexes etc.  • Implemented the Agile methodology in design and the rule development phases using the Pega Rules Process Commander  • Worked on integration rules like Rule-Connect-SQL, Rule-Connect-SOAP to perform query operations on the external databases and consuming external web services.    • Worked with Clipboard and Tracer tools extensively to trace hard to find defects.  • Prepared Role Based Access group and Control document for the PEGA Workflow team.  • Implemented activities with business logic with different out of box methods to meet the requirements.    Environment: Pega 7.2 and Oracle 10g Associate Application Developer TD Bank February 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Created Operators, Workgroups, Workbaskets, Data tables, skills.  • Worked with Product owners in writing the User stories and getting the right format of Design.  • Designed and developed Data Model, Class structure, Access Group, Process flows, Activities and UI properties.  • Designed and Developed Work flows and Rule sets as well as integrated the application with external systems.  • Involved in preparing project design documentation and requirement documents.  • Created Step methods, When Rules and Decision Rules for implementing business logic.  • Created User Interfaces like section, harness and flow action and portal representation.  • Worked on implementation and integration of multiple external systems with REST connectors.  • Worked on Debugging Tools Tracer, Clipboard, PAL and Rule Inspector.  • Worked on SMA, SLA and User Interface Rules.  • Involved in Creation of validation rules like property validation, page validations  • Used various methods in activities depending on the business rules in the project.  • Worked to resolve the severity issues of end users, End to end Integration testing of the application.  • Implemented Agile/Scrum Methodology and participated in development & conversion of business requirements into PMF stories.  • Designed and developed SLA's according to the business requirements  • Worked on Troubleshooting and communicated with PEGA Support team to resolve technical issues, which require hot fix from PEGA systems.  • Updated Rules, Data Instances, Defects and Hot Fixes in Rule-Tracking sheet.  • Worked in moving the code to the higher environments and helped in documenting the Process involved in doing so.    Environment: Pega v7.1 and Sql Server Application Developer Aetna July 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the Business Analyst and Users to gain understanding of the requirements  • Build the requirement and design documents.  • Co-ordinated with the team members and make sure that the work is delivered by the deadline and ensure the quality of the work.  • Created Process Flows, Activities, Decision Rules and UI Rules.  • Utilized Harness, Sections, Layouts, Flows, Flow Actions, When rules and activities.  • Involved in updating and using different Rulesets Versions as required by the Organization.  • Involved in using Decision tables, Decision Trees and Decision Maps.  • Optimized several major Flows; created sub flows to reduce number of connectors and shapes  • Used Clipboard and Tracer tools to navigate through flows along with the work objects and traced the results.  • Created high-level Class structure, Workflows, Activities and core business logic.  • Developed Rules for Validation and Integration rules pertained to Rule-Connect- and Rule-Service.  • Analyzed and debug the defects.  • Performed Unit testing and Regression testing.    Environment: Pega 7.1 and Sql Server Verities Group Inc April 2016 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively in system analysis, architectural design, build development, execution, and testing and deployment phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Created the business process flows and flow actions in PRPC as per the specifications delivered by the BA.  • Implementation of Decision tables, Decision Map-Values and Declarative expressions to meet the business requirement.  • Defining Harness and section rules as a part of UI implementation.  • Created properties and data models for the classes  • Created Report Definitions for reporting purposes.  • Developed SLA rules, correspondence rules and circumstancing rules.  • Worked on Data Transforms, Report Definitions, and data pages.  • Develop, support and maintain SOAP based web services  • Worked on client side and server-side validations.  • Performed data transform operations.  • Debugged the application using clipboard, tracer, DB tracer, PAL, Live UI.  • Checking the Log file errors in a routine procedure during the unit testing    Environment: Pega 7.1 and Sql Server Software Engineer FORD Motor Company Automobile June 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Analyze the requirements.  • Discuss business solutions with Ford Motor Company Business Analysts, resolve existing problems and improve the application stability.  • Coordinate with business clients, support the application and implement the process as per specifications provided.  • Requirements gathering and analysis, time estimates, preparing design documentation, design reviews, development, testing and deployment of application enhancements, project planning.  • Answering the functional queries, driving the process initiatives and metric collection and analysis.  • Guiding the Team members.  • Implemented the design approach for PEGA PRPC applications by using PEGA Guardrails.  • Creating the Flows.  • Creating Activities, Connectors by using standard methods of PRPC.  • Creating User interface such as Harness, Sections, Flow actions  • Followed PRPC Guardrails while building rules.  • Implemented business rules using Decision tree, Decision Table and When rules.  • Used Declarative rules.  • Involved in Testing as well as Technical Design Documentation.  • Interacting with various teams, and giving demo to Client.  • Reviewing of work products and deploying the application in the test environment and initiate the process of user acceptance testing. It includes fixing of bugs and fixing technical errors that may come up during this phase.  • Regular interaction with the Ford Business owners, Managers, Database administrators, Network Administrators, Application Users - all belonging to different departments and divisions of Capitol Indemnity Corporation to ensure the smooth running of the applications.  • Coordinated of all the aspects of the Project right from Execution to Delivery which includes planning, control, implementation of plans, coordinating, progress and issues, managing the team and ensuring the quality of the deliverables.  • Maintaining PEGA applications in all the Servers.    Environment: PEGA PRPC 6.2 and Sql Server Associate Software Engineer Sahara health Insurance May 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • participated in development & conversion of business requirements into Jira stories and analyzed that with team to make sure development is according to business need  • Design & Development of the Business Process Management (BPM) components which includes PRPC Flows.  • Involved in design and development of Data Model, Complex Process flows, Activities, Functions and User Interface (UI) Rules.  • Created Activities and steps for implementing Core Business Logic.  • Design and development of Report Rules,Technical Rules  • Implementation of Decision tables, Decision Maps and Declarative expressions  • Designed custom User and Manager Portals  • Created rules for Validation, Integration rules like Rule-Connect-SQL using methods like RDB save, RDB Open, RDB list and SLA rules to assignments & work objects for time-constrained processing of assignments and work objects  • Worked with DBA on improving the response times of the various queries, and the overall performance of the system  • Used Tracer, Clipboard, Performance Tool, System Management application, and the log files for debugging  • Involved in Bug fixes and Unit testing    Environment: Pega 6.1 and Oracle    Declaration:  I hereby declare that the details furnished about me are true to the best of my knowledge and genuine. I assure of my loyalty toward the organization and will work to the at most satisfaction of my superiors.    Date:  Place: SRINIVAS G Education Master's Skills Ms sql server. (2 years), Oracle (3 years), Pega. (6 years), Sql (6 years), Sql server (2 years), XML, HTML, Javascript