Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Athens, AL • Exceptional software developer offering a strong foundation in software development and programming principles across multiple platforms.  • Experienced in object-oriented programming; developing, testing, and debugging code; as well as designing graphical user interfaces.  • Ability to quickly learn and master new technologies; successful working in both team, and self-directed settings.  • Strong written and verbal communication skills.  • DoD Secret Clearance.  • Willing to relocate/travel.  • CompTIA Security+ CE Certified Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer DESE Research - Huntsville, AL June 2017 to Present • Develop, test, and debug code; design graphical user interfaces; and maintain multiple projects simultaneously.  • Review designs, code, documentation, and test results for other developers in the team.  • Write SQL queries and scripts to manipulate large segments of data within databases.  • Debug and maintain products developed with highly varying development styles.  • Perform product testing in various levels, including functional, integration, system, regression, and user acceptance. Infantry Rifleman United States Marine Corps June 2012 to Present Operated and maintained communications and computer equipment  ? Performed as a fire team member during situational training exercises and all infantry dismounted battle drills  ? Expert in tactical and technical guidance  ? Surveyed and analyzed terrain to determine optimum equipment placement and use.  • Provide technical support for the United States Border Patrol assisting in the apprehension of thousands of illegal immigrants, narcotics and weaponry, along with preventing attempts of illegally crossing the United States Border.  • Program, deploy, monitor, and maintain hundreds of ground sensors spread across the southern Texas border.  • Create and maintain helpful reporting software to allow fellow Marines with low level computer experience report activity to staff and officers efficiently.  • Create and maintain multiple Excel macros and formulae to assist in presenting statistic information to staff and officers. Senior Software Developer TEKsystems - Huntsville, AL December 2016 to June 2017 • Develop, test, and debug code; design graphical user interfaces; and maintain multiple projects simultaneously.  • Create product backlog items upon approval from the project owner, break backlog items into tasks, and submit for approval from team lead.  • Review designs, code, documentation, and test results for other developers in the team.  • Write SQL queries and scripts to manipulate large segments of data within databases.  • Upgrade products to support multiple versions of SharePoint (2007, 2010, and 2013).  • Re-create old applications and websites for hosting on SharePoint 2013.  • Debug and maintain products developed in various languages with highly varying development styles.  • Pair program with different developers frequently.  • Perform product testing in various levels, including functional, integration, system, regression, and user acceptance. Software Developer WinTec Arrowmaker, Inc. - Shalimar, FL April 2016 to December 2016 • Develop, test, and debug code; design graphical user interfaces; and maintain multiple projects simultaneously.  • Create product backlog items upon approval from the project owner, break backlog items into tasks, and submit for approval from team lead.  • Review designs, code, documentation, and test results for other developers in the team.  • Write SQL queries and scripts to manipulate large segments of data within databases.  • Upgrade products to support multiple versions of SharePoint (2007, 2010, and 2013).  • Debug and maintain products developed in various languages with highly varying development styles.  • Pair program with different developers frequently.  • Perform product testing in various levels, including functional, integration, system, regression, and user acceptance. General Laborer Express Employment Professionals May 2014 to December 2015 Provided extra help when needed for multiple job types included but not limited to: moving services, mold removal, industrial laundry cleaning, event setups, landscaping and filing paperwork. Education Bachelors in Computer Information Systems in Software Programming DeVry University May 2017 to January 2020 Skills JavaScript (1 year), C++ Programming (1 year), C# Programming (7 years), Game Development (5 years), Game Design (2 years), Sharepoint (Less than 1 year), Excel (4 years), Visual Studio (7 years), SQL (2 years), Microsoft Access (1 year), Unity 3D (2 years), XNA Framework (3 years), CSS Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: E3 June 2012 to Present Currently serving as a reservist at a ground sensor unit as a programmer.    • Provide technical support for the United States Border Patrol assisting in the apprehension of thousands of illegal immigrants, narcotics and weaponry, along with preventing attempts of illegally crossing the United States Border.  • Program, deploy, monitor, and maintain hundreds of ground sensors spread across the southern Texas border.  • Create and maintain helpful reporting software to allow fellow Marines with low level computer experience report activity to staff and officers efficiently.  • Create and maintain multiple Excel macros and formulae to assist in presenting statistic information to staff and officers. Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ CE December 2016 Additional Information Willing to relocate to anywhere in the United States.    ? SECRET DoD security clearance  ? Excellent ability to work team environments  ? Effective verbal and written communications in a team environment  ? Knowledge of gaming principles for various platforms  ? Creative imagination  ? Passion for making and playing computer games  ? Experienced problem solving skills using gaming logic and design  ? Great ability to adapt and learn other programming and coding languages  ? Time management    COMPUTER SKILLS  SYSTEMS/PLATFORMS: Windows XP/7/8; Windows Phone 8; Xbox 360 Dashboard; PS2 Linux (Playstation 2); iOS  SOFTWARE: Microsoft Office 2007/2010 Microsoft Excel  GAME ENGINES: Unreal Engine 4; Unity Pro 4; CryEngine; SunBurn Game Engine 2.1  TOOLS: Visual Studio 2010/2013 Ultimate; Dreamweaver CC  FRAMEWORK: XNA; SunBurn  DEBUG AND DISASSEMBLY SOFTWARE: Visual Studio Debugger  EFFECTS: Knowledge of Shaders; Light Systems; Particle Systems; Physics Engines  OTHER: Knowledge of multiple algorithms and techniques for AI development.