UI Developer/ React Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ React <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer/ React Developer - Waters Corporation Boston, MA • Over 8+ years of experience as a Front end web developer in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML/HTML5, XML, DHTML CSS/CSS3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, React Js, Redux , ES6, Web pack, Flex, JQuery, JSON, Node.js, Ajax, JQUERY Bootstrap.  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  • Extensive knowledge in developing single-page applications (SPAs).  • Working knowledge of Web protocols and standards (HTTP HTML5/XHTML/XHTML-MP, CSS3, Web Forms, XML, XML parsers)  • Created User Interfaces for Mobile/Tablet/Desktop using HTML5 & CSS3  • Good experience on customizing CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and Foundation using CSS pre-processors LESS or SASS and Compass.  • Expertise in implementing easy to use Bootstrap plugins for building carousel, accordion, modal windows etc.  • Expertise in analyzing the Document Object Model (DOM) Layout, DOM Functions, and Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  • Expertise in React Js framework to develop the SPA.  • Expertise in React Js and working with React Flux architecture.  • Expertise in creating Custom Reusable React Components Library  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites  • Experience in using React Js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Good Experience in React Js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Expertise in React Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • Expertise in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of Future Pages.  • Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  • Expertise in using Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Experienced in working with Node.js and NPM modules like http-server, Marathon, inquirer, path, mongo DB, Micro Services, Request, Elastic Search, express, luck, spark and templating engines.  • Experience in Node environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Gulp, and Groovy Bower.  • Knowledge of utilizing cloud technologies including Amazon Web Services (AWS),  • Expertise in RESTful, SOAP web services to integrate between Application to Application  • Experience with front-end development with back-end system integration.  • Proficient in using Unit.js testing framework along with Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Mocha test runners  • Expertise in using bug tracking tools like JIRA.  • Experience in Version Control tools like GIT, SVN for Source Code version management.  • Experience in Jenkins.  • Expertise in using IDE tools such as Notepad ++, Web Matrix, Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor, IntelliJ IDEA, and Web Storm  • Ability to work effectively while working as a team member as well as individually.  • Excellent communication and Inter-Personal Skills, well organized, goal oriented. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer/ React Developer Waters Corporation - Boston, MA August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using HTML5, HTML, CSS and Client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript libraries to create slider and page-turning animations on calendar widgets.  • Used React Js virtual DOM instead of regular DOM for improved efficiency and performance.  • Used React JS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework using React JS.  • Used the feature of React JS of running the server and rendering the virtual DOM, returning to the browser as a regular page.  • Involved in trans piling, bundling and developing React components for the partner homepages using React.js.  • Migrated the code to React.js-with Redux.  • Used React flux to polish the data and for single directional flow.  • Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  • Created Reusable component and wired them installing great router.  • Used Redux Async actions to make the app fully asynchronous.  • Created flux stores to migrate an existing flux app to redux.  • Participated with SQA team in bug thrashing sessions to discuss and resolve bugs that were reported in JIRA.  • Designed web pages and used applications that meet business and user goals through a positive user experience.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table less design following W3C standards.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, React.js/Redux, Java script, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, JSON, GIT, REST APIs, Firebug. UI Developer/React Developer AAFES - Dallas, TX February 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React Js and Ajax.  • Developed React Js pages, Web services calls and AJAX calls for the application.  • Used React Js in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Worked on Front end by using JavaScript.  • Developed user interface by using the React Js, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented client side Interface using React Js.  • Worked with React Js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Build React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Responsible for developing a front-end application using React Js and FLUX architecture for internal teams productivity use.  • Experienced in React Js and working with React Flux architecture for developing Single Page Applications SPAs.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React Js.  • Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3.  • Used Firebug and Chrome Developer Tools for debugging and for element styling.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the Mongo DB for the application on devices.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Made the application responsive using Bootstrap and CSS Media Queries.  • Involved in implementing Queries to the backend MongoDB database using Http service to fetch JSON contract.  • Experienced in implementing CRUD database operation on such as MongoDB.  • Used Jasmine and Karma as end to end testing tools for debugging and software quality insurance.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, React Js , Flux, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, REST APIs, Firebug, Git, MongoDB, Jasmine, Karma, Media Queries, Sublime. UI Developer Premera Blue Cross - Mountlake Terrace, WA December 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the front end using HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin padding, and table.  • Experience In designing UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4 and Adobe Illustrator CS3.  • Pseudo elements and CSS3 Border, CSS3 Background, CSS3 Transitions.  • Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3.  • Extensively used HTML5 for audio and video playback. Worked on the MVP architecture for the GWT.  • Developed user interface by using the React.js, Redux for Single page application (SPA) development.  • Involved in responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Involved in using React.js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Experience in Building applications using React.js which allowed us to render pages on both the client and server using the same codebase.  • Used React.js in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Experience in DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with React States and Events.  • Have worked with React Js for reusable components  • Developed powerful visualization components and DOM manipulation using React JS  • Experience working with Redux for maintaining the consistency and for running the application in different environments (client, server, and native) which was also easy to test  • Client Side code were written in React JS/Redux and Server Side Code were developed using MVC4  • Employed Redux to manage application state.  • Experience working on Redux Uni-directional data-flow achieving the predictable application behavior.  • Worked on Unit test cases and performed unit testing.  • Extensively used Trello for Project & Task Management  • Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  • Used web based GIT repository manager with issue tracking features.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Worked closely with Quality Analysts to fix bugs during Quality Assurance and User Acceptance Testing.  • Provided estimates, daily & weekly status report to the client on progress of the tasks.  • Used Team Foundation Server for source control.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React js , Redux , Node JS, Express JS, JQuery, Handlebars, RWD, Twitter Bootstrap, Eclipse, JSP, Adobe Photoshop , Jira , MS Office, Git, JIRA UI Developer Genzeon October 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated in Multi-tire application development environment.  • Communicated with Business Analyst System to know the technical requirements for the project.  • Used HTML, CSS, and Java Script to Design Front End Screens.  • Engaged in checking the website functionality with JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  • Created CSS styles to keep up the consistency of all screens all through the application and situating of screen objects.  • Examining the web page on cross- browser compatibility to fix the bugs pertaining to different browsers.  • Used to update templates and create additional functionalities by using jQuery.  • Worked with the Object Oriented Programming concepts such as inheritance etc.  • Used different JavaScript's and JS libraries, AJAX for validation and for different interactive features.  • Created different modules such as Admin, User, and Job Folders  • Used jQuery to communicate CSS and HTML script with JavaScript functions to gain dynamism functionality to the web pages.  • Participated in development of JSP.  • Used JUNIT test cases for developing  • Involved in developing PL/SQL code for handling data  • Responsible for all client side validations and implementing business logic based on user selection using JQuery and JQuery UI.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Extensive use of spring (IOC, MVC), Struts.  • Developing and maintenance of Software applications using SPRING, HIBERNATE, JAVA/J2EE.  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, and IE developer toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Used waterfall model of software development.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSP, Eclipse, XML, JSON, SVN, PL/SQL, Windows. Software Engineer Ramboll India Pvt August 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed UI for Web platform using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON.  • Created several JSP pages as common library that included in the other pages as standard modules like portlets.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins, AJAX, JavaScript.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery, JavaScript.  • Worked extensively with the backend team to integrate the HTML code into JSPs.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Restful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Co-ordinate with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.  • Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application. Tested/De-bugged web browser using Firebug.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Java, JSP, SERVLETS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Oracle, TOMCAT server, RESTful Services, Eclipse. Education Bachelor's