Developer - IT Analyst <span class="hl">Developer</span> - IT Analyst Auburn Hills, MI • Ambitious Data Analyst with 4 years of IT work experience. Experience in reporting, data visualization, data processing, modeling and forecasting to deliver insights and implement action-oriented solutions to complex business problems.  • Experience in the software industry and having a strong knowledge in R and Python programming along with strong organizational skills seeks a position to help a company make data driven decisions.  • Experience in data management including gathering, preparation, mining, analysis, reporting, presentation, information gathering end user reporting.  • Extensive experience in data analysis, data manipulation, database statistics, metrics, documentation and developing and deploying reports from databases.  • Strong experience in using Excel and MS Access to dump the data and analyze based on business needs.  • Have knowledge in VB programming using Visual Studio.  • Created organized, customized analysis and visualized projects and dashboards to present to Senior Level.  • Extensive experience in Tableau Desktop, Tableau Server and Tableau Reader in various versions of Tableau.  • Performed in depth research and analysis in data and prepared weekly, monthly, quarterly reports by using SQL, MS Excel, UNIX.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in producing tables, reports, graphs and listings using various procedures and handling large databases to perform complex data manipulations.  • Create functional & technical documentation related to visualization solutions  • Successfully interpreted data to draw conclusions for managerial action and strategy.  • Excellent Knowledge in Data Analysis, Data Validation, Data Cleansing, Data Verification and identifying data mismatch and Missing Values.  • Used Advanced Microsoft Excel to create pivot tables, used VLOOKUP and other Excel functions.  • Proficient in R Programming Language, Data extraction, Data cleaning, Data Loading, Data Transformation, Predictive Modeling and Data visualization using R and Tableau.  • Worked with Business Analyst for requirements gathering, business analysis and project coordination.  • Designing and developing the Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) program to move data from source to target, mapping source data attributes to target data attributes.  • Strong Object-Oriented Development background using Java/J2EE.  • Proficiency in working with databases like Oracle and MySQL.  • Ample knowledge of Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) & Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD).  • Hands on experience in installing, configuring, and using Hadoop components like Hadoop Map Reduce, HDFS, Hive, Sqoop, and Hue. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Developer - IT Analyst Ford Motor Company - Dearborn, MI May 2018 to Present Description  GVS Graphical Vehicle Scheduling mainly deals with Order Processing of Vehicle data.It mainly deals with the order statuses, Order Download, Batch Download and Administration of all related management.Mainly GVS application is deploying into Detroit Chassis Plant.This application mainly deals with processing of orders and NGAVS Vehicle Scheduling.    Responsibilities  • Worked in Agile environment with daily status calls.  • Understanding and analysing the application is quiet challenging.  • Application is using Spring Boot and Hibernate.  • Database administration is mainly by using H2 Console.  • Used Rally for maintaining the status of our user stories.  • Worked in Continuous Integration and Continuous Development environment.  • Power Up Sessions are a major plus for getting more knowledge and to be involved more in the team. Graduate Research Assistant - Data Specialist Oakland University April 2018 to September 2018 Research 1  • Analysed the huge Smartphone dataset for Cybersecurity Research.  • Created Patterns for my analysis and used Tableau for data visualization.  • By going through the number of articles, analysed which factors are helpful to detect the malicious behaviour.  • Assisted Professor in research on factors affecting success of participants in Cybersecurity data.    Research 2  • Analysed related survey questions to publish one article based on the proposed theory model is satisfying or not.  • Used IBM SPSS to do the Factory analysis and used Microsoft Excel to create pivot tables, VLOOKUP and other Excel functions.  • Performed extensive data transformation and ensured data integrity to get the desired data format.  • Successfully interpreted Survey Questions data to draw conclusions for managerial action and strategy. Developer - Data Analyst Reebok , Infosys Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2012 to September 2013 Description  Reebok is a global athletic footwear and apparel company, operating as a subsidiary of German sports giant Adidas. Reebok produces and distributes fitness, running and CrossFit sportswear including clothing and footwear. As Adidas has acquired Reebok, the objective is to customize Adidas code base to work for reebok too.    Responsibilities  • Attended Business workshops and gathered requirements from Business and IT customers and Created detailed impact analysis report.  • Analyse each problem to design the work-flow which supports the solution to the problem.  • Requirement analysis, Design proposal for templates which decides the page layout and cartridges to display the content on the page layout.  • Involved in High Level and detailed design for customizing Adidas code to include Reebok.  • Worked as technical developer on Reebok application to migrate existing reebok application to work in the same way to adidas platform too by using Endeca search engine.  • Enhanced features of Reebok applications customer rating, carousel banner, type ahead changes which includes product image and details of the product.  • Worked on Dimension Adapters, Dimension Servers, Record Adapters, Record Manipulators, Record Assemblers, Record Caches, Indexer Adapters, Update Adapters, Property Mappers of Endeca developer studio.  • Implementing the rendering JSPs which displays the cartridges content.  • Apache subversion software versioning and revision control system Software is used to maintain current and historical versions of files such as source code, web pages, and documentation.    • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Unit and integration testing, performance and quality checks etc. are done for the Guided Navigation, keyword search etc.  • Enhance and maintain existing system keeping in mind zero outage for end users. Software Developer Reebok , Infosys Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2011 to June 2012 Description  Wal-Mart is a US based leading multinational retail corporation headquartered in Bentonville, Arkansas. This project was mainly focused on enhancing the Item Search functionality for _www.walmart.com. This project was using Endeca as the backend search engine.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for interaction with client and collect the requirements for the project  • Responsible for analysing the defects/bugs and fixing the same.  • Enhanced Item Search functionality for Walmart website.  • Involved in the development and optimization of browse and search pages.  • Used Endeca as the backend search engine and Spring framework with JSP's in the front end.  • Implemented the dashboard which displays the list of servers with the corresponding status like server is up/down.  • Implantation which shows the thanks giving deals on the Product Listing Page (PLP) and the Product Detail Page (PDP)  • Developed spring-based controllers, services, DAO code, and application context configuration files for web application. Software Engineer Wipro Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2010 to May 2011 Description  The Worldwide Finished Goods Inventory System (WWFGINV) is the repository for all Finished Goods inventory information and is used by Seagate for Planning and fulfillment of Seagate orders in the ERP system.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for the technical integrity of application and being an active developer and contributor to the team's delivery.  • Demoing the application functionality developed during the different phases of development  • Configure the development environment using Eclipse, spring, Web logic application server.  • I was involved in development of various modules including Customer Registration, User Profile Management, and login screens using Servlets and Jsp Pages and implemented Client-Side Validations through Java Script.  • Worked with functional team experts to implement their functional knowledge into working Procedures.  • One the requirements are implemented; the changes will be moved from development to Staging and finally to the Production.  • Used CoreFTP and Harvest for version control and updating the changes from development to production throughout the application.  • Involved in Web Application Deployment, Unit Testing, reviewing the code and defect fixing  • Conducted code reviews against coding standards and made sure the best practices are maintained in development process. Education Master's in Information Technology and Management in Information Technology and Management Oakland University 2017 to 2019 Bachelors JNTU 2004 to 2008 Skills Data analysis (1 year), Database (4 years), Database design (3 years), Microsoft access (3 years), Ms access (3 years), Microsoft sql server (4 years), Sql server (4 years), Mysql (4 years), Oracle (4 years), Oracle 10g (3 years), Sql (4 years), Sql queries (4 years), Impala, Sqoop (Less than 1 year), Data management (1 year), Data visualization (1 year), Etl (1 year), Hadoop (Less than 1 year), Map reduce (Less than 1 year), Power bi, MS Office, access, Excel, Business Intelligence Additional Information Technical Skills  Analytical Tools  Tableau, Excel (Solver, Goal Seek, Data Tables, Data Analysis, Toolpak, VBA), Big Data, Hadoop, Map Reduce, HIVE, Impala, Google Analytics, A/B Testing, Power BI, JMP, IBM SPSS.    Programming Languages R, Python, Java/J2EE.  Database Oracle 10g, SQL Server, MySQL, SQL Server (SSIS, SSAS, SSRS), MS Access  Other Tools and Technologies. Visual Studio, MS Project, ERDPlus, SVN, Git Hub, JIRA, CoreFTP.  Operating Systems Linux, Windows  Domain Experience Development Experience in Retail and Manufacturing Domains    Masters Course Projects    Advanced Database and Big Data Management  • Used Adventure Works Database to implement a concept of Slowly Changing Dimensions in Cloudera Hadoop.  • Most Critical ETL Task(SCD) - Implemented all the 4 types of SCD's.  • Used Sqoop and developed HQL Queries using Hive and Created Data Visualization graphs using Hue.    DataWareHousing Project  • Worked on a case study, in which I had to design a database from scratch that would implement details of a Big Teeth Reality TV Show.  • Designed the ER diagrams to come up with an efficient database design to store the various details.  • Generated reports for applicant's background check, reports to group the contestants, reports about various episodes, to make events for weekly episodes, about actions of events, reports about voting from all regions for all the contestants.  • Used Microsoft Access as my database for writing the queries and ErdPlus for designing the ER Diagrams.    St Joseph Mercy Oakland - Nursing Hourly Dashboard  • Created ERD for mapping the tables.  • Used SQL Server for creating and populating the data into tables.  • Observed the impactness of the Nursing Hourly Dashboard before and after the implementation on Length of the Stay and Mortality rate.  • Build Hypothesis and used correlation and regression techniques in R to prove them.    Business Analytics  • Data consists of trips, stations and weather data from the Capitol Hill area stations which included the demographics, from stations and to stations info, location, weather analysis for about 3 years data.  • Created Dashboards by using different sheets and created a final story by referencing the dashboards.  • Connected Tableau to Microsoft SQL Server to get the required data directly by writing the related SQL queries.