Lead RPA Developer Lead RPA <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead RPA Developer - Capital One Texas, VT • Around 9 years of experience in IT industry in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Having 6 years of experience in Robotic Process Automation Technologies - Blue Prism, UiPath and Automation Anywhere.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Applications Design, Development, Integration, Maintenance, Testing and Debugging of various Web, Windows and text applications. t.  • Designed and configured the Blue Prism infrastructure for development, test and live environments, which comprises Interactive clients, Resource PCs, Application servers and Database servers.  • Good hands on experience on UiPath.  • Well versed with UiPath Studio, UiPath Robots and UiPath Orchestrator.  • Created POC's using Blue Prism and UiPath using tool comparison.  • Designed and documenting automated process solutions in accordance with designed principles and conventions.  • Working on Queue Configurations, Monitoring, Internal Automation Anywhere Work Queue Actions, Exception handling, efficient use of stages, blocks, data types, session and environmental variables for processing of Business Process diagrams and Process flow charts using RPA tools.  • Worked with mainframe, windows, web application and surface automation. End-to-end process automation using Blue Prism.  • Strong and precise understanding of Uipath Studio's technological limitations and Clear understanding of Windows/Web/Citrix app integration.  • Experience in developing Internet, Client/Server and Object-oriented applications using Microsoft Technologies on Microsoft Windows platform.  • Experience in Agile product development methodologies and following best scrum practices.  • Experience using tools Portal Sections, Navigation and Security for developing the user experience.  • Experience using tools Form Layouts and State Actions for developing data models and business logic.  • Applying business logic through use of workflows, ability in creating Reports and Query section  • Customizing an application based on gathered facility requirements.  • Ability to quality test & check Automation Anywhere codes built by developers and Experience with VB & VBA macros.  • Experienced in building Automation Anywhere Processes and Business Objects for various Business systems robots. Work Experience Lead RPA Developer Capital One - Plano, TX March 2018 to Present Description: Capital One Financial Corporation is a bank holding company specializing in credit cards, auto loans, banking and savings accounts headquartered in McLean, Virginia. Capital One is ranked 10th on the list of largest banks in the United States by assets. The bank has 755 branches including 30 café style locations and 2, 000 ATMs. It is ranked 98th on the Fortune 500, and 5th largest credit card issuer by purchase volume, after American Express, JP Morgan Chase, Bank of America, and Citigroup.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using Agile Methodology.  • Participated in Business SME work sessions and identified the scope of feasibility for RPA.  • Developed scalable and efficient process automations and reusable components that can be leveraged across different lines of businesses.  • Developed robotic bots using Blue Prism to automate manual, repetitive, rule based and high-volume processes.  • Designing the workflow documents and allocating the objects to automation developers.  • Automating user actions using Browser, PDF, MS Excel, MS Word and other windows applications performed through interactions with thick clients.  • Implemented Templates for Data Backups and File Operations  • Extracted data from Web applications, Windows Applications, PDF, Images and Web pages and exported the output data to Database using database commands.  • Used Run Script command to run VB Scripts by passing parameters at run time and specifying the return value.  • Used Microsoft Office, including the ability to read Excel macros to translate them to RPA solutions and/or integrations.  • Debugging the workflow/tasks, finding the bugs using error handlers and fixing them in minimal time.  • Worked closely with other developers, product managers, DevOps, and product support engineering to deliver new automated processes to replace manual processing.  Environment: Blue Prism, SQL Server, VBA, VBA.NET, Visual Studio, web services, windows, MS Excel RPA Developer SAMSUNG Electronics America - Plano, TX January 2017 to February 2018 Description: Samsung Electronics revolutionized its business through a dedication to making world-class products, providing total customer satisfaction and being a good corporate citizen all under the vision of quality first. During this period, 17 different products from semiconductors to computer monitors, TFT-LCD screens to colour picture tubes climbed into the ranks of the top-five products for global market share in their respective areas and 12 others achieved top market ranking in their areas. Being No.1 also means fulfilling corporate social obligations, whether the cause is social welfare, environmental conservation, cultural events or sports.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing, developing and implementation of Robotic process automation ( RPA) using UI Path.  • Configuring new UI Path processes and objects using core workflow principles that are efficient, well structured, maintainable and easy to understand for further requirements.  • Implemented UI Path User authentication by defining user roles, creating users and setting password policies.  • Designed UI Path process solutions in accordance with standard UI Path design principles and conventions.  • Experienced in using UI Path's Credential Manager for maintaining, securing and retrieving the user credentials.  • Experienced in using UI Path Studio, Orchestrator, Screen, Data & Web scraping techniques.  • Experienced in controlling the BOT's using RPA administrative/Orchestrator.  • Automated text in PDF's using screen scraping to calculate the invoices and store them into a data table using UI Path.  • Worked on Automating Web portal, Excel, PDF, TXT and Email automations.  • • Interacted with different mail services such as POP3, OUTLOOK and IMAP to get the mail messages into folder.  • • Worked with Business Teams to create PDD (Process Definition Document) and developed separate SDD (Solution Design Documents)  • • Developed robotic bots using UiPath to automate process which was done using manual interference.    Environment: UiPath, SQL Server, Web services, .Net Framework, C#.Net, MVC, Visual Studio, GIT. RPA Developer AXA - Syracuse, NY March 2016 to December 2016 Description:  The primary objective is to help propagate automation throughout the insurance services. A centralized management platform manages critical automation activities by optimizing and continuously improving existing processes by identifying existing huge time taking, repetitive, manual processes and provide innovative automated solutions    Responsibilities:    • Creation, development and maintenance of automated MI Reporting of Blue Prism processes in MS Access and Excel, also looking into running this in MS SQL Server using MS Access front-end.  • Analyses the feasibility of existing process suitable for automation.  • Implemented new reporting techniques and facilitated the presentations to the clients.  • Experienced in building Blue Prism Processes and Business Objects for various business systems.  • Worked with mainframe, windows base application and surface automation. End to end process automation using Blue Prism.  • Implemented Blue Prism User authentication by defining user roles, creating users and setting password policies.  • Experience in using Blue Prism's Credential Manager for maintaining, securing and retrieving the user credentials.  • Exposure to Blue Prism's Single Sign-on implementation using Microsoft Active Directory.  • Used Blue Prism MAPIEx adds on library for manipulating mail boxes.  • Experience in staging and deploying the automation solution into test and live environments.  • Efficiently handled monitoring and troubleshooting the Blue Prism environment through Control room.  • Managed a team of developers in an agile environment.  • Experience in managing robot's workloads using Blue Prism Work Queues.  • Participated online meetings to demonstrate the capabilities of RPA for on-going projects and potential clients.  • Worked with the Business Analysts in identifying and defining the requirements.  • Extensively worked on debugging application for fixing bugs and Production support.  • Design and develop new product features in collaboration with stake holders.  • Designed and developed complete database schema, table structure, entity relationship between tables. Create application prototype model and demonstrate to stake holders.  • Created tables, store procedures, user defined functions, triggers, views, SQL jobs in IBM DB2, SQL Server. Develop ASP.Net web pages and other business layer components using C# .Net  • Involved in code review and fine tuning the code for performance related issues.  • Involved in peer code review to check for application performance related issues and fine tune the code for different modules.  • Used other tools like iNavigator, Ultra Edit, Beyond Compare, Jenkins etc.  • Participated in application build and deployment process into different environments like DEV, SIT and UAT.    Environment: Blue Prism 5.0, ASP.Net 3.5, C#, Web Services using WCF, IBM DB2, IBM Clear Case, SQL Server 2008. RPA Developer OptumRx - Somerset, NJ April 2015 to February 2016 Description: RxBuilder application is a web-based tool used for comprehensive formulary management and data is also shared with CMS through RxBuilder's support of Medicare PartD, Healthcare Exchange Formularies. RxBuilder also includes an extensive reporting suite, which provides the ability to QA, compare and produce marketing materials for a Formulary.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze the client requirements and define the Acceptance Criteria based on Requirements Document.  • Worked with the Business Analysts in identifying and defining the requirements and documented for client approvals.  • Worked closely with the Senior Developer/Manager and Technical Lead for understanding the functional and technical requirements and design.  • Involved in design, develop and deploy end to end manual process with automated robots.  • Analyze the feasibility of existing process suitable for automation.  • Worked with mainframe, windows, web application and surface automation.  • Gathered business requirements, current and future state process designs and translated them into process flows and Visual Business Objects within the Blue Prism object studio, Blue Prism process studio.  • Experienced in building Blue Prism Processes and Business Objects for various business systems.  • End to end process automation using Blue Prism and user authentication by defining user roles, creating users and setting password policies.  • Efficiently handled monitoring and troubleshooting the Blue Prism environment through Control room.  • Experience in managing robot's workloads using Blue Prism Work Queues.  • Researched on the issues of the bots and identified the necessary plug-in for un-interrupted functioning of robots.  • Provided technical training to team members, offshore on automation tools and platforms.  • Formulated and executed agile processes for enhancing performance.  • Coordinate with offshore team during developing, testing and deployment  • Responsible in analysis, design, developing and testing of REST based web services. Also used SOAP UI/POSTMAN for testing.  • Supporting the system components during system testing, integration testing and during promotion of these components to production environment.    Environment: Blue Prism, Quality Center 9.0, Blue Prism, Java/J2EE, Spring (Core/ORM/MVC/JMS), Hibernate, Web Services (REST), Ant, Log4j, J Unit Framework, Angular JS, CSS, JSP, HTML, Python, XML, AJAX, GIT, Tomcat, Oracle 10g, RPA Developer (Automation Anywhere) Tyler Technologies - Dallas, TX February 2013 to March 2015 Description: Tyler Technologies is a major public-sector software company that based on providing integrated software and technology service to public sector - cities, counties, states and school districts. Odyssey project provides services for different kinds of modules as required by the government entities. Appraisals & Tax division takes care of property taxes assessed on properties within the county, maintains information about the payments processed, warrants issued, agent activity on the properties, and garnishment information.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and articulated business requirements from user interviews and converted them into technical specifications.  • Analyzed Information, Reported Results, Technical understanding, Promoted Process Improved, Managed Processes.  • As a developer provided End-to-End solution for a Business process using Robotic Process Automation Blue Prism tool.  • Involved in prominent level RPA assessment and Solution designed for a business process.  • Participated in setting up the RPA's Automation Anywhere environment in both front end and back end.  • Implemented End to End Robotic Process Automation (RPA) in a banking sector using Automation Anywhere.  • Managing the importing and exporting data between files and applications.  • Automated the daily manual tasks using the Automation Anywhere and created bots that runs on daily and weekly basis.  • Worked on advanced Automation Anywhere concepts such as surface automation for the web application and created a clear process flow that is understandable in future.  • Created regular Bots that run on the specified times in order to export all the bank transactions and keeps track on the transactional information.  • Creating solution on process automation for different business applications such as windows based, web based, and java based.  • Managing governance and adopting Automation Anywhere best approaches.  • Created Automation Anywhere new objects and processes using workflows and work queues that are efficient, maintainable and well structured.  • Participated in creation of a process that involve in automation of web page and tested it by deploying the process on to the server in the control room.  • Developed solutions using Robotic Process automation and maintained technical responsibility in project delivery.  • Involved in feasibility study for Robotic Process Automation implementation by developing proof of concept (POC) and validating it with proof of value (POV)  • Created architecture documentation for RPA Automation Anywhere Documentation.  • Worked on advanced Automation Anywhere technology for Web services, which has reduced the overall development and maintenance by 50%.  • Automated gathering details of the claim and match them to the criteria to process it.  • Analyzed information, reported results, Technical understanding, Promoted process, Improvement, Managed processes.  • Designed all the processes it the way it is simple to understand when it is referred and helping in reducing the effort to reduce the cycle time, avoid rework, eliminated inspections and quality control steps and prevent errors using Business process mapping technique (BPM)    Environment: Automation Anywhere, SQL server 2012, Quality Center, windows, Excel, Agile Scrum, HTML, CSS, UNIX/Windows. Software Engineer LazerTech Solutions - Pune, Maharashtra May 2010 to January 2013 Description: We have a minutely layered approach of delivering globally competent services by weaving our extensive knowledge and proven track record of what "works" to build tomorrow's technical solutions for the present business. Every service we offer is specifically customized to cater to your brand message and your business goals.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and documented the requirements.  • Developed templates using LIMS basics.  • Developed reports using crystal report designer.  • Developed applications in ASP.NET using C#.NET in code behind pages.  • Developed application using MVC 3.0.  • Created the crystal and BOXI reports and deploy them on to the BOXI servers.  • Deployed the code on to the IIS on both QA and UAT servers.  • Configuring Master data for Analysts.  • Supporting the LIMS applications and finding root causes for various sites.  • Developed web forms in ASP.NET using Visual Studio environment.  • Used JavaScript to handle front end validations.  • Developed Business Objects and Data Access Layer using C#.net, ADO.net.  • Used CSS to have a uniform look and feel throughout the project.  • Created tables, views, stored procedures, Packages, functions and triggers using ORACLE Server 10g.  • Deployment on Client Server.    Environment: MS Visual Studio 2012/2010, .Net Framework 4.5 & 4.0, JAVA, Jasper Reports, C#.Net, WCF, ASP.Net 3.5 & 4.0, MVC 3.0, Jasper Reports, SQL, Oracle 10G Education Masters in Information Technology Central Queensland University - Sydney NSW June 2007 Bachelors in Computer Technology Nagpur University - Nagpur, Maharashtra June 2004 Skills SQL (8 years), WEB SERVICES (6 years), .NET (6 years), CSS (5 years), JAVA (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:  RPA Tools Blue Prism, UiPath and Automation Anywhere.  Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux.  Microsoft .NET NET Framework, ASP.NET, MVC, Entity Framework, ADO.NET, LINQ, Web Services, WCF, WPF, Azure, Ajax, Win Forms, Web Forms, Web API  Programming Languages C#, VB.NET, C++, JAVA, ADO.NET, WPF, WCF, WF, Entity Framework, HTML, SOAP, DHTML, XML, XSL, LINQ, XSD, XPATH, XDR, XSLT, CSS and PeopleSoft.  Scripting JavaScript, jQuery  Protocols HTTPS/HTTP, FTP, SMTP, SOAP and TCP/IP  Database Oracle 9i, 10g, SQL Server 2016/14/12/10/08 and My SQL  Web/App Servers: Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, IIS 8.0/7.5/7.0/6.0/5.0