Senior .Net Developer Senior .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior .Net Developer - ACI Worldwide Texas City, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior .Net Developer ACI Worldwide - Norcross, GA August 2016 to Present ACI Worldwide is a payment Systems Company headquartered in Naples, Florida. ACI's products and services are designed to facilitate electronic payments and are used principally by financial institutions, retailers and electronic payment processors ACI Worldwide powers electronic payments for more than 5,100 organizations around the world. ACI's portfolio of products generally addresses four primary market segments: Retail Banking (credit and debit card issuers), Whole Sale Banking, Retailers and Bill Pay Solutions.    ERP System is a web based project, which covers various modules aiming to provide all needs of employee within single window. This system contains more than 100 user controls and only 4 web pages. Employee Management, Admin Management, Leave Management, Project Management & Time Sheet, CPMS (competency performance management system) are the major modules in this system. This system is fully secured, depending upon the log in employee role menus, modules & sub-modules load run timely.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Communicating and Interacting with Business analysts, Project managers and testers to understand the project requirements, prototype and architecting the new application using SOA and Agile.  • Worked on the Subversion (SVN), which is used as a Source control.  • Worked more on backend side and Batch programming.  • Migrated code from DB2 to Oracle and used Oracle SQL Developer for query fixing.  • Used ADO.NET to provide connectivity to SQL Server back end database.  • Involved in various phases like Analysis, Detailed Design, Development, Testing, Implementation, and Production Support.  • Designed and developed the application using ASP.NET 4.5, C#, WCF, Generics, XML, MVC 4.0, SQL Server 2012.  • Implemented graphical user interface (GUI) for web forms.  • Created Business Logic and Data Access Layers to implement the MVC architecture.  • Implemented Routing, Security, Action Filter techniques for application development.  • Used AngularJS, a JavaScript framework to bind the data to the HTML using directives like ng-app, ng-model and ng-bind directives.  • Implemented Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) to improve look and feel of the web page.  • Used strongly typed view models over View Bag and View Data to send data from Controller to View.  • Worked on Windows Services coding, testing and implementation.  • Used the Razor View Engine which combines both the HTML and C# code in the same page.  • Used SharePoint default web services (REST) to get data to display in SharePoint sites  • Used partial views and layouts to provide a consistent look and feel.  • Handled Run Time Errors & Design Time Errors by implementing appropriate Error handlers in C#.Net.  • Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET MVC Framework (C#.NET, ADO.NET).  • Implementation of client side validations using JQuery and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level.  • Involved in retrieving data using LINQ to SQL and LINQ to Objects with ASP.NET, worked with the database using LINQ to SQL.  • Wrote code to create SSRS reports and created complex SSIS packages using proper Control and Data flow elements.  • Analyzed and designed new WPF application using MVVM, from design to completion.  • Leveraged Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) when migrating application from Dot Net 3.5 and 4.0.  • Developing complex Stored procedures, User Defined Function and Triggers in SQL Server.  • Intensively worked in application using SOA architecture developing Web Services around existing business functions.  • Implemented Win Forms and Web Forms using ASP.NET.  • Responsible for deployment of the Application in production and resolving any post-deployment issues.  • Provided estimates, daily & weekly status report to the client on progress of the tasks.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4.0, WCF, WPF, ADO.NET, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, MVC 4.0,CSS, AJAX, HTML, HTML 5, XML, Aqua data studio 14.0, Oracle SQL Developer 4.0.3, IBM DB2, MS Visual Studio 2013. Senior .Net Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC November 2015 to July 2016 The Project we are implemented is strategic solution and replacement for procure to pay (P2P) Invoice Imaging Platform for Accounts payable. Currently the Platform is provided by open Text/Global 360 which is no longer a Wells Fargo preferred solution provider. The project represents the Build out Internal Enterprise Imaging solution (File Net/Kofax) and is aligned the E & E 2020 goals.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and identifying requirements and defining the business rules to user requirements.  • Involved in developing applications using .NET 4.5 frameworks.  • Worked closely on customer's development team to identify API's and document workflows, business requirements and domain knowledge.  • Worked on Agile Methodology to achieve smooth collaboration between self-organizing, cross-functional teams.  • Worked with MVC architecture application.  • Implemented & maintained the branching and build/release strategies utilizing Subversion.  • Worked on developing Views, controllers and business logic models using C#.  • Involved in front-end web application design and development using HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap 3, AngularJS and various Angular UI modules.  • Developed application UI using Silverlight with MVVM pattern backed up with WCF Rest based Services.  • Worked on various types of testing like System Testing, Regression, Integration, and Performance Testing.  • Created a Virtual Network on Windows Azure to connect all the servers.  • Created multiple grid views using Angular UI Grid and Bootstrap CSS.  • Experience in Object-Oriented Design (OOD) within networks as well as online applications.  • Performed database operations on SQL Server 2008/2012 to create and maintain customer's information by creating SQL queries, stored procedures, functions, and views.  • Used Jasmine to perform unit testing for AngularJS pages.  • Used Microsoft Azure to deploy application to cloud server.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4.0, WCF, WPF, ADO.NET, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS,CSS, AJAX, HTML, HTML 5, XML, SQL SERVER 2008, MS Visual Studio 2012. Senior .Net Developer TCC October 2014 to November 2015 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in development life cycle, from design phase to implementation phase, testing and deployment.  • Developed the application using N-Tier Architecture, Multi-threading, and OOPS concepts, including- Abstract classes, Interfaces, Inheritances.  • Created Web forms using User Controls, Custom Controls, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Worked on the Team Foundation Server(TFS), which is used as a Source control.  • Used the different ASP.NET controls like Textbox, Dropdown List, Radio Button, Image Button, Bulleted List etc.  • Knowledge of the ASP.NET Page Life Cycle Events to set Master Pages and Themes dynamically.  • Used the AdRotator control to display random ads.  • An exclusive experience working with User Controls with VB.NET code-behind files, debugging and Quality Testing of the code.  • Extensively used ORM tools like Entity Framework to exchange data between web applications and database objects.  • Used SharePoint Object Model for developing the Web Parts with C#.NET as the language for development to meet the user requirements.  • Involved in designing, developing, debugging and testing of reports in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Used SSIS to unite data from existing system and performed transformations on MS SQL 2008.  • Configured Azure cloud service for end point deployment.  • Involved in the design and development of application on ASP.Net MVC 3.0 Framework.  • Developed Web services using WCF for export and import of data.  • Good knowledge of controls like MultiView and Wizard.  • Created strongly named assemblies and added them to the GAC to avoid DLL Hell problems.  • Used the various validation controls like Required Field Validator, Range Validator, Regular Expression Validator, and Custom Validator to perform Client side validation and also used Validation Summary Control to display all the validation messages at one place.  • Used JavaScript to display alert messages on client side on a click event.  • Used Ajax Update Panel for faster post back of the data and prevent flickering of the screen.  • Implemented a separate query processing using LINQ and created data entry web applications, with LINQ to SQL operations.  • Worked on reporting tool supported to show the data from AWS is Kibana.  • Worked on pushing the data to DB. Used Mango DB and Dynamo DB(AWS).  • Made use of State Management techniques like Cookies and Query strings to transfer data from one web page to another.  • Designed Master Pages for the application to have a consistent layout.  • Defined CSS class property on the ASP.NET controls to define styles on them.  • Used ADO.NET data objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, Dataset, Data Table, Repeater and XML Text Reader/ XML Text Writer for consistent access to SQL data sources.  • Used the Grid View control to display the data on the UI, changed the Header text of a column as per requirement by turning off the Auto Generate Columns of the Columns property of the Grid View.  • Used Stored Procedures and Parameterized queries to prevent Sql Injection.  • Unit Testing and extensively involved in Bug Fixing.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4.0, WCF, WPF, ADO.NET, VB.NET, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS,CSS, AJAX, HTML, HTML 5, XML, SQL SERVER 2008, MS Visual Studio 2012. .Net Developer Heartland Payment System, IN November 2012 to September 2014 Heart SIP is an embedded application designed and developed by Heartland Payment Systems (HPS) that would run on a SIP (Semi-Integrated Peripheral) device (like Ingenico iSC250 etc.)  Heart SIP is based on Heartland's Spectrum application in SIP mode; the Heart SIP application is driven by an ECR (aka POS) system.    Heartland Payment Systems will help to settle these transactions with the bank on behalf of the clients, our major customers are 7 Eleven, Conoco Phillis.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed GUI using .Net framework 3.5.and responsible for creating components using C#.Net.  • Implemented Agile Scrum methodology for the business modelling.  • Worked on the Team Foundation Server (TFS), which is used as a Source control.  • Application design and development of support documents.  • Involved in developing, enhancing the browser based Intranet applications using ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET.  • Developed the presentation layer, which consisted of ASP.NET Web Forms, User Controls and their associated code-behind files.  • Created web application prototypes to paint a vision for front -end user interaction with useful static information using custom modules in AngularJS.  • Created SSIS packages. Used SSAS for creating cubes for analysis purposes.  • Created Crystal Reports SSRS reports based on user requirements.  • Coded the application logic layer which contained all the business rules and business entities represented by C# Classes. It also contained data access logic and data access classes using ADO.Net, which would communicate with the underlying database layer.  • Developed WCF web services for calling API methods.  • Used ADO.NET to provide connectivity to SQL Server back end database.  • Sessions and View state objects were used to store the state of the user.  • Created and maintained the Admin page for central management of the application.  • Implemented Microsoft ASP.Net AJAX Extender Controls like Calendar, Tab Control and Update Panel controls to provide a rich and user-friendly user-interface.  • Designed the business logic and implemented it by creating interfaces, abstract classes, static classes and sealed classes.  • Writing Stored Procedures and Batch Queries in SQL Server.  • Participated in periodic technical reviews of various modules and developed schema to improve them.    Environment: C#.NET 3.5, ASP.NET, VB.NET, WCF, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS,SQL Server 2008, Visual Studio 2010, AJAX, IIS, Windows 7. Software Developer IGATE Global Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2010 to October 2012 IGATE is an IT services company with key services including Application Development and Application Maintenance, Business Intelligence and Analytics, Business Process Outsourcing, Cloud Services, Enterprise Mobility, Infrastructure Management Services, P&ES Embedded systems, Product Verification and Validation, and Verification & Validation.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project from requirements gathering to transition.  • Developed the application pages using Visual Studio .Net 2008, ASP.NET controls, CSS, JQuery and user controls.  • Understood and analyzed the client's requirements and involved in GUI designing of the application.  • Developed the software using Agile Methodology.  • Worked on the Team Foundation Server(TFS), which is used as a Source control.  • Designed and developed components in VB.NET.  • Developed win forms using C# environments and ADO.Net.  • Created ASP.NET pages using C#.NET for middle-tier processing of client requests with ADO.NET interfaces for database and implemented stored procedures.  • Wrote SQL queries with Joins on multiple tables, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Indexes using LINQ and SQL Server 2008.  • Reviewed extensively on MS-Visio to design various UML Diagrams.  • Implemented MVC 3.0 to reduce the complexity and to get full control over the behaviour of the application.  • Used C#.Net to develop code behind logic, business tier and SQL server 2008 for data tier.  • Used WPF and WCF to communicate between DAL and other business components  • Developed a Database project in SQL Server 2008.  • Implemented Data access layer using ADO.NET to connect, retrieve or manipulate data from SQL Server 2008.  • Worked on ASP.NET features like state Management, caching features, configuring optimizations and securing web application.  • Used ADO.NET and data objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, Dataset, Data table for consistent access to SQL data sources.  • Used custom Data Grid, Dataset and Data Reader to retrieve, display and manipulate data.  • Participated in meetings with Business users and with other project teams to ensure that the volatile business requirements reflect in the project development    Environment: C#.NET 3.0, ADO.NET, VB.NET, VB, HTML, JavaScript, WCF, WPF, JQuery, SQL Server 2008, Visual Studio 2010, AJAX, LINQ, MS Visio. Education BACHELOR OF TECHNOLOGY in COMPUTER SCIENCE JNTU Skills .NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO .NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO .NET 2005, VISUAL STUDIO Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, C#,VB.NET  Technologies ASP.NET, ADO.NET, WPF, WCF, MVC, 3,4, Web API, REST API  Database SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, MS Access, Oracle, Sybase, DB2  Frameworks .NET 3.0/3.5/4.0, MVC, MVP, LINQ, Entity Framework  Web Technology HTML, XML/XSLT, WSDL, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, SOAP, Web Services, REST APIS, AngularJS  Architecture N-tier, Client-Server and Internet / Intranet  Reporting Tools Crystal Report, SQL Reporting Services  Server Platforms IIS 7.0/6.0/5.0  IDE Microsoft Visual Studio .NET 2005/2008/2010/2013