Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Chamblee, GA Looking for a Web Developer position where I can improve my skills on programming languages and database management. I am a consistent, hard working, highly motivated person. I enjoy working as a part of a team.  Serkan Gunaydin Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Atlantic American Corporation - Atlanta, GA July 2015 to Present Working on various projects for an insurance company. We use C#, JavaScript, KnockoutJS, Angular, SSRS, SQL, MVC.NET, Visual Studio 2019, .Net Core.    Some of the tasks involve creating new reports or pages, modifying existing pages or fixing bugs.  I also create product backlog items, tasks, in Azure DevOps.    Create JavaScript pages, models, View Models, controllers, cshtml, CSS, stored procedures.  Prior to testing I create a branch in staging and then release it for testing. After approval, I merge the code to a master branch and release it.    Created a project using Angular, .NET Core and bootstrap 4 where customers can register log-in, view their policies/claims and make payments.    I work in and understand both the front-end and back-end. Software Developer CRIF Lending Solutions - Atlanta, GA December 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities  Making softwares for a lending company. Maintenaince of the existing web sites. Fixing the bugs.    Accomplishments  I was a part of the team. Everybody was working in small pieces. I was adding new features to the website. For example I added a progress bar, toggling the sections, changed the design using bootstrap etc.     Skills Used  C#, ASP.Net 2010, SQL Server, JavaScript, XML, CSS, TFS, Bootstrap.    Supervisor: Swetha Produturi email: S.Produturi@criflending.com phone: 310-756-9909 Software Developer - Part Time Premier Innovative Technologies - Atlanta, GA August 2013 to November 2013 Working on a windows application for a transportation company. VB.Net 2012, SQL Server 2012.    Supervisor: Thomas Pickens phone: 404-368-9595 email: info@premieritech.net Software Programmer - Intern VeriPark - ?stanbul 2010 to 2011 Job Description: Developed projects that satisfied customers' demands; as well as maintained current projects. Creating and modifying Stored Procedures.We developed some applications using C#, .NET and SQL in the company. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Cardiff Metropolitan University - London 2012 to 2013 Associate Degree in Computer Technology and Programming Yildiz Technical University - ?stanbul 2006 to 2008 Foreign Language Intensive ?i?li Yunus Emre High School - ?stanbul 2001 to 2005 Skills C# (5 years), Javascript (5 years), Angular (2 years), DevOps (1 year), .Net Core (2 years), .NET (6 years), SSRS (3 years), CSS (5 years), HTML 5 (4 years), Bootstrap (5 years) Additional Information Projects:  1-)Expense Approvement System It is a web application that keeps information of employers’ food, gas, taxi and other similar expenses. The employer fills up a form then the manager approves the expense listed and then sends it to the accoutant who pays expenses at the end of the month.     2-)Library System   It is a web application that keeps all the information in the database and provides borrowing and keeps track of returns.    3-)Transportation Windows Application  It is a windows application for a transportation company.It is written using VB.Net 2012, SQL Server 2012.