Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - Thomson Reuters Dallas, TX • Around 8 years of IT experience in various technologies, includes around 5years of experience as SFDC consultant and 3 years of experience in Java, C# and SQL Server 2005.  • Well versed with all phases of SDLC like requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and deployment, and documenting.  • Strong business knowledge in Salesforce automation, Opportunity management, leads management and customer portal functionalities.  • Administration, Configuration, Implementation and support experience on Salesforce.com platform.  • Experience in customizing the standard objects, creating the custom objects, Interfaces, Relationships, Workflow rules, triggers, Data Validations, force.com Approval Processes Visualforce pages, Apex classes and business logic according to the business requirements.  • Experience in working with client specific solutions like Salesforce.com Sandbox deployments, Force.com IDE, Eclipse IDE, SOQL, SOSL and various production environments.  • Extensive experience in designing of custom objects, custom fields, Picklist, Profile based page layouts, Workflow Alerts, Actions, Approval Workflow, Validation Rules, Approval Processes, custom Tabs, custom reports, report folders, design of Visual Force Pages, Snapshots, Dashboards, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Experience in working with Debug Apex Scripts using Debug Logs and System Log Console to catch Exceptions and execute Governor Limits.  • Experience in SFDC Integration using Web Service and Apex Programming, Sales force  • Good experience in integrating services using Salesforce marketing cloud.  • Strong knowledge about Sales cloud, Service cloud, Marketo configuration and customization and good understanding with Client/Server architecture, Object-Oriented design techniques and web application design  • Extensive experience in lead, Case management, web-to-lead, Web-to case, Email-to-case  • Good understanding of Salesforce.com Governor Limits with an ability to optimize code to respect those limits  • Experience in working with Salesforce.com sandbox and production environments  • Good experience in working on Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in for writing business logic in Apex programming language  • Performed administration activities for SFDC including System Configuration, Analytics Reporting, Data Migration, User Acceptance Testing, End User Training Development& Delivery and System Testing  • Pervasive Knowledge in designing of custom objects, custom fields, Pick list, role based page layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions, Validation Rules, Approval Processes, custom Tabs, custom reports, report folders, report extractions to various formats, design of Visual Force Pages, Record Types, Dashboards, and Email generation according to application requirements  • Having Administration experience on CRM Applications like Data Exports & Imports, Application Support, Security Administration, Maintenance, and User & Security Management.  • Experience in Setting up Salesforce Communities for building Deeper Customer Relationships with direct customer interaction. Enabling Customers to Give Feedback and share their enthusiasm For Brand and Product for advance enhancements.  • Experience in Sales cloud, Service cloud, Salesforce marketing cloud, Partner portal and Customer portal.  • Experience in developing client-specific solutions on force.com platform using Apex classes and Triggers, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL  • Worked in a fast-paced environment meeting the requirements of business  • Experience in integration of Salesforce.com Applications with Other applications with an emphasis of the Web Services/XML  • Worked with team members for full-cycle projects, such as developers, to complete consulting projects on time, and deliver outstanding consulting services to salesforce.com clients  • Expert in implementing security and sharing rules at object, field, record level for various users at various levels of organization. Also, created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy  • Ability to write complex SOQL, SOSL queries across multiple objects within the SFDC database.  • Experience in capturing, analyzing and documenting requirements for Salesforce.com implementations  • Ability to write quality, high performance code using the programming language(s)  • Team player with good interpersonal skills, strong understanding of fundamental business processes, excellent Communication and Problem solving skills  • Having knowledge on Siebel Customer relationship management (CRM Application)  • Excellent Client management skills, presentation skills, operational metrics, time management, analytical, great communication and interpersonal skills    Salesforce Certification: Salesforce Certified Administrator (201)  Salesforce Certified Platform Developer I  Salesforce Certified Platform App Builder Work Experience Salesforce Developer Thomson Reuters - Roanoke, VA June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed and deployed Salesforce.com Unlimited edition in Sales Cloud Platform.  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and worked on documentation.  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and created solutions by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com API, and Web Services.  • Used Agile methodology to organize tasks between the development team with weekly scrums  • Created various Custom Objects, Custom Settings, Custom Labels, Validation rules, Record types, Custom Tabs, Workflow rule and approval process including Field updates and email alerts.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Created Web-to-Lead and Web-to-Case forms. Created Escalation rules to escalate the cases  • Imported data from excel sheets in to Leads, Accounts, Contacts and Opportunities using Data Loader and Import Wizard.  • Worked with admin team to create profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information on the profile users.  • Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Apex Controllers to develop custom business logic  • Participated in the bug review meetings with Testing Team and, updated requirements document as per business user feedback and change in functionality of the application.  • Integrated Apex controller methods directly with JavaScript functions using Force.com JavaScript Remoting feature and created Visualforce pages  • Customized the entire Salesforce.com applications to incorporate the business requirements which involved creating Web Forms and processing the data in SFDC with the extensive usage of Web services API.  • Integrated Salesforce with external billing applications using MuleSoft Salesforce connector  • Experienced in the use of Data Loader and scheduling timely data backup operations using Apex scheduler.  • Developed SFDC Customized Reports, Dashboards and Processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Performed the role of support engineer for the internal users and helped them in getting used to the application, generated reports and saved them for further access to the users.  • Extensively involved in data migration from three legacy systems to Salesforce  • Implemented minor enhancements on standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Dashboards and Reports  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects. Also, created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Designed various HTML Email templates for Auto-Response to customers  • Created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements  • Built a call center application for service agents using Salesforce Console  • Responsible for migrating existing data (Accounts, Contacts, Events and Tasks) from legacy systems to Salesforce.com using data Loader.  Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex Classes, Triggers, Controllers, Visualforce, Force.com, SOSL, SOQL, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Page layout, custom links, Roles, Cast Iron, Data Loader, Data Migration, Dashboard Salesforce Developer Syncreon Logistics - Detroit, MI January 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Created search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements.  • Designed and developed SFA based Application on Force.com Platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visual-Force pages as user interface.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Sales force as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Configured Sales Force Automation (SFA) for Campaign management, Opportunity Management, Account and Contact Management, Data Quality Management,  • Developed complex workflows and approval processes for automating business logic  • Used Force.com platform for developing feature rich and user friendly Visual force pages for enhancing Salesforce UI.  • Integrated web services for the campaigns and leads using salesforce marketing cloud.  • Automated the process for finding the next available service technician and listing them as part of the record  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules on the objects and tabs, Components and Custom links.  • Used Salesforce.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Controllers and Triggers, Visual force, Force.com IDE, Migration Tool, Web Services API.  • Developed a process to update application status from "Submitted" to "Approved/Rejected" based on manager approval and make web service callout and change final status to "Approved/Rejected"  • Configured federated login to ensure that single sign on in implemented across the company  • Enabled Salesforce connections between partner sales force orgs and the client's org.  • Created search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Used Salesforce Automation Process (SAP), Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Created reports to show essential metrics on Salesforce1 mobile platform to management team, specifically, in regards to sales goals  • Worked on Salesforce.com Application to Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.    Environment: SalesForce.com CRM Application Platform, Apex Language, Visual Force, HTML, JavaScript, Custom Objects, Tabs, Workflows, Approval Processes, Email, Messaging, Dashboards, Reports, Eclipse, Sandbox, Production environment, SSO, Sfd2sfdc. Salesforce Developer/ Salesforce Administrator TD Auto Finance - Denver, CO April 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Opportunities.  • Created various custom objects as per requirement.  • Worked on various standard Objects like Accounts, Case, and Contact.  • Created Security settings for Roles and Profiles and managed Security Sharing Settings.  • Developed Validation Rules for the Custom Objects and Workflow rules and Approvals for some fields.  • Worked on various standard Objects like Accounts, Case, Contact  • Implemented field level security, Profile and audit trail setup.  • Customized several Workflows, validation rules, Triggers, Apex classes.  • Deployed SFDC package from one organization to other organization  • Created a process to connect service requests with next available technician to maximize effective time use  • Wrote SOQL statements within custom controllers  • Used Salesforce1 Mobile App to allow technicians to upload pictures of locations and update records  • Developed APEX class, Controller class and APEX Triggers from various functional needs in the application.  • Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps  • Designed, and deployed the Custom objects, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules on the objects and tabs, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application  • Used Data Loader to export, update and insert leads from Excel into SFDC  • Created and updated reports which were used to increase the Salesperson's awareness, efficiency and coverage of specific metro areas. Information included all covered prospects by contacts, phone numbers, last contact date  • Developed and maintained up to date planning and documentation on Salesforce projects  • Provided daily user support in managing users, creating and maintaining custom objects and fields, handling bulk data migration, maintenance of page layouts, and installation and support of App Exchange applications like Exact Target and Marketo    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visual Force, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader, SF Explorer and Eclipse IDE Plug-in, AppExchange apps, Flows, SOAP and REST API Salesforce Developer Evolent Finance - Eagan, MN April 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the Analysis and detailed Design of the Database Tables.  • Used JSP for taking the user input and sending it to the Java business classes.  • Used JavaScript for front end validations.  • Designed and developed various Core and Advanced Java application modules using Applets, Swing, AWT and Threading.  • Responsible for developing some of the PHP based frameworks.  • Developed the programs using HTML, JSP, XML, and Servlets.  • Responsible for executing the JAVA web applications on application server.  • Developed SQL Queries and stored procedures in SQL Server for retrieving the data from the database.  • System and database performance tuning.  • Involved in writing Unit test cases and testing the system.  • Written Database objects like Triggers, Stored procedures in SQL.  • Interacted with the users and documented the System.  • Fix bugs identified during system testing, integration testing and problems identified in production.  • Worked with the application production support and maintenance.  • Involved in debugging the application  • Worked efficiently in a very tight schedule to meet the deadlines.  • I was part of the design team to finalize the design/ architecture of the project and developed core modules.  • Involved in testing the application during the system and integration test phases.  • Perform system requirements analysis, definition, allocation, and documentation.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, HTML, JSP, Ajax, Servlets, XSL, XML, JNDI, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, SQL Server 2000, PHP, JDBC.Implemented struts validation framework for serve side validation. Software Developer Maximus Inc January 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various activities of the project, like information gathering, analyzing the information, documenting the functional and non functional requirements.  • Lead planning meetings, analysis development, test inspections, and other project meetings throughout project life cycle.  • Mainly responsible for integration of data with salesforce.com using Java Web Services.  • Created various Custom Reports for standard objects as well as custom objects to give complete detail overview of Customer (Account) Orders, Renewal Forecasting, ROI calculation, Inventory Graphs.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Written Database objects like Triggers, Stored procedures in SQL  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Developed web based application using Java Struts architecture to help users view information from various hardware systems whose data was stored on MYSQL database.    Environment: JSP 2.0, JDBC, HTML, OOAD, Servlets, Web Services, Rational Rose, WSAD 5.0, UML, Java 1.6, EJB 2.0, JSF, QA, Hibernate, AJAX, CVS, XML/XSL Education Bachelor in Engineering in Electrical & Electronics in Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University