Senior software Developer Senior <span class="hl">software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior software Developer - Centene Corporation 9 years of strong experience in Software Development and Application Production support in Health Care Department. Experienced in various phases of Software development life cycle such as Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Integration and Unit Testing using Opentext/HP Exstream Dialogue Tool, Communications Server, Communication Builder, Communication Server, Content Author, Patternstream, Adobe Framemaker, SQl and UNIX. Development of Application from start to end and worked in planning the work accordingly in line with timeline. Good hands on experience in AO and T&M scope and Involved in enhancement, maintenance and support applications and also customizing the applications as per Client's requirement. Ability to work on projects on both Agile and Waterfall models. Excellent analytical, logical, relationship management skills and motivated self-starter with an attitude for learning new technologies. Strong Problem Solving & technical Skills coupled with confident decision making for enabling effective solutions leading to high customer satisfaction as well as low operational costs. Work Experience Senior software Developer Centene Corporation May 2017 to Present Operating System: Windows, Linux.  Tools: Opentext/HP Exstream Dialogue designer 9.5, Dialogue Live Editor 4.5, HP Command Center 2.4.2, Team Size: 9  Role: Senior software Developer  Period: May 2017 till date.    Project Objective  The objective for this program is to expand the Centene Medicare and Medicaid Healthcare program across regions in USA.    Project Description  The primary purpose of this project is to compose the Communication templates, letters, ID cards, Checks, Statements, RA, EOBs, EOCs in OCOE application for Centene. OCOE Application receives data extract from various operating systems, compose the data and make the data ready for printing and also archive the pdf &/or csv version of the documents composed. OCOE System has implemented the below tools: Command Center for job processing, Dialogue for document composition, Smarty streets & Verimove for address cleansing, and Solar for archival purpose    Role and Responsibilities  • Have migrated couple of old Dialogue applications from 8.0 to 9.5 to the new OCOE platform using Opentext/HP Extream Dialogue.  • Have designed and integrated with the Print vendor (USTS Chatsworth, CA USA) for changes performed in the new job definition format (JSF5).  • Have developed new application Userjobs (DLF + Fulfillment) to enable the user to create their own templates as they wish and have them printed with the customer information dynamically using Dialogue Live.  • Have enhanced new features in Userjobs application with Dialogue Live which will allow the Business users to add content dynamically by fetching the names from Database. This feature will help Business to add content dynamically without doing a code change from Development team.  • Have developed new Centene Pharmacy Letter templates for 20 States which will generate 100 Letters based on the Plan information sent in input file using Opentext/HP Extream Dialogue  • Have coordinated with the source system for the data configuration for the letters to print with the correct Plan information.  • Have coordinated with the Business to get clarifications on all the Pharmacy templates.  • Executed QA/UAT(Integration testing) successfully without any major defects.  • Have successfully adapted from waterfall model to Agile model and extensively used and tracked all the efforts in JIRA tool.  Project #2: OCOE 1.0 Healthnet Communication Letters    Organization: Cognizant Technology Solutions  Location: Rancho Cordova, California, USA.  Title: Output Centre Of Excellence (OCoE) in Healthnet.  Client: Healthnet Inc.  Operating System: Windows, Linux.  Tools: Opentext/HP Exstream Dialogue designer 8.0-8.5, HP Command Center 2.4.2  Team Size: 5 Cognizant Technology Solutions May 2016 to Present 36 Visa Expiry June 2019 to June 2019 Onsite Tech Lead/Coordinator June 2016 to May 2017 Project Objective  The objective for this program is to generate Business and customer Communication letters for the Healthnet insurance plans for Commercial, Medicare, Medicaid, Duals Line of Business.    Project Description  The primary purpose of this project is to compose the Business and customer Communication templates, letters, ID cards, Checks, Statements, RA, EOBs, EOCs in OCOE application for Healthnet. OCOE Application receives data extract from various operating systems, compose the data and make the data ready for printing and also archive the pdf &/or csv version of the documents composed. OCOE System has implemented the below tools: Command Center for job processing, Dialogue for document composition, Spectrum & Verimove for address cleansing, and Verity for archival purpose.    Role and Responsibilities  • Have been OCOE 1.0 Onsite coordinator and successfully lead and implemented all the OCOE projects for the period June 2016 to May 2017 without any major risks.  • Analyze business and functional requirements  • Participating in Project BARR and Brief Review meetings and provide inputs to Offshore team on the BARR and Brief documents  • Interact with client to gather the clarifications on various projects in Planning, Design and Execution of projects  • Responsible for coordinating and supporting the external vendors for the vendor side modifications needed to comply with Healthnet.com  • Organize and participate in various projects and process related meeting  • Provide weekly project status report to Health Net  • Involve in the code changes and review process.  • Involve in UAT support by analysis of UAT issues and arrive with RCA for the same  • Actively participate in resource management by utilizing the right number of resources for the project.  • Arrange knowledge sharing session to the new joiners to avoid any knowledge gap in the team.  • Coordinate with offshore team on various projects.    Project #3  Organization: Cognizant Technology Solutions  Location: Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.  Title: Provider Directory Modernization - Output Centre Of Excellence (OCoE).  Client: Healthnet Inc.  Operating System: Windows, Linux.  Tools: HP Exstream Dialogue designer 8.0-8.5, HP Command Center 2.4.2, FLO, HP Quality center, PL/SQL Developer  Team Size: 14 SME/Offshore Developer June 2015 to May 2016 Project Objective  The objective for the OCOE program is to update the current provider directory system to improve production, maintenance, and delivery while at the same time provide significant reduction in costs associated with those activities. It addresses application and system performance improvements, Preview/Hold, processing multiple jobs in parallel, and generating custom, regional and Geo Coded / Proximity directories using an enhanced User Interface.    Project Description  The primary purpose of the Provider Directory Modernization is to update the current provider directory system to improve production, maintenance, and delivery providing significant reduction in costs associated with the activities. This project addresses system performance improvements, Preview/Hold, processing multiple jobs in parallel and generating regional directories using job ticket information from upstream system and custom books from a new GUI built in Web UI    Role and Responsibilities  • Requirement analysis, application design and estimation of the tasks.  • Input file and requirement analysis by coordinating with different teams.  • Preparation of Brief Assessment, Preparation of Work Order, Preparation of Business System Development and Technical System Development Design documents, Preparation of Unit Test Cases.  • Played key role in Designing Application workflow.  • Providing Proof of Concept (POC) using the Patternstream and Adobe Framemaker Tools.  • Providing complete support in extracting all the Design rules from the existing PSA system  • Preparing numerous spreadsheets and word documents with various scenarios as a part of the requirement gathering  • Preparing sample Provider directory books as a part of the POC for the Template standardization proposal  • Representing PSA (Print Services Application) and providing inputs and clarifications for all the queries raised from the surround systems  • Providing detailed Knowledge Transfer session to the OCOE Team members for the better understanding of the existing Provider directory system  • Designing the Section Templates for the Provider directory books using the Dialogue Designer tool  • Delivering outputs through Print Net print, Email and Fax delivery.  • CR Estimations.  • Coordination with onsite part for status update and requirement gathering.  • Designing Provider directory templates in the Dialogue Designer Tool for the Medical LOB.  • Mentoring subordinates to gain quick knowledge in Dialogue - Work-flow and designing    Project #4  Organization: Cognizant Technology Solutions  Location: Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.  Title: Medical Migration - Output Centre Of Excellence (OCoE).  Client: Healthnet Inc.  Operating System: Windows, Linux.  Tools: HP Exstream Dialogue designer 8.0, HP Command Center 2.4.2, FLO, HP Quality center, PL/SQL Developer  Team Size: 5 Cognizant Technology Solutions - IN June 2010 to May 2016 71 Developer April 2014 to May 2015 Project Objective  The objective for this OCOE program is to migrate the CA Medi-Cal system processing from the QCare platform to the ABS platform and retire the QCare system. This movement will need to encompass the capabilities that allow Health Net's Medi-Cal processing to meet all applicable requirements of the state (i.e. DMHC, DHCS, specific county requirements, etc.) and to allow Medi-Cal processing needs to be accomplished through use of the ABS and surround systems.    Project Description  The primary purpose of the Medical Migration is to migrate the Medical members of Qcare to the ABS system. Hence ABS will be the Future source system pushing the Extracts to OCOE on Successful migration. The changes with respect to the OCOE Medical Migration project is focused on the Template level changes, Return Address changes and Logo changes.    Role and Responsibilities  • Requirement analysis, application design and estimation of the tasks.  • Tracking all the clarifications/issues/queries to closure by following up with the Onsite and surround systems  • Input file and requirement analysis by coordinating with different teams.  • CR Estimations.  • Creation of Technical System Development Design documents and Preparation of Unit Test Cases.  • Played key role in Designing Application workflow.  • Designed Dialogue Templates in the HP Exstream Dialogue Designer Tool.  • Creation of the new applications MCAL Id cards, PEK- CA SHP in OCOE with the help of the HP Exstream Dialogue Designer Tool.  • Developing various components for Sorting, House holding, IMB processing, document Delivery for the newly created applications in the HP Exstream Dialogue Tool.  • Creation and modification of templates in the Claimswr, DOI Letters, PPG Liability, SHP MBR Letters, Unity and Hedis applications with the help of the HP Exstream Dialogue Tool.  • Creation of new Logos in the above mentioned applications.  • Following the Address standardization process using Finalist and Verimove, creating BIF Files using Dialogue Designer which will be used by verity to archive the documents in PSA Archive.  • Creating UTC document and testing all the scenarios based on the requirements and deploying the code to SIT region without missing the timelines.  Project #5    Organization: Cognizant Technology Solutions  Location: Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.  Title: Provider Directory - Print Service Application (PSA).  Client: Healthnet Inc.  Operating System: Windows, Unix.  Tools: ToolsPatternstream, Adobe Framemaker, SQL Developer  Team Size: 5 Developer January 2013 to March 2014 Project Description:  Provider Directories are produced yearly in Spring and Fall and also based on Business request. It contains details about each Hospitals, Physicians, Specialists their phone numbers, contact address, etc. The authorized user in Health Net places an order for the Provider Directory using PSA LPAD GUI screen. The pdf version of the directory is generated by Pattern Stream, which will be published upon approval by Marketing, PDM and PNM departments. Fundamentally it automates the various objectives of the HealthNet,    Role and Responsibilities:  • Application development/Production support.  • Analysis of BARR document and Prepared BARR assessment, Brief assessment, Business System Development, Technical System Development and Work Order.  • Interacting with clients and reviewing the design, requirement clarifications.  • Tracking all the clarifications/issues/queries to closure by following up with the Onsite and surround systems  • Input file and requirement analysis by coordinating with different teams.  • Delivering design documents like BSD and TSD for all the Provider directory AD projects  • Business rule coding, CR Estimations.  • Coordination with onsite counterpart for status update and requirement gathering.  • Creating UTC document and testing all the scenarios based on the requirements and deploying the code to SIT region without missing the timelines  • QA support with defect fixing and issue tracking  • Developing various Shell scripts in Unix environment  • Modifying the SQL files to load the data in DB.  • Proposing various methods and implementing them to tune up the DB and reducing the time consumption in generating the provider directory books  • Framing SQL queries using Patternstream tool.  • Frame Template design using Adobe Framemaker tool.  • Representing PSA in Cognizant Process audits, taking ownership of all the C2 activities including generating the Project plan, Bulk uploading, Defect Tracking and Metrics submission for all the PSA Provider Directory AD projects.  • Coordinating with the QR to close the Observations and NC which has been raised during the audit.    Project #6  Organization: Cognizant Technology Solutions  Location: Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.  Title: Title Dialogue applications - Print Service Application (PSA)  Client: Healthnet Inc.  Operating System: Windows, Unix.  Tools: HP Dialogue designer 6.5  Team Size: 10 Developer January 2011 to December 2012 Project Description:  Print Service Application is a subsidiary of Health Net Inc. USA. This is the GUI and Command Line Application developed in Tcl, Perl, and Shell Script/JSP. Fundamentally it automates the various objectives of the HealthNet  PSA Application receives data extract from various operating systems, compose the data and make the data ready for printing and also archive the pdf &/or csv version of the documents composed. PSA System implements the tools, Finalist for address cleansing, Dialogue for document composition and Verity for archival purpose.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Application Development/Production support.  • Designing of various kinds of documents with HP Exstream Dialogue Designer Tool.  • Developing the end to end workflow of the MLR (Medical Loss Ratio) application in PSA.  • Analyzing the requirements, preparation of Barr assessment, preparation of Brief Assessment, preparation of Work Order, preparation of Business System Development and Technical System Development Design documents, preparation of Unit Test Cases.  • Coordination with onsite and surround systems for status update and requirement gathering.  • Writing/ modifying shell script as part of Minor enhancement/Application maintenance activities.  • Develop Shell scripts, designing of various kind of Templates using Dialogue Designer, Business rule coding, Design and Development of various types of outputs.  • Delivery design by creating Banner pages, Barcodes, Output Layers, Outputs etc, USTS and JDF requirement study and development.  • Following the Address standardization process using Finalist and Verimove, creating BIF Files using Dialogue Designer which will be used by verity to archive the documents in PSA Archive  • Archiving the Employer Report under existing collection having new letter type, Generating the Employer Report in postscript format and send it to CDS for printing and fulfilment.  • Took the ownership in my team to maintain the "check- in" and "check-out" of the developed codes using a repository tool "Concurrent Versions System (CVS)". Also includes responsibility of maintaining the code in different regions  • End to end ownership of tickets from monitoring and tracking to closure and recording of defects.  • Testing- Unit testing and functional testing.    Accomplishments and Certification:  • Brainbench certification in ASP. NET 2.0  • Brainbench certification in C# 2.0, ADO.NET,  • Brainbench certification in Visual Basic .NET fundamentals  • Brainbench certification in ITIL concepts.  • Brainbench certification MS SQL Server 2005 programming.  • Brainbench certification in Business writing.  • Cognizant Certified Professional in "Introduction to Managed Healthcare".  • Successfully implemented and received client appreciation in few projects.  • Received appreciation for training new hires and cooperative team member  • Received appreciation for clean documentation and excellent mail communication.  • Brainbench Certification in .Net  • Cognizant certified professional in Health Care.  • Received Associate of Quarter award in Cognizant in 2015.  • Received Star performer in a 32 member team for the month of July 2018 in Centene projects.  • Safe Agile Certified professional  Passport Details:  Date of Birth: May 28, 1989  Passport No: J0445987  Issued at: Chennai  Date of Expiry: 11, Aug, 2020  Visa Status: H1B Education Bachelor of Technology in Chemical Engineering in A.C.Tech Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2010 Skills EXSTREAM, EXSTREAM DIALOGUE, OPENTEXT, DATA MAPPING, DATABASE, MAPPING, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2000, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, SQL QUERIES, PDF, REAL TIME, .NET, C#, C/C++, C++, REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS, SCRIPTING Additional Information Technical Skills  Hardware / Platforms Windows 9x/2000/XP, Windows 7, SUNOS Solaris 10 SPARC.  Technology .NET, UNIX, LINUX.  Programming Languages C/C++, C#, VB  Databases MS-Access, SQL Server 2000, Oracle9i, Oracle10g, Oracle11g.  Scripting Languages Unix Shell scripting, VB script, ElmSoft FrameScript,  CCM Tools  Opentext Exstream Dialogue 6.0 - 16.6, Communications Server, Communication Builder, Control Center, Content Author, Dialogue Live 9.5, Patternstream, Adobe Framemaker, HP Command Center 2.4.2    Other Packages Beyond Compare 3, MS Office Xp/2010, Adobe Photoshop CS3, JIRA.  Version Control Systems Concurrent Versions System (CVS), Bitbucket    PROFESSIONAL ABRIDGEMENT  • A dynamic professional with 9 years of rich experience in Software development and Project Management.  • Recently associated with Cognizant Technology Solutions, as Senior software developer.  • Expertise in end-to-end development of software products from Requirement analysis to system study, documentation and testing.  • Demonstrated abilities in analyzing information system needs, evaluating end-user requirements, custom designing solutions, troubleshooting for complex information systems management.  • Five plus Years of experience in Opentext/HP Exstream Dialogue programming and testing.  • Expertise in OpenText Exstream Dialogue/Dialogue Live v5-v16.6 tool for document composition and designing  • Expertise in OpenText Communications server, Communication Builder, Control Center and Content author which will allows to make changes to customer communications without engaging IT so that you can respond to competitive changes in real time, communicate new offerings instantly, and act on opportunity  • Expertise in Patternstream and Adobe Framemaker publishing tools for document composition and designing  • Expertise in Job workflow configuration with HP command Center  • Have strong knowledge in Dialogue Data Mapping, Page Design, Output Queues, Flow Tables, Reference files, Barcodes, Search Keys, Dialogue engine processing and application packaging.  • Three years of programming and testing experience in Patternstream Document composing tool.  • Three years of programming and testing experience in Adobe Framemaker Document composing tool.  • Ability to work on projects on both Agile and Waterfall models. Having 5 years' experience in Waterfall methodology and 2 years' experience in Agile Methodology.  • Rich experience in Unix Commands and shell scripting.  • Good knowledge in SQL and PL/SQL concepts in managing the Application database  • Knowledge of print industry and its various processes.  • Excellent knowledge of US healthcare industry and life science industry.  • Excellent knowledge of MS office suite.  • Hands on experience in JIRA, Service now, HP ALM, BMC Remedy, HP Quality centre  • Proactive, dedicated, with excellent communication and interpersonal skills and Enjoy Learning New Technologies and Tools.  • Excellent client handling skills, ability to work within tight deadlines, a Self motivator, Team Player.  • Safe Agile Certified professional.    Customer Communication Products:  Opentext/HP Exstream - Experience in HP Exstream/ HP Extream Dialogue Live (ver 6.x, 8.x, 9.5, 16.4, 16.6).  • Worked on Complete Lifecycle projects.  • Experienced in all aspects of Design Environment (Designer, Design Manager), LIVE and Production environment (packaging, batch engine etc)  • Good experience in creating documents (statements, letters, notifications, alerts, etc)  • Used advanced concepts like tables, sections/paragraphs, barcodes, pass 1/2 sorting, messages, enclosures, search keys for archival systems  • Worked different kinds of driver files, reference files, initialization Files and report Files  • Implemented complex distribution features using Output Queues such as inserters, Banner pages, Reports.  • Have experience on PDF archival tool such as Verity.  • Have extensive knowledge on configuring the Verity tool to suit the customer needs.  • Have created collections and sub-collections in this tool for new Dialogue applications.  • Have developed shell scripts to trigger the Dialogue Engine during passes 1 and 2.    Communications Server Products:  Opentext - Content Author, Communication Builder, Control Center - 16.4, 16.6    • Experienced in building a new Content author project for a Business communication in Open text Exstream 16.4. from scratch. This will allows the Business users to make changes to the customer communications without engaging IT and fulfilling them as needed.  • Experienced in creating Content author compatible applications in Exstream by designing templates in Exstream Designer with Message frames which can be edited in the Content Author screen.  • Experienced in creating design packages, custom rules, CASS integration, Communication browser integration in Exstream 16.  • Have created new projects in Communication Builder which can integrate with Service request to accept new Input files and to process with the Exstream Engine to create outputs with 2 Pass engine call.  • Have successfully migrated the Composition part of Command Center application in Communication Builder by building right phases for 2 Pass applications.  • Have good knowledge on configuring Input Connectors, Output Connectors, Physical Layers, Platforms and Engine Runtime components in Communications Builder tool.  • Have created multiple Before and After scripts in Communication Builder and have used in-built functions to handle the input and output processing dynamically and effectively.  • Have created new projects in Control Center to configure the projects created in the Communication Builder and have successfully established many applications to run end to end with proper Logging.  • Have created new Simulations, Themes in Opentext Workshop and have published them with required parameters and make it ready available for Content Author  • Have successfully created new communications in Content author by editing the themes published from Workshop in Content Author.  • Have added dynamic rules for the messages/paragraphs and have added dynamic variables to handle dynamic business logic in the letter templates using Content author UI.    Patternstream/ Adobe Framemaker/ElmSoft FrameScript - Experience in Patternstream/Adobe Frame Maker (ver 2.3)  • Worked on Complete Lifecycle projects for composing Provider directories using publishing tools Patternstream and Adobe Framemaker.  • Using Patternstream worked on extracting the data from external data sources in a logically structured way and inserts it into the Frame Maker document as text, creating paragraphs, tables and other structural elements as required.  • Have Built various complex SQL queries to pull the data from ORACLE Database using Patternstream tool based on the Business logic to derive the data of hospital name, doctors name, phone numbers, contact address, office timings, language spoken, affiliated providers based on the relationship with their Plans.  • Have designed directories which can have multiple sections with one or more index, a section with index, a section without any index.  • Have designed and implemented the components / Sections used in the various directories are as follows:  ? Table of Contents  ? Header / Footer  ? Front matter Introduction  ? Section Introduction  ? Data sections  ? Index  ? Glossary  ? Superscript logic with footnotes  • Designed and implemented various scripts for automating the outputs based on Business requirements using ElmSoft FrameScript.