Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. Java/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Chicago, IL • Java programmer with 8 years of extensive experience and demonstrated ability in analysis, design, development and testing of n-tier distributed applications using various Object Oriented Technologies such as Java.  • Expertise on entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)in Intranet and Internet applications using Web/Application Servers like Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere and Web logic Application Server.  • Experience in designing and developing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using REST Web Services.  • Designing and Developing RESTful services using JAX-RS specification and consumption of SOAP based Web Services.  • Strong experience in developing Enterprise and Web applications on n-tier architecture using Java/J2EE based technologies such as Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, Web Services, XML, JMS, JNDI and JDBC.  • Proficient in client side development using technologies such as jQuery, JavaScript, JSP, XML, HTML, CSS.  • Strong experience in spring frameworks such as MVC, IOC, DAO, ORM, JDBC.  • Involved in controlling complex page navigation through Spring MVC by configuring state changes and transitions in XML files.  • Strong experience of developing data models using Hibernate POJO's and configuring Hibernate persistence layer.  • Proficient in coding using Collections, Interfaces, Exception Handling.  • Hands on experience with JSTL specification, DTD, Resource Properties, Tag Libraries  • Solid Knowledge in implementing various J2EE design patterns such as Singleton, MVC, Factory, Facade, DAO.  • Hands on experience in using ANT/Maven for project builds, Log4j for logging,  • Extensive experience in using IDEs like Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ.  • Strong working experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) process like Waterfall, Agile Scrum and test-driven development methodologies.  • Experience in database design and development using Oracle 11g, MySQL and SQL server and familiar with tools like SQL *Plus, TOAD.  • Involved in writing various Stored Procedures, Complex Queries, Functions, Triggers,  • Fluid Experience in using MS-Visio and Enterprise Architect to develop expert level comprehensive design modules.  • Good knowledge with version control tools like CVS, SVN.  • Delivered Projects on time and budget.  • Good team player, quick learner with demonstrated ability to work fast and in challenging environment with excellent problem solving skills.  • Strong written and verbal communication and presentation skills  • Excellent analytical, technical, organizational and communication skills with high motivation levels. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Abbvie - North Chicago, IL August 2015 to Present Description: The SNAPP project is an initiative to streamline the purchasing process. The focus is to automate and improve the current process by creating a tool that will provide an automated workflow for creating and submitting purchasing requests (purchase orders, Confidentiality Disclosure Agreements (CDA's), contracts, etc.), assisting in standardizing the legal/compliance contract language, and notification to appropriate stakeholders for awareness. The tool will provide a central location for all purchasing users to begin the purchasing process, will enable users to submit their own purchase requests and will provide them status visibility    Responsibilities:  • Need to co-ordinate with client on a daily basis and develop the application as per requirement  • Involved in all the phases starting with analysis, design, construction, and creation of unit test plans and testing support.  • Effectively interacted with Business Analysts and cleared all the business requirement gaps.  • Use agile practices and Test Driven Development techniques to provide reliable, working software early and often.  • Design Use Case, Class and Sequence diagrams using MS Visio.  • Extensive work experience Eclipse as the IDE to develop, test and deploy the complete application worked with Spring MVC to implement MVC architectural design.  • Development of JPA, Hibernate, DAO for data fetching for batch and front-end processing.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Tested all application controllers extensively with Angular JS built-in testing facilities.  • Develop Stored Procedures, Cursors and Triggers for engine in the Oracle 11g database.  • Develop JUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Use JAX-RS Web Services using Spring REST to process the application for the customer  • Develop Web services for sending and getting data from different applications using REST messages.  • Use Log4j and commons-logging frameworks for logging the application flow, built and deployed the application using WebLogic.  • Work with different teams in the organization to move the changes to different regions (Testing/Production).  • Use SVN for version control and used eclipse as the IDE for developing the application.    Technology Used: Java/ J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle 11g, JQuery, REST Web service, SOAP, Junit, Angular JS, TDD, Log4j Sr. Java Developer Abbvie - North Chicago, IL May 2015 to July 2015 Description: The NPI Tool is used by AI to capture the process for launching a new project in a specific geography. The NPI tool is a custom built web portal designed to make the information necessary to plan a product launch with increased accuracy and precision across multiple countries. The tool is a re-engineered process which is used by all affiliates and involved parties (viz. Planning Centers, Manufacturing Plants, Functional Areas) of AI (except USA) and is the single source of information for all new product related pre-launch procedures and information. The major advantage of the NPI tool is the direct impact on the time to market for a new product across geographies.    Responsibilities:  • Played a pivotal role in the analysis and requirements gathering  • Involved in design and development of the project  • Co-ordination with Client and onsite leads  • Developed User interface using JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, HTML5, and CSS.  • Used AngularJS to create single page applications.  • Developed framework like spring MVC and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Implemented design patterns such as Singleton, Session Façade, and Factory.  • Developed POJO classes and used annotations to map with database tables.  • Developed and consumed RESTful web services using Spring REST architecture.  • Used Hibernate ORM tool for establishing communication with database.  • Developed various triggers, functions, procedures, views in MySQL database.  • Used SVN to control versions in project.  • Performed unit testing by using Junit testing tool and debugged using Log4j.  • Developed automated process for builds and deployments using Jenkins and Maven.  • Built the application using Maven scripts and deployed using tomcat server.  • Followed agile methodology for development process.  • Involved in preparing document at each stage of the project.    Technology Used: Java/ J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, MySQL, Tomcat, JQuery, Jenkins, Maven, Log4j, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, HTML5, and CSS Software Developer USAA, San Antonio Texas - San Antonio, TX February 2013 to March 2015 Description: The Member Service Representatives (MSR) uses multiple applications to create and maintain Personal and Business Relationship data between a Member and their CAP's as well as to create and maintain Business CAP's. These applications include the Corporate Business Transaction (CBT) Green Screen and Portal. This project is intended to migrate of the remaining relationship information between Member and CAP as well as Business CAP functionality from the CBT to Portal so that CBT Transactions can be de-authorized and support USAA's journey from CCIF (Corporate Customer Information File) to ECIF (Enterprise Customer Information File)    Responsibilities:  • To Customize the MSR Portal  • Handling and Supporting Change request from customers  • Lead the offshore team and provided timely project progress reports to track and fix any deviations from the project schedule.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Successfully involved in test driven development model using JUnit.  • Worked on Spring MVC was used to implement MVC architectural design pattern.  • Worked with HTML, JavaScript/ JQuery along with AJAX to develop view layer for interactive front-end web pages.  • Involved in implementation of Application Development patterns like MVC pattern, Data Access Object.  • Installed, configured, Administered and supported IBM WebSphere Application Servers 6.0/6.1 on Windows and Linux environment and Performed routine management of WebSphere environment like monitoring Disk Space and CPU Utilization.  • Worked with JMS (Active MQ Series) as JMS provider for middleware messaging.  • Consumed SOAP web services for a) Reporting tool which aggregates the cardholders data based on location, category and b) Process tool which configures steps and tracks status at each step.  • Collected requirements from Product manager, break down into tasks and run with the scrum team.  • Responsible for the database schema design, Java development and back-end service layer development interacting with the MySQL database using Hibernate for performing CRUD operations.  • Integrated MS-SQL database access through Hibernate-ORM using HQL and SQL queries.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework.  • Used SVN as version control system.    Technology Used: JDK 1.6, JSP, Servlet, spring, Hibernate, HQL, SQL, Eclipse, IBM WebSphere Application Server 6.0&6.1, JMS (Active MQ), MS-SQL, Oracle, JUNIT, TDD, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML, AJAX, Maven, SVN 1.6.1. Java Developer USAA, San Antonio Texas - San Antonio, TX January 2011 to December 2012 Description: The objective of this project is to convert the CRM services from Cordiant technology to Enterprise Web services. It is the process of tracking each contact and significant account activity for member - initiated requests across all channels.    Responsibilities:  • Enhance the UI as per customer requirement which is developed in PS Framework  • Participated in designing of Use Case, Class Diagram and Sequence Diagram for various Engine components and used IBM Rational Rose for generating the UML notations  • Implemented different Design patterns like DAO, Singleton Pattern and MVC architectural design pattern of spring.  • Interacted with client in design and code review meetings.  • Developed Intranet Web Application using J2EE architecture, using Hibernate for database connectivity.  • Developed of Hibernate objects for data fetching for batch and front-end processing  • Implemented JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) along with Expression Language (EL).  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features.  • Responsible for coding with JSP for User interface and server validations.  • Wrote ANT Scripts for project build in UNIX environment.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Participated in User Acceptance Testing and issue resolution.    Technology Used: Java/J2EE, Spring-Hibernate integration framework, JSP, JSON, HTML, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, Web logic, Eclipse, Ajax, JQuery, Web Services, SOAP, Restful Software Engineer Thomson Reuters - New York, NY August 2010 to December 2010 Description: SEA is an entitlements application used to create the user who access Thomson one product.  SEA has the ability to process:  • Create new user (Athena Sub ID) requests  • Modifications to Existing Athena Sub IDs: Add/Delete of Add On Modules, Exchanges, Spec Data, etc.  • Move User between Subscribers that belong to the same Athena Company ID  • Cancellation of Athena Sub IDs  • Future Dated requests.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented the application system with Spring MVC.  • Used Hibernate framework and its caching mechanism to persist large amount of trade/order data with database.  • Used spring framework for dependency injection and integrated it with Hibernate.  • Involved in implementation of modules like accessing trade/order records from database, comparison of order/trade records and related classes using spring framework and Hibernate.  • Used Hibernate as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Wrote Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Database.  • Implemented Data validation, Form validation, Objects, for various web applications using, JQuery, HTML and CSS.  • Developed Data Access Objects to handle HQL queries using Hibernate and Transfer objects.  • Used Hibernate named queries to access data from Database.  • Involved in development of client side validation and event handling using JavaScript.  • Worked with RESTful web services in Model layer.  • Coordinated work with DB team, QA team, Business Analysts and Client Reps to complete the client requirements efficiently.  • Used Log4j for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  • Involved in module testing using JUnit.  • Used Maven to build and deploy the application.    Technology used:JDK 1.6, Spring MVC, Hibernate Annotations, SOA (RESTful), Multi-threading, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, Junit, JSON, JBoss, Eclipse, Apache Log4J, Maven, SVN. Software Engineer Thomson Reuters - Bangalore, Karnataka January 2008 to July 2010 Description: Management of TSA Account (MTSA) is a java based backend process which puts the SSO (Single Sign On) and entitlements info for a user on the Directory Services (DS) (for all the Athena users). It is running constantly in the background .It uses web services to get the user entitlement info from the second level systems like Guardian, Server, and Topas.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with Spring MVC for implementing MVC architectural design pattern.  • Designed Schema to store configuration and details of Data Sources  • Developed performance testing on file upload from multiple Data Sources.  • Used various Core Java concepts like Collection APIs, Exception Handling and Multi-Threading.  • Worked with Hibernate to interact with RDBMS.  • Used Eclipse IDE for development.  • Developed RESTful web services to get the data.  • Involved in configuration setting for Development, Test, and Production Environment.  • Developed JUnit Test Cases and subsequently performed Unit Testing of the various modules.  • Developed and executed test cases manually and compared the actual with expected results.  • Used Maven tool to build the application and to deploy the project.  • Worked on deadline driven environment with immediate future release cycles.    Technology used: JDK 1.6, Spring MVC, Hibernate Annotations, SOA (RESTful), Multi-threading, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, Junit, JSON, JBoss, Eclipse, Apache Log4J, Maven, SVN. Skills Java (8 years), Javascript (8 years), Spring (7 years), hibernate (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages/Technologies Java, JSP, JavaScript, XML. Development Tools Eclipse 3.2 ,SVN , Net beans  Web Tools/Frameworks Spring MVC, JSTL, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, JQuery, JDBC, ORM Others Oracle, SQL , Microsoft SQL Server 2008  App servers Tomcat , JBoss, IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic Web Service Technologies Apache Axis, CXF, WSDL, SOAP, REST, JMS, Active MQ  Scripting languages JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, AJAX, and JSP Platforms Windows, UNIX