Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - BLOCNETS, INC Cumming, GA Experienced Front-End Engineer with a demonstrated history of working in Banking, and Supply Chain industries.  Skilled in React and Angular framework.  In a continuous state of evolving, adapting and improving both personally and professionally. Work Experience Software Developer BLOCNETS, INC - Alpharetta, GA July 2018 to Present As a Software Developer, assumed the role of a UX Developer and Lead Full Web Stack  Developer during the company's first product release.    Achievements:  ? Established design-driven development for logistics and supply-chain software.  ? Developed UX wireframes in Material-UI with Sketch design toolkit.  ? Diagrammed software event traces and product documents with Lucidchart.  ? Provisional patented 1 USA computer-implemented inventions with the Hyperledger  Fabric blockchain, whilst participating in the production of 4 other patents.  ? Implemented the code base majority in the SPA, of the commercial enterprise SaaS using  React, Redux, and Node javascript.  ? On-boarded & mentored junior developers on style guidance, supply-chain management  business needs, and technical documentation.  ? Conducted live demo demonstrations for high stakes meetings to secure Series A funding  of $825k.  ? Established standard guidelines for the SDLC and ensured each phase of the SDLC  completed with proper documentation. Application Development Specialist ACCENTURE - Birmingham, AL May 2013 to July 2018 As a contracted Front-End Engineer at BBVA Compass, I performed the following:    ? Executed functional and technical support during the SDLC for the new Client Vista (Sales  and Service) banking platform.  ? Provided technical analysis during the SDLC for Client Vista.  ? Coded UI views for customer registration and maintenance, customer due diligence, and do not solicit information.  ? Worked with UX designers and UI developers by participating in structural designs, code  reviews, and walkthroughs.  ? Analyzed and fixed bugs found in both test environments and production environments.    As a contracted Alnova Front-End Developer at BBVA Compass, I performed the following:    ? Designed UX and developed UI views related to Total System Services (TSYS) addresses  for credit cards, credit card balance transfer, safe box, PIN pad integration, account  reconcilement plan, loans CD finance, customer due diligence, Military Lending Act (MLA), cross sell, among other sales and service products.  ? Conducted code deployment requests for test environments and production  environments.  ? Onboard new team members and mentored junior developers on institutional knowledge  for internal SDLCs. Software Engineer ACCENTURE March 2011 to April 2013 As a contracted Alnova Front-End Developer at BBVA Compass, I performed the following:    ? Translated functional specifications into UX designs and developed UI views for Loans:  account origination, inquiries, maintenance, monetary transactions, collaterals, insurance  and escrow, dealer loans, product and fee factory; and securitizations.  ? Wrote Java/HTML/XML logic for Alnova products.  ? Worked with UX designers and UI developers, wherein I participated in structural designs, code reviews, and walkthroughs.  ? Achieved test driven development by creating test plans and test data for unit tests.  ? Created documentation for the design efforts and development efforts.  ? Analyzed and fixed bugs found in both test environments and production environments. Associate Software Engineer ACCENTURE - Singapore November 2010 to February 2011 Associate Software Engineer ACCENTURE - PH May 2010 to November 2010 Education Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Communications Engineer in Electronics and Communications Engineer Saint Mary's University 2004 to 2009 Skills HTML (9 years), Javascript (9 years), Redux (1 year), CSS (9 years), AngularJS (2 years), UI (9 years), Front-End (9 years), ReactJS (1 year), Web Development (9 years), Core Banking (8 years), Git (3 years)