Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Independence, MO Work Experience Software Engineer Jackson County June 2019 to Present Help create and maintain applications used by various groups within the county.    Use C#, .NET, SQL, and any other technologies necessary to help them perform  their jobs. Coaching Manager University City of Independence - Independence, MO July 2017 to Present July 2017 - Present  Coaching Manager University    Technical Design/Support/Co-Owner  > Coaching Manager University teaches managers how to effectively coach their  employees to create more buy in and increase productivity.  > My role is to handle the technical aspects of the business. This includes creating  the content, posting it to the web, creating the website, enrolling students, etc. Application Developer UMB Bank N.A August 2013 to July 2017 Application Developer  > Worked on a variety of applications written in languages including C# .NET, SQL, DB2, VBA, and COBOL.  > C# applications including Electronic Banking web services, HSA Enrollment  website, and batch programs.  > Wrote VBA macros in order to automate previously manual processes in Excel.  Some of these were ran within batch C# applications running automatically with Zena. Some of these also involved transferring files between the mainframe and  distributed side using Cyberfusion and running those mainframe jobs  automatically using Zeke. Part of this work was done by an intern who I  directed. These saved the company approximately 30 man-hours per month.  > UMB provided training in COBOL and specifically a form called HOGAN, which is  a banking version of COBOL created by CSC. UMB is adding a web service  component of HOGAN called Celeriti, which is the project I'm mainly working  on. I was able to learn a new language that they don't teach in school (COBOL) while providing distributed experience to the mainframe team that they needed  for this project. Software Engineer Intern CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, MISSOURI June 2013 to August 2013 > Worked on the city website. This included everything from minor rearranging of icons on the page to creating a custom interactive small business  guide/questionnaire from scratch. Education Masters of Science in Software Engineering University of Missouri - Kansas City, MO June 2012 to July 2014 Bachelors of Science in Physics Washington University in St. Louis August 2009 to May 2012 Skills MYSQL, CSS, HTML 5, C# (4 years), .NET (4 years), SQL (4 years)