Software Engineer III <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer III Software Engineer III - Change Healthcare Fort Worth, TX Software Engineer dedicated to the continuous advancement of technology. Strengths include technical leadership, communication and application enhancement. Experienced in full project lifecycle from design to implementation to integration. Work Experience Software Engineer III Change Healthcare January 2018 to Present Refactored, modernized and re-architected an inherited monolithic legacy application  ? Migrated multiple legacy applications from on premise to AWS Cloud  ? Built and deployed Docker containers to break up monolithic app into microservices  ? Led the design and implementation of CI/CD in an outdated development cycle  ? Improved the development, build, and test environment for legacy Java / C++ products  ? Solutioned the design and architecture of multiple net new applications hosted in AWS  ? Implemented Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) as a standard  ? Designed fully automated integration tests within containers in the CI/CD process  ? Created compliance automation lambdas for EC2 management  ? Actively managed, automated and improved cloud infrastructure on AWS  ? Collaborated with various business units to drive direction and engineering goals  ? Participated in the full lifecycle development and support of new applications  ? Standardized code review / merge request process Developer T.G. Mercer - Spreadboss February 2017 to January 2018 Worked on a team of 4 people; 1 Solutions Architect, 1 QA, 1 Operations, 1 Developer  ? Migrated off legacy technology stack (C#) to a modern Java/Angular product.  ? Designed, coded, and tested key applications, modules and web services for the project  ? Created deployment tools to coordinate with Jenkins and Tomcat to allow continuous integration.  ? Hands on experience learning Apache Maven, Apache Ant, Angular 2/4, Typescript, Java Swing, JPA, Jersey, etc.  ? Continual management of the database schema/architecture  ? Assisted in designing Microservices Architecture Education Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University - Blacksburg, VA August 2012 to December 2016 Skills .NET, API, DOCKER, JAVASCRIPT, REACTJS, Linux, Java, Spring Certifications/Licenses AWS Solution Architect - Associate January 2019 to January 2021