Software Development Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Engineer Software Development Engineer - Paychex Rochester, NY Work Experience Software Development Engineer Paychex - Rochester, NY October 2017 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, and operate an application for core payroll system to generate client W2 tax return reports.  • Plan, Document and execute unit test scenario to ensure all code changes satisfy requirements.  • Developed T-SQL codes, stored procedures, views, functions for end users to update data.  • Developed an application using internal framework to retrieve data from Oracle database to generate updated spreadsheet for analysis.  • Wrote Junit test using mockito to increase code coverage for deployment.  • Used Eclipse IDE for code development and git for version control. software developer at Zurich Insurance Computer Sciences Corporation - Schaumburg, IL July 2014 to August 2017 This project covers both Family and General Line of Business. A workflow based application wherein the certificate traverses between various roles. The workflow can be described in simple terms start with data capturing, to underwriting and finally it goes for underwriting approval. This is pure J2EE project with MySQL using the LDAP as the Security tool. The Web part of the project was implemented in Struts and Business part was implemented in Spring and hibernate.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Used servlets and JSP for developing the application logic.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX to create web pages dynamically.  • Implemented Database connectivity with JDBC for communication between application and MySQL database.  • Involved in Normalization of Database and created stored procedures using PL/SQL.  • Implemented Unit test specification for checking inconsistent data types, overflow, and under-flow conditions.  • Coordinated with project management to understand client specifications.  • Set prioritization of module testing.  • Worked collaboratively with QA, development and business groups to complete new releases.  • Communicated with local and offshore team members to coordinate completion.    Developed an ASP.Net 4.0 web application  This Application was built with a 3-layer architecture model consisting of a Presentation layer (UI), Business Layer, and Data Access Layer (DAL). The Presentation layer consists of standard ASP.NET 4.0 web pages and user controls.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed the Data Access Layer (communicate between UI and database).  • Designed and generated PDF reports using PDFsharp&MigraDoc, an open source .Net library.  • Used Stored Procedures in SQL server to allow users to delete, update and change their answers.  • Performed system testing and deployed the application to Production servers (windows 2008 and IIS).  • Maintained source code using Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Received and interpreted product owner specifications.  • Created test cases for new product development.  • Continuously updated testing documentation. Education MS in Computer Science University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT December 2013 BS in Pharmacy Engineer Hubei University June 2011 Skills DATABASE (5 years), PL/SQL (5 years), Java (5 years), XML (2 years), Json (2 years), Git (5 years), Agile (3 years) Additional Information Software developer and QA engineer with strong programming skills, open source development experience with ability to effectively communicate with business users.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Versatile object oriented programming languages: Java (J2EE), C#, ASP.NET.  Experienced with software development Life Cycle with emphasis on Microsoft platform.  Proficient with development tools: Eclipse, Microsoft visual studio, Git, Agile, Jira.  Proficient with Database system: Oracle 11g, SQL server, MySQL, PL/SQL.  Proficient with Jira, Agile, Bitbucket  Expertise in J2EE frameworks JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, struts.  Project management skills.