Senior Software Engineering Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineering Senior Software Engineering - Qualifacts Inc Nashville, TN Work Experience Senior Software Engineering Qualifacts Inc - Nashville, TN May 2016 to Present Ful time Job)    Description:  QUALIFACTS delivers behavior healthcare solution that helps behavior health organization process business needs with fast and reliable system.    Responsibility:  • Work as a key role in the team as developer finish development task as well as involving architect discussion to finalize the development plan. (Actually I wanted to get more involved in the discussion even if something I am not think the right solution, but always good to hear, think, and give my own opinion. The best part of these kind of session is I could learn "Why" rather than just "Do")  • Utilize ReactJS, Redux as front-end technology, created multiple heavy pages which includes many functionality and resolved many technical difficulties.  • Utilized OAuth2 as security protocol using authentication code as grant type.  • Used Spring Boot as main frame work to code several domain that could provide service based on different functionality.  • Used Ibatis as ORM tool to query from database.  • Exposed to usage of Google cloud and openshit for environment information.  • Proved ability to learn new stuff fairly fast and mentor junior developers.  • Follow Scrum Agile methodology, help creating, analyzing, grooming stories  • Coordinating with different teams, both internal team and third part resources.  • Daily stand up and bi-weekly sprint.    Environment:  Spring, boot, Java 8, ReactJs, Redux, MongoDb, Vertica, Kafka, Java Doc, Scrum Agile etc. Software Engineer Medhost Inc - Franklin, TN August 2014 to May 2016 Franklin, TN Aug 17th 2014 - May 15th 2016  Software Engineering (Ful time Job)    Description:  MEDHOST delivers healthcare technology services that have enabled our Customers to maximize revenue capture, optimize administrative efficiency and better manage enterprise clinical capabilities.    This project is called YourCareUniverse, which provides solution that enable hospitals to create a loyal customer base and achieve unprecedented operational performance and efficiency. Solution includes healthcare engagement tools, analytics and interactions that drive loyalty and change.    Main sub-project I am working on is called YourCareInteract, which is a solution that leverages YourCareAnalytics, and integrates Saleforce, to create concise marketing campaigns to a hospital's patient population or community.    Responsibility:  • Started a micro-service from scratch by using Spring Boot.  • Utilize AngularJS, Bootstrap as front-end technology, provided an angular page and embedded as Iframe inside Salesforce UI.  • Utilize OAuth2 as security protocol, familiar with Resource Owner Password Credentials and Client Credentials grant type. Oauth2 is used when communicating with other micro-services endpoints as well as integrating with Salesforce.  • Used Spring ACL API to protect domain object due to permission requirement from business perspective.  • Used Spring JPA, designed entities and relationship between them. Used both named query and customized query.  • Due to system design changed a lot, utilized from Neo4J, Titan to Postgres database, then finally Elasticsearch.  • Utilized RabbitMq as messaging tool to handle request.  • Used Liquibase API to manage database operation.  • Wrote Java Doc on class and method level, and Swagger Doc for service endpoints.  • Deployed spring boot application on AWS using Docker, and configuration in TeamCity.  • Follow Scrum Agile methodology, help creating, analyzing, grooming stories. (Like "planning poker" a lot)  • Coordinating with different teams, both internal team and third part resources.  • Daily stand up and bi-weekly sprint.    Environment:  Spring, boot, Java 8, MVC, JPA, Log4J, JUnit4, ACL, OAuth2, Neo4J, Titan, Postgres, Elasticsearch, Liquibase,  Java Doc, AWS, Scrum Agile etc. Java Developer (Contractor Job) Maximus Inc - Albany, NY September 2013 to August 2014 Description:-  MAXIMUS plays a critical role in helping governments achieve their goals by providing essential services to the most vulnerable citizens in the communities. This is a team of more than 11,000 dedicated professionals across the United States, Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom and Saudi Arabia. Maximus helps foster economic development in the community by staffing all of our operations with local employees. Diverse team communicates in more than 120 languages, helping to eliminate barriers and reduce disparities to match citizens with the services they need.    This project is part of Obama-Care in NY State, as one of three forces which are working on New York Health Benefit Exchange (NYHBE), Maximus development team are focusing on handling paper application. Validation data before persisting, correction before data exchanging, UI deigning for Operation user to handle business are the main functionality and features in this project.    Responsibilities:  • Mainly worked on Web-service module based on SOAP, hands on experience using CXF framework and validation process. (bottom-top based on WSDL)  • Used Spring Framework throughout whole project.  • Used Ibatis technology to manipulating database operation based on SqlMap, familiar with flow of how to use Ibatis mapping file to do data mapping.  • Used JSF along with API such as PrimeFace etc as UI design. Defined Customized tags which have been highly used throughout the pages.  • Involved in creating and maintaining Oracle Database.  • Used Cron technology in Spring Framework on specified module to trigger some tasks automatically at specified time.  • Used Drool Engine technology to do soft validation in UI.  • Used JavaMail technology to automatically send emails to Dev Team or Users along with Cron Technology.  • Used log4j properties to catch all the JVM exceptions and send email to All Developers.  • Had highest control privilege of SVN in Development Team (of course below Tech Lead and ISG team), merge the code change and build new version every time.  • Used JIRA project tracking and management tool throughout the whole project.  • Involved in deployment in different environments (Integration, UserAcceptance, Regression, Production) and coordinating with QA to test, SA to analysis, and Infra Structure Group to deployment.  • Agile development environment with daily scrum.    Environment:  Spring, Ibatis, MVC, JavaBeans, Log4J, JUnit4, Oracle, JSF, HTML, CSS, Drool Engine, JavaScript Cron Technology. Internship DongHua Software Inc - Xi'An, CN January 2010 to August 2011 Description:-  DongHua Software Inc. was founded in 2001 with the major of application software development, computer information system integration and information technology service. The company offers the service to vary range of industry like telecommunication, government, transportation, medical department, financial department, etc.    Responsibilities:-  • Involved in service layer implementation using the Spring IOC in entire the project.  • Developing in J2EE using an MVC based architecture with help of Spring.  • Configured the deployment descriptors in Hibernate to achieve object relational mapping.  • Developed e-mail document dispatch component using JavaMail API.  • Performed regression testing, unit testing using JUnit Test.  • Implemented Log4J, debugging and tracking using loggers and appenders components.  • Used SVN for repository and version control for the System.  • Developed the user interfaces using HTML, JSP and Servlets.  • Gave the immediate solution for QA defects.    Environment:  Hibernate, Spring, Oracle, Eclipse, etc. Education MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ