Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Fresh Direct, NY New York, NY • Skilled and experienced UI developer with around 8 years in developing responsive and cross platform front-end web application.  • Hands on experience in creating and refreshing a site page utilizing AngularJS, Angular (2-  6), React JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery crosswise over different programs and consequently accomplishing cross program similarity.  • Proficiency in using DOM, AJAX, JSON, responsive web design, Bootstrap 4, for designing web sites.  • Extensive experience in developing software products using Methodologies such as Agile and  WaterfallModel.  • Experience with web development mark-up and scripting languages such as HTML5, jQuery, XML, JavaScript and XSLT.  • Have strong experience in Web Services using SOAP and Restful API'S which are well used for building the communication between two systems.  • Experience using Object Oriented concepts in enhancing the performance of websites related to AngularJS and Node JS.  • Strong experience in using debugging tool like Firebug, Chrome Developer tool and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Have a good experience in using JIRA Tool for Bug Tracking.  • Experienced with Wireframes for developing the layout and functionality on a page.  • Extensive experience in maintaining the source code and documentation by using CVS, SVN and GIT.  Experienced in using SQL, MySQL, Database Design, Storage Procedures, and triggers on using SQL Server.  • Experience in creating and utilizing components related to React JS and working with React  Flux architecture.  • Good experience in React.js for creating interactive UI'S using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, and React Native concepts.  • Experienced in developing React.js pages, web services and Ajax calls for the applications used in development of the web application to blind the data.  • Experience in creating Templates, Web Interfaces, Layouts, Prototypes with Adobe and Mock-Ups.  Strong understanding in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Testing Life  Cycle (STLC), and Methodologies like Waterfall and Agile/SCRUM.  • Have a good experience in utilizing AngularJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Scope content.  • Experience in Cross browser compatibility for implementing browsers like Safari, Firefox, Opera, IE and Chrome.  • Extensive experience in developing User Interface (UI) with MVC frameworks such as AngularJS, Node JS, and Ember JS.  • Experience in Unit/Integration Testing frameworks and libraries like Jasmine, Mocha and Karma for AngularJS and Node JS.  • Good comprehension of how node.js functions in the backend.  • Installing and Configuring and troubleshooting Linux Operating Systems.  • Knowledge with JS mobile frameworks like Native app using Native Script and Angular, React Native, Apache Cordova and Ionic.  • Experience in using Testing frameworks in Test Driven Development (TDD) such as Protractor, Cucumber, and Selenium.  • Used Test Driven Development (TDD) as part of Agile process.  • Experienced in implementing various jQuery UI Controls and corresponding Event Handlers  • Experience in using Responsive Web design with Media Queries, SASS and LESS.  • Strong communication skills for interacting with the team, outstanding problem solving, strong focus on teamwork, result oriented and data analysis skills.  • Extensive experience in interacting with clients/users to gather the user requirements.  • Easily adaptable to the work conditions and consistently deliver the quality work and Capable of adapting to new technologies and can face any new challenge that exist in the project. Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Fresh Direct, NY February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using HTML5, XHTML, CSS3 and Client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Creation of UI pages and custom components using JSP and spring.  • Work on WCAG 2.0 AA compliance audits for Accessibility.  • Support multiple Agile development teams in a highly collaborative environment to remediate existing web applications.  • Designed, developed and updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed Java classes implementing business logs.  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework Angular.JS.  • Developed XML file for all the new services and modify the XML file for existing services.  • Incorporated MVC design pattern use to clearly differentiate roles and responsibilities and also to make code maintenance easy.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM functions  • Used screen reader JAWS and NVDA for web applications and VOICEOVER for mobile applications.  • Provided training for internal team members to implement and maintain accessibility standards.  • Worked closely with QA team to write the test cases and run automation scripts.  • Created Responsive Web Design using CSS Bootstrap and Media Queries.  • Worked extensively on JavaScript to do validation and dynamic web pages.  • Resolved Cross Browser Compatible Issues for different version of IE, Safari, Chrome, Firefox and Opera.  • Worked on CSS to design the navigation, gradient background and used other style properties to enhance the look of the web page.  • Developed robust, responsive Ajax driven UIs with AJAX, CSS, DHTML, Angular.Js, React JS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validations and JavaScript and XHTML pages.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens.  • Used Grunt for automate the tasks like minifying, compilation, unit testing, checking JS errors.  • Used $http in AngularJS for consuming RESTful web services.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Bootstrap, Require.js, Node.js, AngularJs.  • Used React.js for creation of reusable UI components which presents data that change over time.  • Integrated the AngularJS application with the RESTful web services.  • Involved in consuming Restful APIs and processing JSON data for rendering in UI.  • Expertise in developing Rich Internet Application (RIA) using Adobe Flex and Action Script using Cairngorm Framework (MVC).  • Expertise in Server side development using Java, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans.  • Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Used JDBC to connect the J2EE server with the relational database.  • Worked on Mobile web pages for accessibility using voice over tool as screen reader.  • Performed accessibility audits on the web pages with WAVE tool accessibility issues.  • Wrote JQUERY function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application.  • Created unit test cases using JUnit.  • Used multiple in-built directives and APIs in AngularJS such as filters, root scope, child scope, Template, etc.  • Develop template level SOY files for reusing all over the web pages.  • Coded the front end components like JSP, Action and Action Forms and utility classes    Environment: HTML/HTML5, ECMA Script CSS/CSS3, JSP, SOY, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, MySQL, SVN, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Karma, Grunt, Bower, GIT, Agile. Sr. UI Developer Highmark BCBS - Pittsburgh, PA June 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Experience working in Agile following SCRUM process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings.  • Developed the front end of the application using HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, SASS, JSP, and JavaScript.  • Applied advanced HTML, JavaScript, CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces &components.  • Created interactive websites and website features using JavaScript and jQuery/ jQuery UI.  • Involved in the development of programming user interface design and front-end (HTML) for the web application using HTML, Typescript & CSS to the requirements of the client.  • Experience in working with Angular 2/4 modules, services, templates, directives, services and dependency injection to create a SPA.  • Hands on Experience on Angular CLI (Command line Interface).  • Updated the application with new features of Angular 4.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4 new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators.  • Designed and developed the application using Angular 2 framework along with HTML5, CSS3, Type Script, Java Script, Bootstrap, Node.js, NPM, Mongo DB.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript.  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency.  • Wrote page level code using JavaScript with Angular2 framework along with jQuery libraries.  • Integrating the Angular2Applicationinto AEM thereby enabling to build components.  • Used Components in Angular2 to build the application in many modules for better maintaining application over a period.  • Angular2 Components help to build the applications into many modules.  • Extensively used Angular JS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events&Injectors.  • Used NPM for installing required node modules and other published Angular NPM modules.  • Extensively used Bootstrap for making our web page responsive and attractive.  • Created optimized graphic websites and application interfaces using HTML5, CSS3.  • Developed, implemented and configured CMS solutions using AEM.  • Extensively used React.JS framework and integrating them to Node.js server-side code  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • In Phase Two, worked closely with the Back-End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  • Able to identify and address UX needs across programs.  • Use data and collaborate with analytic support to discover the best possible UX/UI.  • Preparing playtest sessions and gathering qualitative and quantitative feedback to optimize existing UX/UI designs and create new ones.  • Established UX design as the first stage of all Web and mobile application developments, instituting a user-centered design (UCD) approach.  • Migration of Existing Application to AWS cloud and used AWS services like EC2, S3, RDS, Cloudwatch and Cloud Front for promoting code in various environments.  • Knowledge in configuring Cloud platform such as VMs, Azure AD, Web Apps, DB's, Cloud Services, etc.  • Experienced on creating and managing Azure VM, VMware tools, Cloud Services, and Storages.  • Extensively used jQuery, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications.  • Used version control repository SVN and JIRA for resolving bugs/defects in application by coordinated with team members of the project to assure a positive outcome.  • Develop unit test using Karma. Also used strict patterns of RA team for testing with jasmine.  • Used Jasmine, Karma, Gulp, Grunt and NPM to build and test applications.  • Used Drools Decision table using excels sheets with a Spring MVC project.  • Used Jenkins for build Process to Generate Continuous Integration and Version Control by GIT.  • Used JMeter for stress testing,Selenium Web-Driver for testing the automation code.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, JIRA, AngularJS/ Angular 2, Ajax, JQuery, JSON, AEM,Node.js,SQL, Angular CLI, Visual studio code Sublime Text Editor,GIT,JSON, karma and Jasmine. Web/UI Developer Wyndham - Orlando, FL March 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including Mobile, Tablet, and Desktop.  • Created different site page formats utilizing HTML and CSS, Bootstrap with center around client experience and consistence to gauges.  • Handled the change of the current undertaking written in JavaScript/jQuery to AngularJS.  • Handled program similarity issues in HTML, CSS and JavaScript for IE, Firefox and Chrome.  • Involved in developing page layouts, navigation, and animation Buttons and Icons.  • Responsible for implementing user interface designs from UI specifications and product requirements.  • For creating line and pie charts we used High-charts third-party library, and for some complex visualizations we explored D3.js.  • Responsible for managing the code repository through source version control tool GIT.  • Involved in working with CSS3 Background, Positioning, Text, and CSS3 Border.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with the backend Java code, AJAX and  • JSON via REST web services and APIs.  • Responsible for developing business logic along with connecting the application to server with  • REST web services.  • Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers with Linux, WebLogic etc.  • Involved in using Agile/Scrum methodology of Software Development.  • Responsible in working with the AngularJS custom qualities for DOM controls.  • Worked with Spring MVC and Hibernate in the backend to assemble the business rationale.  • Wrote and expended Restful Web Service brings in both JSON and XML groups.  • Responsible for maintaining cross browser compatibility issues with Styles, Layouts and fixed bugs for supported platforms and browsers.  • Involved in co-ordination with Software Engineering teams for interactions between Mobile UI and back-end Staff.    Environment: HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, XML, JSON, LESS, Karma/Jasmine, Eclipse. Web/UI Developer Audible - Newark, NJ August 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and created intranet web applications utilizing Java, JavaScript and CSS.  • Involved in developing AngularJS services for reusable functionality.  • Developed front-end, cross-browser HTML/DHTML templates and all GUI features through  • HTML, CSS and jQuery.  • Responsible for deploying, designing and developing Cloud-based solution using core AWS  • Services.  • Maintained and developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages like HTML,  • CSS3 and JavaScript, with Jasmine framework.  • Responsible for coordinating with Business Analysts and after perfect analysis conducted feedback session.  • Involved in developing and designing the application using CSS3 and HTML5 achieved responsive layouts using Bootstrap grid system.  • Responsible for producing content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations, also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Involved in using JIRA tool for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  • In development of different styles used jQuery CSS selectors, toggles and hover functionality, ToolTip and Ajax Forms.  • In configuring web server plug-ins used Apache 2.2 for WebLogic application servers.  • Developed framework for templating and used Ember JS for Client-Side functionality.  • For maintaining the team in a proper way helped team members and provided technical assistance regarding client website, applications and user experiences.  • Performed application upgrades, patches, identities and troubleshoot bugs that involved  • Tuxedo, Tomcat and Apache.  • Used broadly AJAX idea of JavaScript utilizing the XML Http Request protest associate with outer administrations to send and get information in SOAP organize.  • Efficient in Using Configuring version controls like SVN, GIT.  • Analyzing the site movement and Search Engine Optimization.    Environment: AngularJS, LESS, AJAX, Apache, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, JIRA, Bootstrap, Jasmine, jQuery, AWS service, Emberjs, GIT. UI Developer Information Builders - New York, NY November 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing all the User Interface (UI) pages using AngularJS, HTML, DOM, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax.  • Involved in developing single page web application using JavaScript framework AngularJS.  • Designed and created webpages according to client's guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintained the website using HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Responsible for using CSS to change the styles to be used in future web layouts and debugging the errors with CSS.  • Involved in testing application on Internet Explorer and other browsers like Opera, Firefox, and Google chrome to achieve cross browser compatible issues.  • Responsible for converting Photoshop documents to table-less semantic XHTML, CSS and performed validations of XHTML and CSS (using Firebug, HTML Tidy, W3C validator).  • For handling Form submissions incorporated PERL scripts.  • Executed all the test cases and fixed bugs/issues that identified during the test cycles with respect to various devices.  • Involved in creating REST APIs by using NodeJS as backend, Express.JS as a Middleware, and  • MongoDB as Database.  • Responsible for gathering Design & Analysis of the Project Specifications, development and customization of the Application.  • Used Angular v1.6 and Angular materials as the front-end framework, with CSS, and HTML4 as the main programming languages.  • Used jQuery to navigate to different pages of application and create AJAX to handle asynchronous communication between client and server.  • Developed course video search system using jQuery with YouTube search APIs and implemented efficient paper search on Scottrade database.  • Used GIT for version control.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON, DOM, AJAX, Bootstrap, REST Web Service, GIT, XHTML, PERL, MongoDB, Express.js, Firefox, Opera. Software Developer Value Labs July 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating documents like Functional Specification and System Design based on  • Business Requirement document provided by business analyst.  • Involved in writing code through cross browser of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer, Firefox.  • Participated in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and  • Technical Help documents.  • Responsible for using IDE like JDeveloper to develop application and CVS for Version Control.  • Maintained and developed various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) by using  • Water fall Methodology.  • Wrote application level code to interact with APIs, web services using AJAX, JSON, and XML.  • Responsible for creating and executing Unit test cases using Jasmine and Juint.    • Involved in writing complex SQL queries by using joins, sub queries and later correlated sub queries to retrieve data from database.  • Created and Updated Database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, function, packages.  • Involved in developing various generic functions used JavaScript for validations also used  • SOAP UI for testing web services.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, jQuery, CSS and HTML.  • Created Classes, Methods for different functionalities and error handling, exception management features in the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to Git hub.  • Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Developed Web API using MVC framework for all business logic and exposed to the front-end interfaces    Environment: HTML, CSS, SDLC, JavaScript, jQuery, Usability testing, SOAP, SQL, CVS, AJAX, Water fall Methodology, Jasmine, Git, MVC. Education Bachelor's