Sr C++ Developer Sr C++ <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr C++ Developer - AAA Dearborn, MI • 8+ years of hands on experience in designing and developing the Real Time embedded Client/Server and multi-threaded applications using C/C++, Python.  • Experienced with full software development lifecycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database maintenance and agile methodologies.  • Experience in developing Web based and Client / Server applications on Windows platforms and Participated in Defect management and Reporting.  • Efficient in developing applications using C, C++ on Unix Platform.  • Extensive knowledge in memory management, auto pointers, pointer handling, callbacks, function pointers and Functions in C++/C.  • Experience with various source control tools like CVS, SVN and Git/Github.  • Experience with File System, Issue Tracking and Version Control with Enterprise Software tools like DevTrack & BugNet.  • Proficient in understanding business process scenarios and translating them into technical design for application development.  • Experience in implementing the applications under multiple OS platforms using corresponding APIs like Linux internal APIs and win32 APIs.  • Having knowledge on programming Languages C++, VC++, MFC, SYBASE.  • Good knowledge on UNIX Inter Process Communication like Pipes, Message queues, Shared memory and Semaphore etc.  • Used C++ STL containers, algorithms in the application  • Have good exposure in using the third party libraries like QT, Boost, RSA BSafe, WEBM, WSMAN etc. and integrate them in to the application.  • Good knowledge on Business support systems (BSS) uses to run its business operations towards customers.  • Performed Upgrade and Migration of Oracle databases from oracle 10g to 11g & 12c.  • Experience in Implementing FLASHBACK technology and its various features in Oracle 10g/11g.  • Experience in Debugging, Test Case Design and Defect Management  • Tracked down and fixed existing system bugs through code inspection and debugging with gdb.  • Conceptualized, designed and implemented Android mobile projects.  • Hands on experience in creating custom adapters and custom UI for list views, list activities, spinners and various other android widgets.  • Used JIRA, Bugzilla and other project management tools.  • Developed C++, SOAP web services on UNIX and Linux platforms using gsoap.  • Experience in using various COM smart pointers classes for memory access.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new knowledge. A person with multi-tasking and organizational skills and high ethical standards.  • Vast familiarity with UNIX/Linux environment, including shell scripting and system maintenance  • Worked on Unix Solaris, good exposure to UNIX system calls and Multithreading  • Expertise in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL, multithreading, data structures, IPC (TCP/IP socket programming), and design patterns.  • Experience on Boost C++ library which is used to capture and manipulate XML Schema  • Good presentation, customer support and trouble shooting skills & experience in providing 24x7 supports. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr C++ Developer AAA - Dearborn, MI March 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with users, business and exchanges to gather new requirements/enhancements, testing and final delivery of sub systems.  • Part of a development team to implement Equity Order Management system to accept orders from UI, FIX, send/route to Exchanges and other broker dealers and fill the trades in C++ on Unix and Linux platforms.  • Developed multithreaded cache offline program in C++ to support various UIs to deliver/process data for a scalable, high throughput, low latency applications.  • Used STL extensively to store data on Order history, accounts, securities, etc. for fast retrieval/update.  • Used various data structures and design patterns in applications like Singleton, Observer, Factory methods etc.  • Handled corporate action events to reflect the order price and currently implementing the tick size changes.  • Used C/C++ interface to retrieve/update info from/to the DB.  • Wrote various SQL stored procedures to compute several metrics like realized/unrealized gain/loss, etc. and other data manipulation.  • Used Python scripts to generate various reports like OATS, P&L, transaction history, user privileges, limit rules and commission schedule reports.  • Modified C++ programs to support compliance rule automation for many compliance rules for client accounts for both pre-and post-trade compliance purposes and manage leverage using many metrics like industry exposure, security type, long/short positions, currency / securities / options / futures, credit ratings etc.  • Analyze business and technical requirements, discuss with PMs and a team new features and implement them.  • Optimization and tuning of previous applications.  • Working on the development of a cloud based multi-media applications streaming platform using C++ and Java under Linux environment.  • Migration of databases from SQL Server 2010 to SQL Server 2012.  • Developed SOAP web services for order and trade related information to display on UI. Used proprietary MQ to subscribe to order and trade updates.  • Coded, tested business logic for UI in JavaScript, to validate user inputs, calling various web services for information retrieval and updates.  • Developed/enhanced as part of team to compute commission calculations based on commission rules and generate pdf reports.  • Used SVN and git/GitHub for source code control.    Environment: C/C++, Design Patterns, SQL, Python, Oracle 10g/9i, gdb, pdb, dbx, bash, ksh, Linux, POSIX, Threads, SVN, git, GitHub, OOAD, BOOST libraries, OpenGrok, Jira, TDD, PL/SQL. C++ Developer UBS - Jersey City, NJ April 2018 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  • Design / Implementation of pricing module (average swaps, basis swaps, swaptions, and caps/floors on commodity futures) in C++.  • Developed asynchronous event model for processing and tracking transactions using RabbitMQ.  • Designed, developed, and deployed new processes for sending trading events to downstream RISK applications.  • Designed, developed and implemented new classes and objects in C++ for handling various trade and clearing events.  • Utilized various object oriented techniques and implemented new logic for processing icelink events and Clearing messages.  • Modified & tested scalable, multithreaded, high throughput C++ programs.  • Modified existing multithreaded server infrastructure to push additional indicative information to downstream subscribers.  • Interacted with the Business users to capture the Business requirements and developed the Technical Design Documents (TDD's) for enhancements and QRT's.  • Developed C++ Trade Capture and processing application which is a single unified platform for booking and tracking Credit derivatives like CDSI, Single Name CDS, and Index Tranches, etc. using network/socket programming and multithreading concepts.  • Responsible for providing technology solutions to the credit risk management business (specifically commodity derivatives and FX options)  • Developed SOAP services in C++ for booking trades for derivative instruments and receiving orders from external interfaces like Sef, Icelink.  • Optimized design and code for high performance and fixed various bugs.  • Responsible for providing technology solutions to the equity business globally including design, development, maintenance, and user training of all vended and internally developed technologies.  • Developed new reports using Python to identify the sales margin overrides.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Developed native UI using JavaScript with event handlers and fetching data using SOAP interfaces.  • Involved in production support and providing hot fixes to the production issues.    Environment: C++, Python, gSOAP, XML/JSON, JavaScript, Design Patterns, STL, gdb, multi-threading, Sun Solaris, AIX, TDD, Linux. C/C++ Developer Comcast - Reston, VA January 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Did programming in C on UNIX platform to contribute to the software project, which automated customized design process.  • Did unit testing of programming projects.  • Wrote a program in C, which converted programmer's interface between two different types of database.  • Supported the integration of the core technology libraries into other user-friendly front-end applications.  • Wrote SQL statements in conjunction with embedded database library to use SYBASE relational database.  • Wrote a program in C, which parses computer logs and then displays the summary in automatically generated HTML files.  • Wrote a script in Perl, which in conjunction with version control system built a particular version of application.  • Contributed to make file project, which standardized all UNIX make files on the project.  • Wrote documentation for C programs written by myself and other programmers on the team.  • Worked on various Active Template Libraries (ATL) in various code optimization techniques.  • I was trained on the job in agile software practices and I am familiar with fundamental ideas of agile practice.  Environment: C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX, Linux, Shell Scripting, Sybase, Perl Scripting. C/C++ Developer Ernst & Young LLP - Cleveland, OH November 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed, tested programs in C, Pro*C, make files, Oracle (using TOAD, SQL developer), DBX debugger, SQL, PL/SQL on Unix platform, maintained under Source code control System (SCCS/VCTL) for various modules like claims, reference data, third-party liability (TPL).  • Created and deployed Unix shell scripts (KORN) to run the periodical jobs for claims engine, financial payments, reference data maintenance (rules engine), decision support systems (DSS), job scheduling using Autosys, Autosys database maintenance.  • Responsibilities on DRA (deficit reduction act) module development - worked on reference, claims writing programs in Pro*C, KSH shell scripts on UNIX, XML parsing, XSD changes.  • Technical lead responsibilities on Pro-DUR (Prospective - Drug Utilization Review) policies and new reports - developed in Pro*C, KSH shell scripts, Autosys jobs on Solaris UNIX, Source code control System (SCCS).  • Create and modify Python, UNIX shell scripts that load data from other systems into schemas for operational reporting.  • Facilitated integration and user acceptance testing data setup using .NET UI and SOAP servers - configured claims/benefits data for testing various payers.    Environment: C, Python, DBX debugger, STL, PL/ SQL, shell scripting, SOAP servers, TCP/IP, UDP, Autosys jobs on Solaris UNIX. Software Engineer Profund Infotech - IN January 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities  • Designed different modules using UML  • Coded business logic in C++, COM  • Designed GUI in eVC++, VC++  • Wrote Queries and Stored Procedures in SQL 2000  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC from Software Requirements Analysis Phase to Design, Development, Testing, Integration, Implementation (UAT & production) and Maintenance  • Implementing coding using 3-tier architecture according to coding standards  • Involved in integration of applications and maintained versions using VSS (Visual Source Safe)  • Created Proxy for Client Application using SvcUtil tools and used as Service Reference.  • Involved in all the Modules in designing and coding.  • Participated in analysis and designing of Oracle Exadata Server for infrastructure and related projects.  • Used Oracle 10g AWR & ADDM to monitor database activities and performance tuning.  • Have designed all the Master Pages and UI forms using AJAX, HTML and added CSS style sheets.  • Have written JavaScript for the validations in all UI forms  • Interact with Project managers and Business Analyst to resolve any issue in timely manner and keep everyone informed on the status of the project    Environment: C/C++, COM, Oracle 10g,VSS, AJAX, Java Script, SQL Server 2008 Software Engineer Ethon Healthcare Solutions Pvt Ltd September 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked with a team of developers to analyze project requirements and add functionality to existing C/C++ applications and SQL databases, such as reading in claims in different formats from different sources, checking for errors, and converting them into a standard format.  • Perform unit testing for existing interfaces.  • Work with QA team on new features testing and bug fixing.  • Reading existing source code in C++ to determine current programming logic.  • Working with SQL database including making enhancements to stored procedures.  • Work as a product client team developer on a variety of platforms including Windows, UNIX and Linux distribution using C/C++.  • Responsible for fixing problems wherever they are: product functionality; reliability, performance of product installation and update; network protocols. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering JNTU Bachelor's Skills C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, DJANGO, PYTHON, MATPLOTLIB, NUMPY, SCRIPTING, SVN, VISIO, XML, DB2, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, SQLITE, AIX, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, SOLARIS, SUN