Software Developer IIII <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> IIII Software Developer IIII - CACI, Inc Washington, DC An accomplished Information Technology and Computer Programming professional with 8 years of comprehensive experience in a multi-site, multi-host, networked environment. 4 years of hands-on .Net development using Agile methodology. Committed to solution-based results, which focuses on the customer while adhering to my core values of integrity and excellence. Possess a strong desire to expand my knowledge with cloud web services. Relocating to the DC Metro area, Maryland, Northern Virginia and ready to begin my next role. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer IIII CACI, Inc - Norfolk, VA June 2015 to Present • Software Developer on our Shipyard Maintenance and Logistics Information System (SMLIS) task supporting NAVSEA 04 PMO IT using object-oriented programming languages.  • Supporting primarily Oracle 12.2(or later) relational database applications .Net and Entity Framework  • Developing tasks utilizing C# ASP .NET 3.0 (or later), including the use of Angular JavaScript and JQuery on IIS server in Microsoft Visual Studios (MVC).  • Structured on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Agile Environment  • Convert webpages over to report using Crystal Report 2011  • Oversee the technologies, tools and techniques used within the team  • Work closely with other team leaders and development teams when necessary to create additional software that is cohesive.  • Ensure that projects are accurately estimated and delivered to schedule  • Ensure that all software developed within your team satisfies the business requirements as specified.  • Designs software solutions based upon SDD's ( Software Design Description) and perform bug fixes as recorded in HPALM defect Management system.  • Maintain and update application to improve application performance and new functionalities increasing capacity of the application  • Documents and software solution by developing comprehensive documentation, flow chart, layout, diagrams, charts, and code comment. Java Analyst/Programmer Norfolk State University - Norfolk, VA July 2013 to December 2014 • As a Programmer, assist in the development of a web-based ID management system using Java Server Faces Framework Java web applications with SQL databases using Hibernate.  • Collaborate with business analyst and developers to create innovative designs and streamline internal processes  • Provide work estimates to project manager, provide frequent status updates and track progress against the project work plan  • Use web-based tools to create and advance applications  • Perform upgrades to make software and systems more secure and efficient Software Programmer UNC Health Care - Chapel Hill, NC March 2009 to April 2013 • Improve and enhance an existing medical recorded based application programmed in C# and Angular JS in Microsoft Visual Studios (MVC). Improve multi-threading and database support and overall performance.  • Convert Crystal Reports to SQL Reporting Services (both SQL 2005 and SQL 2008 versions).  • Develop a comprehensive Statement of Work for rewrite of an Access 2003 application to an ASP.Net, SQL Server intranet application.  • Perform general maintenance and upgrades of the program application, including VBA programming enhancements and report modifications  • Provided refresh training in preparation for Go-Live  • Go-Live team member, deployed as needed to provide "elbow-to-elbow" support  • Provided advance support for Clinics for providers, nurses, and staff Education BS in Computer Science Norfolk State University - Norfolk, VA Skills Database, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Tools  MS Visual Studio (2015 2017), Toad (Oracle), HPALM (Defect Management), Angular JS, SQL Tracker, Xcode5, VDI, Citrix, Crystal Report, Git and GitHub, Microsoft (Words, Excel, PowerPoint), Sublime, Linux Command, PuTTy, PowerShell, Bootstrap, Microsoft Azure    Database Management  Oracle Database 11.x/12.x, SQL Server 08, MySQL    Languages  Java, XML, C++, C#, C, HTML, HTML5, PHP, JavaScript, Python, Object C, SQL, Swift    Additional Computer Science/IT professional experience will be provided upon request.