Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - TransCanada Inc Charleston, WV Over 7 years of professional experience in all facets of J2EE Application design and development, Web based applications with Object Oriented Technologies, production support and testing.  • Extensive experience in Analysis, Designing, Development, Implementation and Deployment of High-Performance, Scalable, Distributed Applications.  • Experienced working with UI Components such as JSP, JSF, HTML5, CSS, XML, XHTML, DHTML, AJAX and Java Script (JQuery and JSON), Angular JS, JSTL.  • Proficient at J2EE technologies such as Servlets, Enterprise Java beans, JDBC, JMS, JPA, ORM, and Web Services.  • Experienced with concepts of Threads, Collections framework and JAVA I/O packages.  • Hands on experience in using various design patterns such as Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Factory method and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Good working knowledge in JavaScript MVC frameworks, Spring MVC and Spring JDBC.  • Good knowledge working on various SPA(Single Page Applications) using AngularJS.  • Experienced in implementing business components as Session beans, DAO layer using Entity beans.  • Expertise in working with NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra. Worked with Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 8.0/9.0/10.0/10.5/11.0 and Toad.  • Experienced in writing PL/SQL procedures, Triggers in Oracle and Stored Procedures in DB2 and MySQL.  • Worked on different Application Servers like WebLogic, JBoss, Oracle Application Server and Web Server like Tomcat.  • Experienced in writing test cases, implement unit test classes using JUnit, involved in integration, automation testing using selenium web driver, executing User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Use of IDE like Eclipse, NetBeans, Sun ONE Studio, and Visual Source Safe and Erwin for Data base Scheme Design. Experienced in writing build scripts using Ant, used project management tools like Maven and integrated with Jenkins.  • Worked with different SDLC methodologies like Waterfall and Agile, TDD and SCRUM.  • Experienced in using source code change management and version control tools Subversion, CVS, Clear Case and SVN.  • Experience in working with Elastic search to implement full text search.  • Excellent and efficient Team Member with good planning and monitoring skills. Ability to work under stress and in meeting the schedules. Excellent Communication and Technical Document Writing skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer TransCanada Inc - Charleston, WV January 2015 to Present End to end development, testing, and production support are the key responsibilities I am dealing with in this position. Worked with a native customized application using wide varieties of integrated technologies that gave me hands on experience with Custom Java applications  The project involves creating, parsing and managing service orders using Hibernate, J2EE, JMS, Web Services and TDD as core development process.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the front-end applications and user interactive web pages using web technologies like HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Experience in using Data Access Objects (DAO), Business Delegate and Value Object patterns to increase the performance of the system.  • Used SAX and DOM parsers to parse incoming requests and exercise parsers with SOAP API.  • Designed, Developed and tested Message Driven Beans (MDB's) using JMS.  • Developed several Web Service stubs using SOAPUI, JAX-RPC, and WSDL.  • Developed, maintained and tested batch jobs in korn shell (ksh) on UNIX Systems.  • Hibernate/JPA and Spring-JDBC in data access layer to access and update information in Oracle11i.  • Perform distributed transactions between mainframe and Weblogic environments using enterprise java beans (Session/Entity).  • Develop, maintain, and test servlet based web applications and simple html clients.  • Designed and developed and tested JUNIT Test cases and extensively used Log4j for logging throughout the application.  • Involved in Software development life cycle (SDLC) of application from design phase to implementation phase, testing and Deployment phase.  • Created use cases, class diagrams, activity diagrams and collaboration diagrams in Rational Software Architecture.  • Designed the application as 3-tier architecture with extensive use of Object Oriented Programming techniques using Spring MVC.  • Implemented build scripts using MAVEN.  • Clear case technology was used for version controlling, experience in working with FTP.    Environment: Java EE6, Eclipse 3.x, Spring 2.5, JSP, XML, WSDL, SOAP, JavaScript, UML, Ant, Log4J, MAVEN, MVC, SDLC, Hibernate, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JUnit 4.0, SAX, DOM, JMS, HTML5, Oracle 11i, Linux, Scrum, WebLogic 10.3, SOAP and RESTful Web Services. Java Developer GE Oil and Gas Company - Oklahoma City, OK August 2014 to January 2015 Project Description:  This project deals with Implementation and maintenance of oil drilling equipment and well health maintenence, a Java UI application developed using Swing and JSP. This application is used by publishing companies, studios, or artists, enabling them to prepare and distribute any digital media center.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the Domain Knowledge for the Product, Requirements and Design Documents gathering.  • Preparing the Design Documents and analyzing the functional specifications.  • Worked on the spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Developed ANT scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server.  • Used Abates to populate the data from the Database.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • EJB components are deployed on the Web Logic.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC, Servlets and JSP pages for authentication.  • Responsible for developing GUI / user interfaces using JSP, CSS &DHTML.  • Designed and implemented database structure in MySQL Server.  • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  • Built CVS and XML file loaders and splitters for financial data.  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using JUnit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using Selenium.  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Used CVS for version controlling and JUnit for unit testing.  • Prepared statements are used for communication with MySQL database.  • Created files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool.  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components.  • Implemented Spring IOC for server side Java components.  • Implementing agile process by managing the daily SCRUM meeting.    Environment: Apache Tomcat server, Struts 2.x, JSTL, CSS, DB2, JSP, JDBC, EJB, RAD, J2EE, Java, UML, HTML, CSS, DHTML, ANT, JBOSS, JQuery, Servlets, JUnit, Log4j, JavaScript, J2EE Patterns, MySQL, MVC, CVS, XML, UI, Selenium, Eclipse, JIRA Bug Tracking, IOC, Agile, Java Applets, Swing. Java Developer AbbVie Inc - Chicago, IL November 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for development of the enhancement requests from the client.  • Developed web pages as per given wireframes using JSF and implemented business logic in service layer.  • Responsible for debugging and fixing the defects in the existing business solution.  • Responsible for writing SQL queries for querying databases to check data consistency.  • Utilized Core J2EE design patterns such as Singleton, Business Delegate, Session Façade.  • Developed user interface based on Spring MVC framework using JSTL and JSP for presentation layer.  • Used JQuery to implement front end validations.  • Developed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP) from scratch using top-down approach using Apache AXIS2.0 framework and responsible to build secure communication using HTTPS and LDAP Authentication.  • Involved in writing stubs to consume Web Services hosted by third party web systems and integrated it using Spring-CXF.  • processing hardware vendor requests to develop robust Windows drivers used by ATM applications  • Extensively used Hibernate/JPA and Spring-JDBC in data access layer to access and update information from Oracle database and have written HQL, Named and Native queries.  • Implemented Singleton class to load Custom XMLs with Native SQLs parsed using JAXB and loaded SQL to the map  • Used Spring Jackson API for mapping Java objects to JSON.    Environment: JDK 1.5, J2EE, MVC, Servlet, JSF, JSP, JSTL, Beans, XML, XSLT, JAXB, Spring 2.5, Apache AXIS2.0, Hibernate3.0, HTTP, LDAP, Oracle 11g, Ant, SOAP, WSDL, Tomcat 5.5x, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, JUnit 4.0, SQL, HQL. Java Developer Genesis Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN September 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:    • Involved in analysis design and development of Loan processing Application.  • Developed UI screens using JSP, HTML.  • Used Spring Framework in the application which is based on MVC architecture.  • Developed using Spring Framework for business logic at the middle tier.  • JMS is used for exchanging the information like Loan status report between the clients and banks.  • Designed and developed MDB that consumed the messages from the Java message queue.  • Experience in installing, configuring and deploying application on Web Logic Server.  • Developed DAO pattern to retrieve the data from database.  • Developed web services for sending and getting data from different applications.  • Used JDBC to access DB2,Oracle database for accessing customer information.    Environment: core Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, MVC, Servlets, JMS, EJB3.1, Spring, JUnit, PL/SQL, DAO, DB2,Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, Oracle 9i, Windows. Software Engineer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN July 2009 to August 2010 Project Description:  Cognizant Technology Solutions is global leader in providing business and technology services. This project mainly deals with the Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) released by firms. The purpose of this application is to administer the allocation strategy with which respective bookings against the concerned IPOs are determined. Whenever some new offerings are released in the market for public issuance, the users of this application can view their respective details from this application.    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in full software development life cycle starting from requirements gathering and performing Object Oriented Analysis.  • Designing the system and documenting Use Cases, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams utilizing UML and Rational Rose.  • Designed web pages using Struts framework, JSP, XML, JavaScript, HTML/ DHTML, Swing and CSS.  • Designing & prototyping various GUI components using HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed Session Beans to process requests from the user and used entity beans to retrieve and update customer information.  • Developed PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, Triggers for updating the databases.  • Used JBoss Application Server for deploying various components of application.  • Developed test strategies and cases. Performed testing using automated test tool WinRunner.    Environment: J2EE, Servlets 2.3, JSP 1.2, EJB 2.0, JDBC, JNDI, Struts, HTML/DHTML, UML, Rational Rose, Swing, CSS, JavaScript, PL/SQL, JBoss Application Server, JSP, XML, PostgreSQL, Eclipse, MS- Office 2000 Skills html (7 years), J2EE (7 years), Java (7 years), JDBC (7 years), JSP (7 years), J2EE (7 years), Spring (7 years), MVC (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Java, C++.  Web Technologies JSP, Servlets, JSON, Java Script, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, Web Services, AngularJS.  Application & Web Servers JBoss, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat.  Enterprise Technologies J2EE, EJBs, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, JSTL, Java Beans.    Operating Systems Windows, Linux, UNIX, Mac-OS.  IDEs Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans.  Databases Oracle, SQL, DB2, MySQL.  Markup Languages HTML, XHTML, XML, DHTML.  Build & Management Tools ANT, MAVEN, Log4J, Clear Case, Geo Tools, CVS, SVN.  Frameworks Struts, Hibernate, Spring.  Query Languages SQL, PL/SQL.