Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer - Southern Diabetic Supply Memphis, TN A team player, self-starter, and am able to independently handle complex tasks. My motto is: "three lines of code". Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Southern Diabetic Supply - Memphis, TN August 2018 to Present Description: Worked on a MVC Web Application written in C#.NET that captured order information and stored the captured data in a SQL Server backend. The development is Code First Entity Framework ORM using LINQ and SQL Server. Bootstrap, JavaScript, and CSS are used with C# Razor Views. Implementation of the JQuery Datatables API is used for reporting purposes with exporting features such as export to PDF, CSV, Excel, and Print formatting. This project replaced the legacy MS Access application and is now available as a web application and is able to be used in remote locations that were never able to be accessed before. The application has been successful in ease of use, accessibility, and responsive design which provides more productivity at a faster pace.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all the phases of SDLC including business process review for requirements, analysis, design, implementation, testing, deployment and maintenance.  ? Created initial CRUD Operations using EF Scaffolding in Visual Studio 2017.  ? Created UI using Bootstrap, HTML5, Razor, JavaScript, CSS3, and JQuery DataTables API  ? Extensively involved in writing Client-Side code using jQuery and AJAX to get JSON back.  ? Collaborating with Business Analyst, Quality Analyst and stakeholders for their inputs to evolve and enhance the features of the project.  ? Used SQL Server 2016 with SSIS and SSRS for Data Migration and Reporting  ? Involved in system requirements gathering, designing and prototyping.  ? Maintained Cross browser functionality and implemented Responsive Design using Bootstrap, jQuery and CSS3  ? Utilized ASP.NET MVC5, NETCore, C#, Reflection, The Unit of Work Design Pattern, and Entity Framework Code First  ? Use Test Driven Development - Arrange, Act, Assert - Red, Green, Refactor  ? Used project management tool SharePoint and MS Project to track the status of Sprint, maintain the backlog and creation of tasks.  ? Used MS Azure with continuous deployment and GIT for Source Control.    Environment: C# 7.0, .NET MVC5, NETCore, Bootstrap, MS Unit Testing, LINQ, Entity Framework Code First, SQL Server 2016 backend, GIT Senior Network Developer Ducks Unlimited Inc - Memphis, TN December 2017 to August 2018 Description: The Great Plains Region (GPR) Science Team Project is for the Ducks Unlimited Wetland Conservation Science Team which is a 3- Tier Architecture MVC5 ASP.NET application that tracks the GPR Science Team Projects that contain the Plots of lands donated or inherited by Ducks Unlimited for the conservation of wetlands and duck population. The application is totally responsive and used for the collection of data related to the plots of land and their many parcels that is associated with a landowner contact for each plot of land and parcels. The development is Code First Entity Framework ORM using LINQ and SQL Server. Bootstrap, JavaScript, and CSS are used with C# Razor Views. Implementation of the JQuery Datatables API is used for reporting purposes with exporting features such as export to PDF, CSV, Excel, and Print formatting. I have been involved with this project from the start through DEV to QA to Production. This project replaced the legacy MS Access application and is now available as a web application in five different regions and is able to be used in remote locations that were never able to be accessed before. The application has been successful in ease of use, accessibility, and responsive design which provides more productivity at a faster pace for the tracking of the GPR Science Team Projects. We use the Agile methodology approach to development. This project has been a great success. I also was responsible for some Sharepoint development as well in this position    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all the phases of SDLC including business process review for requirements, analysis, design, implementation, testing, deployment and maintenance.  ? Created initial CRUD Operations using EF Scaffolding in Visual Studio 2017.  ? Created UI using Bootstrap, HTML5, Razor, JavaScript, CSS3, and JQuery DataTables API  ? Extensively involved in writing Client-Side code using jQuery and AJAX to get JSON back.  ? Collaborating with Business Analyst, Quality Analyst and stakeholders for their inputs to evolve and enhance the features of the project.  ? Involved in system requirements gathering, designing and prototyping.  ? Maintained Cross browser functionality and implemented Responsive Design using Bootstrap, jQuery and CSS3  ? Utilized ASP.NET MVC5, C#, Reflection, The Unit of Work Design Pattern, and Entity Framework Code First  ? Used SQL Server 2016 with SSIS and SSRS for Data Migration and Reporting  ? Use Test Driven Development - Arrange, Act, Assert - Red, Green, Refactor  ? Used project management tool Sharepoint and MS Project to track the status of Sprint, maintain the backlog and creation of tasks.  ? Used MS Azure with continuous deployment and GIT for Source Control.    Environment: C# 7.0, .NET MVC5, Bootstrap, MS Unit Testing, LINQ, Entity Framework Code First, SQL Server 2016 backend, GIT Mobile and Web Developer Memphis, TN February 2015 to November 2017 Description: Android Applications written in Java and XML using IntelliJ Android Studio. Developed websites using best practices and WC3 coding standards. Development using C#, XML, HTML5, CSS3, ASP.NET, MVC, and web templates. Experience with Photoshop and Illustrator for branding purposes. Worked with MySQL databases. Use of SDLC in functional website design. This project consisted of multiple projects, but one main project was the Berclair Baptist Church Ministry Website development. This was an Agile project with many iterations and full use of the SDLC. This project was one that I was involved with from the ground up all the way from DEV to production and is active today and fully responsive for the use of the ministry. I was responsible for gathering the requirements, documentation, extraction of use cases, organization of functional flow, and coding, testing, upon successful testing then implementing, and finally moving to production. I was the team lead for the duration of this project.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all the phases of SDLC including business process review for requirements, analysis, design, implementation, testing, deployment and maintenance.  ? Created Proprietary Android applications written in Java and XML.  ? Created Websites using C#, HTML5, CSS3, MVC5 and Joomla, Dot Net Nuke and NOP Commerce.  ? Involved in system requirements gathering, designing and prototyping.  ? Maintained Cross browser functionality and implemented Responsive Design using Bootstrap, jQuery and CSS3  ? Utilized ASP.NET MVC, C# with Entity Framework.  ? Used Sharepoint to maintain requirement documents, Flow diagrams and Design Documents.  ? Supporting production deployments and Quality Analysis teams with system testing.  ? Used TFS as Source Control tool.    Environment: Java, XML, .NET MVC5, C# 6.0, some Joomla, Dot Net Nuke, and NOP Commerce, Bootstrap, Entity Framework, LINQ, SQL Server 2014, TFS Lead Developer Elite Deals Ecommerce - Memphis, TN August 2014 to January 2015 Description: Responsible for developing a proprietary console application written in VB.NET that pulled eCommerce website XML catalog files for inventory and parsed the XML data to SQL using ADO.NET which populated a MySQL database from the parsed XML data in order to update all inventory data changes and push them up to the database backend. This project fully automated the inventory tracking and updating process for three different eCommerce websites with data integrity throughout the application process. The application ran daily on a timer via a Powershell script. This streamlined the inventory process.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all the phases of SDLC including business process review for requirements, analysis, design, implementation, testing, deployment and maintenance.  ? Created Modules using VB.NET.  ? Created proprietary XML to SQL Parser.  ? Involved in system requirements gathering, designing and prototyping.  ? Supporting production deployments and Quality Analysis teams with system testing.  ? Fully documented each stage of the development process and created supporting documentation.  ? Fully Automated the inventory process for their eCommerce solutions.    Environment: VB.NET, XML, MySQL, ADO.NET Software Developer Southern Diabetic Supply - Memphis, TN June 2011 to August 2014 Description: Worked directly with the Director of Client Services on a Project to streamline the process of Diabetic Shoe Fitting by creating an Android application for Tablets to replace the paper and pen method of data collection for diabetic shoe fitting. The tablet application also prevented circumvention by eliminating the possibility of false data created by shoe fitters. The application required them to capture images of the patient's feet and enter the data in the tablet to be sent to the cloud in real time from the exact location specified. This was a proprietary Android application written in Java and XML. Use of SDLC, flowcharts, activity workflow diagrams and wireframes for development and the Graphical User Interfaces were used along with simple coding techniques for testing purposes.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing the shoe fitter application.  ? Worked with Business Analyst to prepare UI prototype for end user by providing them multiple options to choose from.  ? Implemented Background Worker threads for handling multiple processes.  ? Used MS Visio to create flow diagram of application.  ? Involved in database design using SQLLITE in Android Tablets.  ? Integrated with Third party API and Web Services to fetch the data from the Android Application.  ? Designed User Interfaces in Android XML using Eclipse ADT.  ? Analyze, review and modified code by designing, maintaining, documenting, testing, developing and monitoring.  ? Involved in deployment on QA and Production environment.    Environment: Eclipse ADT, Java and XML, .NET Web Interface for Android data retrieval, Use of MS Visio and MS Project, SQLLITE DB Education A.A.S in Application Development Programming Southwest Tennessee Community College A.A.S in Web Development Technology Southwest Tennessee Community College Skills .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Android studio, Api, C#, Docker, Git, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Jenkins, Razor, Orm, Xml, Database, Db2, Ms sql server, Sql server Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems Linux/Unix, Windows platforms 7/8/10, OSX  Servers Windows Server 2008 and 2012, Unix/Linux, IBM, Apache  Tools  Visual Studio, Oracle JDeveloper, Eclipse, IntelliJ Idea, Oracle NetBeans, SQL Server Management Studio, DB Artisan, IBM Data Studio Client, Remote into Servers    Cloud Technologies Citrix Web, some Jenkins, and Azure  .NET Technologies ASP.NET WebPages.aspx, .NET MVC4/5, .NETCore, C#.NET, Entity Framework, LINQ, ASMX Services  Java Technologies Java SE 8/9, Java Microservices, Oracle NetBeans IDE, Docker  Client-side Technologies JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery DataTables API, Briefly introduced to Node.js, AJAX, some Angular.js  SharePoint Consumed RESTful SharePoint Services. Worked on Ducks Unlimited intranet SharePoint site. Some exposure to JS Link  Joomla  Very familiar with this CMS, and can do just about anything with it when it comes to designing a website that can be easily managed from the backend by others with the appropriate privileges.    Android Development Wrote proprietary Android applications using IntelliJ Android Studio in Java and XML.  Analytical Ability Ability to use deductive reasoning and logic and problem solving to solve the toughest technical problems.  Communication  Excellent written and verbal skills. Communicates and/or understands instructions. Accurately informs supervisors and subordinates of important developments.    Databases T-SQL MS SQL Server 2014/2016/2017, IBM DB2, AS400, MySQL, and Oracle 11g  Web Technologies XML, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, XHTML, jQuery, AJAX, Razor  ORM Frameworks Entity Framework, LINQ to SQL, Code First Approach, and Database First Approach  Web Servers IIS, Citrix  Development Microsoft Visual Studio C# & VB (2010/2012/2013/2015/2017) IntelliJ Java  Version Controller TFS, VSTS, GIT  Methodologies Architecture Agile Development Methodology, Code First and Database First Approach, MVC 4/5, 3-Tier Architecture