Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Chillicothe, OH Work Experience Software Engineer Ohio Christian University - Circleville, OH June 2017 to Present Fulfilled the technical support needs of the university's employees by working along-side them to resolve  their hardware and software related issues.  • Creating new as well as editing existing API for current systems the university use, which reduced the workload of our network and servers.  • Worked as Team Lead in projects that required scaling the current code base to modern industry  standards.  • Created UI and UX focused applications that integrates with inhouse and external APIS. Lead PHP Developer Graphic Awakening - Wooster, OH December 2015 to January 2017 Created a simple fullstack php framework for the company to increase workflow and ease code  management.  • Created standard practices and incorporated off shelf tools to allow the company to grow its client base.  • Developed an automated system that ran nightly to add new users by consuming a soap api while removing those who are inactive from the database.  • Worked with a large MySQL database to migrate data over from an external data source without downtime. Lead Developer AllHeartMinistries - Plainfield, NJ August 2012 to March 2014 Fulfilled the technical needs to the organization through consulting the CEO about the best possible tools  for their project while keeping the intended user base in mind.  • Developed and implemented a solution based on the information gathered from the conversation as well  as the owner's ability to continually update content.  • Headed up testing of web application for cross browser compatibility. Education Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy The College of Wooster - Wooster, OH May 2017 Diploma Weequahic High School - Newark, NJ June 2012 Skills Desktop applications, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Typescript, Php, Python, Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Coldfusion, Css, Java, Problem solver Additional Information SKILLS  Technical:  Languages: SQL (10 years), PHP (10 years), HTML and CSS (10 years), JavaScript (10 years): vanilla, typescript,  some Node.js and Angular 2+, JAVA (6 years): creating desktop applications and games., Python(5 years,  ColdFusion( 3 years).    Database: MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server    Tools: Bootstrap, Git, GitHub and bitbucket, AngularsJS, Angular 2+, Kivy Module    Related Skills: Trained as a programmer with a heavy focus on programming concepts, not a language so that I can  apply these concepts to any language. Innovative, Leader, Collaborative, Self-motivated, Creative problem solver.