Business Intelligence Developer Business Intelligence <span class="hl">Developer</span> Business Intelligence Developer - SoundExchange.com Washington, DC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Intelligence Developer SoundExchange.com May 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Design, develop, unit test, deploy and maintain BI and analytical solutions (reports, analyses and dashboards) using Oracle OBIEE and Publisher • Design, develop, unit test, deploy and maintain OBIEE subject areas/RPDs • Work with Business Analysts to aid in the requirements analysis process • Create and keep up to date documentation of the processes, data flow and reports within Confluence • 3 Full cycle projects completion • Design and develop advanced chart types, rich data visualizations and complex calculations using Data Visualization Desktop (DVD) Solution Engineer/OBIEE City of Las Vegas, Las Vegas.gov December 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities: • Designed, develop, implement and support Business Intelligence solutions for different departments.  • Built analyze and tune SQL queries.  • Designed the Metadata using the BI Admin tool.  • Built Answers and Dashboards based on user requirements.  • Developed complex queries and procedures using SQL and Squirrel SQL for reports based on report specifications.  • Created mockup reports and dashboards for review by the business users.  • Set up security privileges for each subject area and dashboards according to user requirements.  • Created new System DSN (ODBC) for the Progress Database.  • Set up a Multiuser development environment and performed multiple repository patch merges during development.  • Designed and developed interactive navigational drill down reports in OBIEE Answers, requests variables and Intelligence dashboards using various reporting features and functionalities such as formulas, filters, charts, pivot tables.  • Created and executed test cases to validate the User Interface, Data and Design.  • Configured Agents to deliver targeted analytics content based on schedule to obtain weekly reports and send notification Alerts. Software/OBIEE Developer Spruce Finance, Texas December 2013 to December 2016 Education Bachelor of Science in Engineering LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY - Ruston, LA MBA in Finance PRAIRIE VIEW A&M UNIVERSITY - Prairie View, TX Skills Adobe Acrobat (Less than 1 year), AutoCAD (Less than 1 year), MS office (Less than 1 year), PL/SQL (Less than 1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows [ ]  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL  Tools: SQL*Plus, SQL Developer, TOAD, Squirrel SQL  Others: MS office, Adobe Acrobat, SQL Developer Data modeler, AutoCAD