Applic Applic Software Developer Columbus, OH A detail oriented, hard-working, military veteran seeks a career in the Software Development field Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Applic JMT - Columbus, OH October 2017 to January 2019 ·        Used the latest versions of AngularJS and Typescript to architect and create a form service application, while utilizing .Net Core’s REST services to communicate with SQL Server for the database purposes.  ·        Using modern Agile practices, I worked with the Project Managers, Business Analyst, and Quality Assurance Testers to have a continued process of daily scrum meetings.  Worked with a team of developers to produce a high-quality product for the clients while also being allowed to work independently to solve problems and find long lasting solutions.  Sotware Developer COMMANDAlkon, Inc - Columbus, OH December 2016 to September 2017 ?    Worked with a Quality Assurance point of contact every two weeks to gather requirements, discuss, record, and plan task work for two-week sprints.  ?    Maintained and diagnosed Visual Basic code and WinStudio Forms that is used in an Automated Batching System that annually revenues over 2 million dollars per year.  ?    Collaborate with developers to plan and implement product improvements using modern technologies such AngularJS, Html5, and Material design.  ?    Mentoring new interns on company coding standards and standard operating procedures fundamentals, by using peer-programming and word documentation to help the interns grasp what the Software Development Life Cycle is and used in the daily procedure.  ?    Ability to work independently on new technologies and implementing new technologies in a new product.  Software Developer AWH - Columbus, OH November 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities  Used modern technology such as AngularJS, Html5, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, SQL Server, Microsoft Visual Studio to write readable code for future developers to use.   Worked with a team to provide client deliverables in a timely manner while using the agile process.  Provided mentoring to newly hired apprentices     Skills Used  Leadership, knowledge, researching, communication, responsibility, Html, CSS, Javascript, AngularJS, SQL Server, Visual Studio, TFS, .Net, C#, Information System Coordinator Department of Defense - Quantico, VA September 2012 to April 2014 • Serves as liaison for automated data processing (ADP) systems, office machinery, and administrative requirements for access.  • Develops, establishes, updates and maintains office procedures and records/files to ensure effective and efficient operation of the center  • Provides guidance to supervisor and staff on computer assets and management, the administrative/procedural requirements, and the internal file maintenance/storage  • Assists in software training locating and selecting the appropriate guidelines/references  • Maintains project tracking system for all ADP equipment and suspense records/files for document control  • Ensures required reports are submitted within the established timeframe and in accordance with current regulations and procedures.  • Answers non-technical requests for software requirements and information such as status of reports  • Prepares a wide variety of recurring and some nonrecurring correspondences, reports.  • Composes routine non-technical correspondence, such as instructions on office procedures, request for information, requests for systems access, and letters of acknowledgement, notification, or office space access.  • Uses office administrative software to create, format, edit, and print a variety of letters reports and memos, and presentations.  • Maintains and control e-mail distribution lists  • Ensures timely and accurate support of Marines assigned to work at MCB Quantico IPAC, MCCDC billets at Dahlgren, VA, the Pentagon and students attending the Defense Mapping School at Fort Belvoir as well as thousands of student personnel attending Marine Corps University formal schools and training academies Administrative Specialist U.S. Marine Corps - Quantico, VA July 2009 to October 2012 • Taught professional military classes for all Marine ranks.  • Established, implemented, and enforced internal control procedures within the department in order to track, report, and administratively process all incoming correspondence and related documentation associated with or affecting the entitlements/personnel records of military members serviced by the Marine Corps Base Quantico Installation Personal Administration Center.  • Provided administrative assistance and expertise to over 50 commands and tenant activities both aboard MCB Quantico and abroad.  • Responsible for the training, accountability, counseling, mentorship, and professional development of junior personnel within the department.  • Monitored and tracked the training, accountability, and well-being of all junior Marines within the department while fostering an environment of professional development.  • Prepared and reviewed operational reports to ensure accuracy and efficiency.  • Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services including needs assessment techniques, quality service standards, alternative delivery systems, and customer satisfaction evaluation techniques.  • Team player; motivated those around me.  • Worked under pressure, multi-tasked, and met tight deadlines.  • Effectively managed the auditing, corrective action, and reporting process for over 6,000 Service Record Books (SRB's) and Officer Qualification Records (OQR's); while maintaining 100% accountability. Education IT Project Management Ashford University October 2015 to Present Associate in Software Development ITT Technical Institute-Columbus - Hilliard, OH 2014 to 2016 General Studies New River Community College 2008 General Studies Wytheville Community College Skills Visual Studio (4 years), Sql Server (4 years), HTML (4 years), CSS (4 years), Javascript (4 years), AngularJS (3 years), Ionic Framework (1 year), .NET (3 years), C# (4 years), Node.js, Git, HTML5 Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Lance Corporal October 2008 to October 2012 Additional Information Highlights of Qualifications  • The ability to work with a team or individually to find solutions to common and everyday problems.  • Able to guide, encourage, and motivate individuals to reach their goals.  • Superior performance award for past three years for excellence in customer service.  • Ability to make difficult decisions in stressful situations.  • 10 Point Veteran's Preference    Computer Skills  • Windows 2000, Windows NT, Windows XP, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft Access, Microsoft Visual Studio 2012 -2013, HTML, CSS JavaScript, AngularJS, Microsoft SQLServer 2008 - 2012.