Sr. Java Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Guitar Center Thousand Oaks, CA Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Guitar Center - Westlake Village, CA December 2017 to Present GC Studios scheduling project  The GC Studios Scheduling project is designed to provide a centralized scheduling system to be used by all GC Studio locations for the management of customer lessons and rehearsals,you will be able to create, optimize and manage GC Studios appointments, manage each of your rooms, and build instructor schedules within their set availability.  Responsibilities:  • Analyze the business requirements and to work on the project using Agile/Scrum Model.  • Responsible for developing spring based application-using Spring MVC, Restful Web Services.  • Analysis of different performance issue and fixed them.  • Optimization of the existing rules for better performance.  • Implemented the concurrency jobs to run multiple jobs at the same time.  • Implemented events to post the message on the queue using JMS and MQ.  • Develop Services using Rest API and JAX-WS Services  • Designed and coded the new functionalities using Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring OMR and Hibernate.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Implemented persistence layer using various features of Hibernate framework like HQL queries, Criteria, projections etc.  • Implemented the test cases to meet TDD development  • Carried out bug fixing by rigorous testing using JUnit test cases using mockito.  • Doing code review developed by other team members in team.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to Oracle Database.  • Lead offshore team and handle the complex problem by address business problems.    Environment:Core java 1.8, Spring IOC , Spring MVC,Spring Security, Hibernate,JMS, Node js,Angulat JS,Node JS , JSON, Quartz jobs, SVN JUnit, Mockito Maven, Jenkins, Oracle 10g, Tomcat,Eclipse,Linux and Windows. Sr. Software Developer Guitar Center - Westlake Village, CA November 2014 to November 2017 Clientling  Clienteling success is measured by improving sales associate productivity and overall customer loyalty.The Clienteling application is especially effective because it can interfacewith Relationship Marketing to coordinate store participation in centrallymanaged marketing initiatives. Marketers can now deploy targetedcampaigns that help Sales Associates in physical locations by providingthem with information and collateral. Combined with RelationshipMarketing, Clienteling becomes an intelligent application that can driveconsistent behavior and performance across bricks-and-mortar locations.  Responsibilities:  • Responsibilities to bug fix and maintain the application.  • Create the SQL queries based on the business requirement.  • Design and implementing the Enhancement to make the application more effective and easier to use.  • Preparing the test case and implement the same.  • Test the application performance and fix the hurdles if any.  • Load the production user-account data.  • Monitoring Clienteling Application, Clienteling scheduler the jobs and fix the bugs. Performance tuning of Hierarchy maintenance and table maintenance application using optimization techniques on memory management, connection management.  Environment:BlueMartine framwork, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, XSL, XSLT, WSDL, postman client, Log4J, JUnit, Mockito Maven, IntelliJ, Jenkins, ,MS SQL Server, JBoss Application Server,Linux and Windows. Sr. Software Developer Guitar Center - Westlake Village, CA June 2014 to October 2017 Used Pricing Engine  To create a Used Gear Pricing Engine that will overtime become a Redbook of Used Musical Instruments.  Create a pricing engine including a front end that can be leveraged in the existing UVM application by store associates to view average pricing of used gear primarily influenced by sales data. Sales data will be overridden by Admin set prices on select products  • To provide a consistent way for Store associates to estimate used gear price and maximize profits  • To increase the speed of Used gear acquisition through integration with Used Intake form.  • To improve margins and turns,By leverage GC Sales History with the ability to set cost and retail thresholds.  • To provide an option of hard coding by pricing thresholds and yield price modeling.  Responsibilities:  • Design and Implement the UI Screens using jsp.  • Configure the spring configuration files to setup the application.  • Code required business logic using spring framework and hibernate  • Design and Implement the code using Spring-MVC arch.  • Preparing the test case and implement the same.  • Prepare the Queries and Design and Implement the Entities using the Hibernate.  • Prepare the test cases and implement the same..  Environment:Core java 1.6, Java,Sring MVC, Spring Core, Hibernate,ReST full Services, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, XSL, XSLT, WSDL, postman client, Log4J, JUnit, Mockito Maven, IntelliJ, Jenkins, ,MS SQL Server, Tomat Application Server,Linux and Windows. Sr. Solutions Developer Home Depot - Atlanta, GA December 2013 to May 2014 MCT  The Marketing Connection project will centralize and streamline the merchants interface with advertising and marketing merchandising submissions. This will optimize Merchant time spent on these tasks. Additionally by moving approval to the Merchandising Marketing Managers (MMMs), we will eliminate Merchants' need to proof all aspects of an Ad/Off Shelf Merchandising Planner to gain time back time for other activities.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering, System Analysis, Design, Coding and Testing.  • Held meetings with system analysts for understanding requirements.  • Implementing code for coupling different modules and communication between different layers in project by using dependency injection concept in spring framework.  • Responsible for creating and modifying hibernate entity objects.  • Responsible for the design and development of the application framework for security module for assigning access rights using Spring framework.  • Implemented complex business logic by using all core java features.  • Implemented web services using RESTful Web services.  • Developed code for processing the files by using spring Batch framework.  • Responsible for application deployment in JBoss environment.  • Prepared JUnit test cases using mokito to unit test individual components.  Environment:Core Java 1.6, Spring Core, Spring MVC,Spring Batch framework,Spring Integration,Hibernate, JSP, JavaScript, Web Services (ReSTFul),JBoss application server,Jenkins, Eclipse, XML, XSLT,Jazz, Oracle 10g and window. Sr. Java Developer Home Depot - Atlanta, GA February 2013 to December 2013 PAMT  Provide an interface that will allow users to assign translation rules to the LOV values of IDM sourced attributes  Provide an interface that will allow users to identify an attribute as "Corporate". These corporate attributes can be a combination of IDM attributes and user defined attributes. Allow for a variable number of corporate attributes. Note: - currently defined as Brand, Color, Private Label, Price Band, Line Structure. Provide an interface that will allow users to translate the LOV values of IDM sourced attributes Ex. IDM values white, green, black translates to light, medium, dark Provide a process that will automatically associate corporate attributes to a categoryProvide a list of available IDM attributes that can be assigned to the category. These attributes will be determined by the attributes associated to the IDM categories relating to the department, class and subclass(es) defined to the PAMT categoryProvide a list of available user defined attributes that can be assigned to the category  Responsibilities:  • Responsibilities to design and Develop the UI.  • Create the sql queries based on the business requirement.  • Mapping of IDM Attribute to Category/Subclass attributes business logic implementations  • Merging and Transformation of IDM Attributes and Values business logic implementation.  • Support of Attribute Ranges and validate the data.  • Creation of User Defined (non-IDM) attributes and population of values  • Ability to define attribute groups  • Ability to see difference between UD and IDM Mapped values  • Conversion / Load of Assortment Planning Attributes  • Create Reports using POI.  Environment: Java 1.6, Restful, JSP, JQuery, HTML, CSS, Web services , XML, JBoss Application server,MS SQL Server, JMS, Junit, DBUnit, Eclipse ,Jenkins and Windows XP. Sr. Java Developer Saggezza - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2012 to January 2013 OPS-Tool  Operating Personal System is a Feature that helps managing company effectively in all aspect at one point. Managing Company project details like billability, non-billability, manager, team manager, team members under the project. Company Asset Details like Hardware, Software, Network, and Communication Details. Managing HR Details like Employee Information like Personal and Professional Details.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible of consume the Restful web services.  • Responsible of Spring MVC Design Concepts.  • Writing of Server side validation using spring validation.  • Involved in discussion with team to understand the requirements  Environment:Java, JSP, Spring, Spring Restful, Eclipse, Intellij, Apache Tomcat, Junit and Windows XP. Java Developer MyClassboard - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2011 to August 2012 HR and Payroll Management  The HR & Payroll management product is an feature that helps manage institutions most important asset: the staff Teacher and Staff recruitment. It contains Teacher and Staff recruitment, Leave management, Staff salary advance management, Salary/Pay slip generation, Staff salary bank reconciliation, Staff salary reports & forms generation. It supports multiple languages and locales simultaneously and It makes effective manage the staff recruitment and payroll management.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Presentation layer development using JSP.  • Writing POJOs for domain objects.  • Writing Entity for the Table.  • Involved in Spring MVC Design Concepts.  • Managing Transaction in spring.  • Unit testing for the application using Junit.  • Involved in discussions with team to understand the requirements  Environment:Java, J2EE, Oracle, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Junit and Windows XP. Sr. Java Developer MyClassboard - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to November 2011 Institutions Finance Management Software  Institutions Finance Management Software feature always keeps you informed about the financial health of your institution. It Contains Finance, Billing and Invoicing made easy, Create customized, flexible, detailed tuition plans, Efficient record-keeping and easy invoices, Budget management, Inventory Management made easy, Easily Generate Income Statements, Statistical reports and revenue forecasts.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP.  • Developed servlets for activating business processes.  • Involved in detailed design and writing core classes.  • Developed Servlets that translates interactions with the JSP pages.  • I was also involved in designed and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets and JDBC for administering and managing users and clients.  • The system was designed according to J2EE specifications. Servlets were used as a Front Controller gateway into the system. Helper classes were used to limit the business logic in the servlet. Business Logic was used to talk to the database and JSP along with HTML were used to control the client view.  • Performing Unit Testing.  Environment:Java, JSP, Servlets, Oracle, SVN, Eclipse, Tomcat and Windows XP. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Anna University 2010 Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, INTELLIJ IDEA Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/appesh Additional Information * Over 9 years strong experience in software development and integration of highly transactional and scalable applications using Java and J2EE Technologies.  * Over 1+ years experience on AWS Services.  * Outstanding experience in software developmentlife cycle from Requirment gathering,analysis,design,development, testing, maintenance and support of large mission critical data-driven systems.  * Good experience on domains like Retail and Financial Services.  * Experience in Agile Development Methodologies with Scrum.  * Extensive experience in developing applications using Java and J2EE technologies such as JDBC, Servlet , JSP,EJB, JMS, RMI and JNDI.  * Excellent knowledge and experience in Spring,Hibernate,ResFul WebServices.  * Experience in various Spring Modules such as Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring WS and Spring Integration.  * Expertise in developing Restful Web services (Publisher/Consumer) by using JAX-RS and Jersey frameworks.  * Working experience on building Restful modules/application using API Gateway,AWS Lambda functions to trigger various AWS resources.  * Good working knowledge on Front End technologies like JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Node JS.  * Good working experience working with search platform like Solr,Lucene  * Good working experience with Jboss 4.x, 7.x, 8.X and Tomcat 7.xapplication servers.  * Experience in performing unit testing using Junit, MockIto.  * Familiar with Continuous delivery and continuous integration (CD/ CI) and SCM tools such as SVN, Git, Jenkins.  * Expertise in Code quality & code coverage by using PMD, SONAR, and Cobertura plug-in integrates with Eclipse, IntelliJ.  * Good working knowledge on Database Design using RDBMS and expertise with database servers like Oracle, MSSQL Server, My SQL - SQL , Triggers, Sequences, Indexes and Views.  * Excellent Analytical and Problem-Solving skills coupled with effective communication and interpersonal Skills.  * Excellent Customer interaction skills, Small Team leading and project coordination skills with onsite/offshore model.  * Enhance and maintain existing application software, continually providing support for internally developed applications  * Assist the production support team in defect analysis.  * Worked on Operating Systems Windows 98/2000 /XP,LINUX and UNIX.    Technical Skills  Languages: Java, C/C++, HTML.  J2EE technologies: JSP, JDBC, JNDI, Java beans and Web services  Web services: WSDLAX-RPC, JAXB  Messaging technologies: JMS, ActiveMQ  XML technologies: XML, XSLT, DTD, Schema, XML DOM  AWS Technologies: Lambda,API Gateway,S3.  Data bases: Oracle 10g/9i/8i,12c, SQL Server 2000  IDE tools: Eclipse 3.x, STS, IntelliJ IDEA.  SQL Editors: Oracle SQL Developer.  Servers: JBOSS and Apache Tomcat 8.  Framework: J2EE, Spring.  ORM technologies: Hibernate.  Version control: CVS, SVN,Jazz and Git  Bug tracking tools: Isupport and JIRA  Operating systems: Windows 95/98/2000/XP, Linux, Unix  Reports and Tools: Jasper reports and iReport