Product Manager Product Manager Solution Architect/Product Manager Milpitas, CA Product Manager with 8 years of experience in software development in C#, java, c++, web and mobile technologies. Experienced in designing solutions for customers. Work Experience Product Manager Atheer - Santa Clara, CA May 2019 to Present Product solutions/Professional Service -- Presales 8x8 - San Jose, CA September 2018 to Present 8x8 - San Jose, CA  September 2018 to Present  Working as a Professional Services/Product solutions in the PreSales phase. Work on delivering proof of concept(POC).  . Managing product customizations, providing solutions to customer requirements and managing  product roadmap in post sales.  . RESTFUL API expert  • Understand the customer requirements and deliverables to create a comprehensive Statement of Work (SOW)  Successfully deliver major customer's customization and implementation in record time.  Code Reviews.  • Create and deliver detailed and professional level documentation  • Support internal departments across the organization as resource and Subject Matter Expert (SME)  • Work collaboratively with customers on projects providing change management support, facilitating  sound decision making process, reviewing various options and considerations in system design,  providing insight into pros and cons of options, etc.  • Create innovative professional service solutions by collaborating with engineering, product manager,  customers and other stakeholders.  • Streamline professional service sales process and create tools to enable Sales to sell professional  services and deliver results that meet customer's expectation.  . Aid the sales team with Integration (Technical resource on a call: API)  Any and all items to get a deal across the finish line.  Implement a custom integration layer using the RESTFUL API to achieve a call flow logic. Software Developer NET MVC - San Diego, CA April 2016 to April 2017 • Design and implement customer specific software solutions  • Implemented internationalized web to print management portal using ASP.NET MVC 4, c#, Angular.js,  JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  Updated customer facing portal with Azure Search interface. This allowed portal users to execute  faceted product searches multiple predefined and customer defined facets.  • Search functionality is implemented using Angular and MS Azure Search cloud services. Software Engineer Microsoft acquired Nokia - San Diego, CA April 2014 to September 2014 Designed, implemented and tested Windows tablet (Microsoft Surface) Applications using MVVM,  WPF, .NET and C# technologies.  • Worked on bug fixes. Software Engineer NOKIA Research and Development - San Diego, CA May 2012 to April 2014 Designed, implemented and tested Windows Application using WPF, .NET and C# technologies. Also  used MVVM design pattern in the project.  • Part of Personal Content Management (PCM) team, which develops photo and video content  management app for Nokia tablet 2520.  • Designed and implemented video playback feature for photos and videos app for Nokia phone.  • Implemented cut/copy/paste functionality for local and sky drive contents for Nokia phones.  • Implemented search functionality for Nokia photos and videos.  • Designed and implemented retrieving of photo and video metadata to the PCM app.  • Implemented design pattern to retrieve user's media content from local, SkyDrive and Facebook.  • Worked on a WinJS windows tablet application to create a mobile operator notification application.  • Also worked on DirectX to develop drawing API for "Nokia Create" application, this API allows the Nokia Create user to draw on to a canvas using various drawing tools, manages images and edits, also  has few features like lasso, undo redo etc. Most of the coding was in C++ language.  • Worked on bug fixes. Senior Software Engineer BANK OF AMERICA - Mumbai, Maharashtra December 2006 to October 2009 • Developed Web applications using Client-Server architecture including Internet technologies.  • Worked on C#. NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET with MS-SQl Server and ASP, used AS400 as backend.  • Awarded twice with "Magic Carpet Award" for Superior Achievement by onsite  • Won "Best Employee of the Quarter" award. Education M.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science San Diego State University - San Diego, CA May 2014 B.E. in Electronics and Telecommunications Engineering in Business Analysis Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2006