Software Developer/ Business Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Business Lead Software Developer/ Business Lead - STOPSO Moncks Corner, SC Work Experience Software Developer/ Business Lead STOPSO - N Charleston, SC 2018 to Present Perform UI/UX development on Government Contract to include working with Angular 7, Typescript, JavaScript, HTML, CSS3, and Material 2. In addition to development I  provide business lead duties to include customer relations and demo presentation. CTO/ Developer Stiletto LLC - Moncks Corner, SC 2014 to 2018 Manage technology operations and provides oversight to current and previous  development projects. Advise clients and executives on the current cyber trends and possible threats that may cause loss of revenue and could breach IP security. Develop  threat analysis plans, and development project milestones and goals for teams and contractors. Spearheads the development and implementations of "impossible"  projects. Provides customer service that enables the client to obtain a better  understanding of their product and promotes continual learning during the life cycle of the software or project.    Results:  • Over 50+ custom applications, websites, and threat analysis plans.  • 0% of security breaches to companies Intellectual Property.  • Helped clients obtain at least 120% return on investment on their projects and development. Intern / Programmer Stiletto LLC 2010 to 2013 As a software developer for Stiletto LLC, I was encouraged to broaden my software  development understanding. Since no project was ever the same nor the same  language used it was quintessential to be versed in a pleather of software language.  This language includes but not limited to Java, Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, and .NET.    Results:  • Enhanced Stiletto LLC development department by helping implement new projects  and feature that was previously unavailable.  • Worked with developers to supply beta testing and custom code solutions. Education BS in Computer Science in Computer Science Charleston Southern University - N Charleston, SC 2018 AS in Computer Programing in Software Development Trident Technical College - N Charleston, SC 2016 Skills Program management (5 years), Front end UI/ UX (9 years), Java (7 years), C# (2 years), .Net (1 year), Material 2 (2 years), GitHub (9 years), Javascript (9 years), Agile (5 years), JSON (3 years), HTML (10+ years), JIRA (3 years), Management (5 years) Military Service Branch: USAF Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 July 2001 to January 2008 Combat Search and Rescue Loadmaster