Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - Zonar Systems Mountlake Terrace, WA Work Experience Android Developer Zonar Systems - Seattle, WA February 2016 to Present Started as QA Analyst, redeveloped whole manual testing process and automated it. Learned NodeJS and wrote a framework using Nightwatch for testing. Then integrated this tool into Jenkins build process. Got  promoted to developer. Software Engineers and QA still use this tool on a regular basis  • Got hands dirty with working with 300K lines of legacy code for app that tracks driver's activity. Replaced  SQLite database with Realm and introduced Roboelectric to the project. Read more than hundred pages of rules in truck driving industry for the correct app functionality. Successfully released the application with all the required features and bugs fixed.  • Adapted the launcher app that was built in 2011 with lack of documentation to modern Samsung devices.  Created from the scratch more than 100 layouts and replaced obsolete libraries with new ones (Dagger2, Butterknife, Auth0). Worked with hardware team to use Bluetooth, not wires. Integrated and adapted old  company's applications to a new launcher. Replaced obsolete tablet-controlling system with a new one  (SOTI), then wrote extensive documentation about it. And had to maintain old code for a device, fix bugs and adapt to customer's requirements  • Developed the app that checks status of school buses from planning to deployment. Worked with contracting  company, reviewed their work and addressed the issues Lab Test Engineer Microsoft - Seattle, WA July 2015 to November 2015 project got canceled)  • Worked with machine-learning team for video input and tested their code  • Created five test cycles including 700 test cases for web and mobile versions of the product  • Created a system of scheduled tests that helped to all team members  • Wrote a wide variety of different parsers and data extractors Software Engineer Seattle, WA May 2015 to July 2015 Designed login system based on Hibernate database using Salt for password encryption and GWT for user  interface with using the Test Driven Development process using Cucumber and JUnit tests.  • Transferred JIRA and Confluence to AWS servers. Software Engineering Intern Bellmont Cabinet Company - Sumner, WA June 2014 to August 2014 • Created two distinct EDI templates that saved the company over $5300 a month  • Automated paper forms and process flow in the office  • Corrected over 6,000 lines of Python code, fixed several major errors, optimized algorithms and provided  additional comments and documentation Education B.S. in Computer Science Systems in Mobile Engineering University of Washington - Tacoma, WA September 2012 to April 2015 Skills Android, Android studio, C#, Git, Javascript, Jenkins, Svn, Sqlite, Java, Version control, Android Sdk, Framework Additional Information Skills   Programming Java, Javascript, C#, NodeJS  IDEs Unity, SOTI, Jenkins, Android Studio  Mobile Robolectric, Espresso, Realm SQLite  Version Control SVN, Git