Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Woburn, MA • Over 8 years of Software Development(Front-End/UI) experience in Design, Development,  Implementation and testing of Web-based applications and Client-Server applications in the Presentation  Layer. On the top of the latest trends and technologies. Ability to improvise, troubleshoot, take  ownership. Tremendous skill at employing common UI Design Patterns.  • Expert level skills in UI (User Interface) application development using HTML4.0/5, XHTML,  CSS2/CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Java, JSP, JDBC, Servlets, Restful Web service.  • Excellent in building Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS framework.  • Expertise in Twitter Bootstrap framework and building responsive website for different devices, such  as desktop, laptop, mobile, and iPad.  • Extensive experience in Spring MVC (Java) frameworks using Struts, Hibernate and Spring.  • Experience in DataBase development and implementation using different RDBMS such as Microsoft  Access, Mongodb, SQL Server, Oracle and MySQL.  • Strong experience in Version Control tools GIT and SVN.  • Strong experience in AWS services (VPC, AZ, EC2, Subnets, EBS, S3, ELB, Autoscaling,  terraform, cloudformation, Cloudwatch, IAM, Security Group).  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like  Safari, Google chrome, Internet Explorer, Mozilla and Firefox.  • Well knowledge of Object Oriented Programming (OOP).  • Strong communication, problem-solving, and planning skills, work independently or in a team.  • Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Prepared various documents required for the project to comply with the CMM processes including  design documents, configuration mgmt, traceability, test plans, etc.  • Solid organizational, project and team management skills, Reliable, motivated, hard-working, and  attentive to details. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Netbrain Technologies, Inc. - Burlington, MA January 2016 to Present Netbrain IE    NetBrain IE is the market leader for network automation. Its adaptive network automation platform  provides network engineers with dynamic visibility across their hybrid networks and automation for key  tasks across their IT workflows. Nebtrain IE can automate network documentation, accelerate  troubleshooting, and strengthen network security - while integrating with a rich ecosystem of partners.    Responsibilities:  • Participating in design, development, testing and maintenance phase of Netbrain IE 7.0, 7.1 and 8.0.  • Analyzing technical design and enforced implementation, delivered interaction designs, templates and prototypes (mockups), guided by user experience best practices.  • Built the UI components using Angularjs, Angular7, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS3.  • Involved in the developing functions for data from the API server using C# and Java.  • Developed and designed new cross-browser accessible interfaces by JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angularjs.  •Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website that fits all users and devices.  • Involved coding using JavaScript and AngularJS to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  • Used AngularJS and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test.  • Developed the application by Spring MVC (Java).  • Involved in configuring Mongodb connection pooling to access the database server.  • Involved in the Performance tuning of the database, table integrity and referential integrity for the backend Mongodb.    Project B: Cloud POC (Devops in AWS)  Cloud POC is SAAS environment that the Netbrain IE deployed in AWS, and all of the customers can  share the same environment to hold their own account. Cloud POC is built and deployed by Cloudformation, the environment meets the standard security standard. All of the instances (EC2) are  maintained by AutoScaling, all database data are backed up every day.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Cloud POC architecture.  • Analyzing technical risks and potential issues in AWS.  • Built the Backup and disaster recovery policy via AWS S3.  • Involved in the developing isolation design for VPC, AZ, Subnets, IAM, Security Group, ELB.  • Implemented EC2 security by AutoScaling, CloudWatch.  • Used S3 policy to backup and disaster recovery Mongodb Data.  • Developed the whole deployment script using CloudFormation and terrafrom.  • Tested and verified the cloud POC end to end.  Environment:    AngularJS, Angular7, Bootstrap, Maven, Apache tomcat , Spring MVC, JavaScript , HTML5,CSS3, jQuery, Mongodb, AWS, VPC, Subnets, EC2, ELB, AZ, CloudWatch, AutoScaling, IAM, S3, EBS, GIT,  Ajax, JSON, SVN, JDK, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC. UI Developer Verizon - Waltham, MA January 2015 to December 2015 Project: VISP (Verizon Internet Service Provider)    VISP is a high-speed and reliable platform to allow you to check everything you want (conversion rate, notification, visits, cost based on location and time, trends, difference among operation systems and  browsers and so on). Besides the built-in widgets, the customers also can add their own widgets.    Responsibilities:  • Participating in design, development, testing and maintenance phase of software development life cycle  with project manager.  • Analyzing technical design and enforced implementation, delivered interaction designs, templates and prototypes (mockups), guided by user experience best practices.  • Built the UI components using Angularjs, HTML5, JavaScript, FusionCharts, JQuery and CSS3.  • Involved in the developing functions to acquire data from the API server using AJAX  • Developed and designed new cross-browser accessible interfaces by JavaScript, Bootstrap.  •Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website that fits all users and devices from desktop to tablet.  • Involved writing coding using Java, JavaScript and AngularJS to generate dynamic web pages.  • Used AngularJS and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test.  • Developed the application by Spring MVC (Java).  • Wrote SQL and implemented ORM using Hibernate.  • Involved in configuring JDBC connection pooling to access the database server.  • Involved in the enhancement of Servlets, which interact with the database.  • Involved in the Performance tuning of the database, table integrity and referential integrity for the backend SQL Server.  • Developed business modules using Hibernate and Spring Framework technologies.  • Used SVN for software version control.  • Day to day tasks related to website maintenance such as updating the content, updating the look and feel    Environment:  AngularJS, Bootstrap, Maven, Apache tomcat , Spring MVC, HTML4.0/5, CSS2/CSS3, jQuery, FusionChart, GIT, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, SVN, JDK, J2EE, Struts, , Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, JSP,  Servlets, MySql. Software Engineer Devisoft Inc - Parsippany, NJ January 2014 to December 2014 Project: ERM (Enterprise Risk Management)    ERM is designed primarily to meet the organization's requirements for risk evaluation. It is a simple, lightweight, clean and well organized application that is easy for client to access and design their own  risk evaluation system, which shows automatically the entire lists of risks (including picking up, sorting, displaying by Heat Map). For the same risk, it will be have different danger level in different departments or organizations. Designed and coded the application front-end using Ext.js, ootstrap and AngularJS.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the front-end components using AngularJS, Ext.js Framework that leverages classical  Model View Control (MVC) architecture.  • Designed User Interface using with HTML5, XML, JQuery and CSS3.  • Involved writing coding using Java, JavaScript and AngularJS to generate web pages and web  content.  • Developing a dynamic webpages by using Bootstrap and media queries to optimize website  performance and improve customer experiences; also, new website enable cross-browsers compatibilities for Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Chrome and Safari via CSS and JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test.  • Used AJAX control to retrieve the data from the server without interfering the display and behaviors of existing page.  • Performed database operations on SQL server 2008 to create and maintain customers information by creating SQL queries, stored procedures, functions, and views.  • Established a client management system to maintain excellent relationship and was being adopted into procedure.  • Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Developed business modules using Hibernate and Spring Framework technologies.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs.  • Used SVN for software version control.  • Provided technical expertise and knowledge to clients and system team.  • Involved in most of development life cycle (SDLC) that follows Agile methodology.    Environment: Web Developer AngularJS, Bootstrap, Spring MVC - Beijing, CN June 2011 to June 2012 AngularJS, Bootstrap, Spring MVC, HTML4.0/5, CSS2/CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, SVN, JDK, J2EE, Struts, tomcat, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, SQL Server.  (4) Client: ARIM , Beijing, China 06/2011-06/2012  Role: Web Developer  Project: Questionnaire Survey Project    The Application is patient-oriented project to evaluate their basic physical condition, which including  around 160 medical questions. I utilized the MVC structure to realize the whole project, using Bar Chart, Pie chart and other charts to display the evaluation result.    Responsibilities:  • Gained experience in project planning and management, Translating project requirement into visual  mock-ups, UI design, information architecture and navigation design.  • Using HTML, CSS for building page layout with JavaScript and jQuery library for additional feature.  • Involved in designing user screens and validations using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Implemented the Web Service client for the login authentication, registration, input your choice and result reports and applicant information.  • Developed business modules using Hibernate and Spring Framework technologies.    Environment:  Bootstrap, HTML/5, CSS/CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, SVN, Photoshop. Software Engineer ZhiQi Railway Equipment Limited Company - Taiyuan, CN October 2009 to May 2011 Project: Official Website    Project involved creating new pages for personals site for company to provide user a better and friendly  experience with the site using Agile Methodology of software development.    Responsibilities:  • Involving in the website architecture design.  • Compile a system design procedure proposal that meets every requirement and follows agile model.  • Design database schema and relationship tables.  • Using JavaScript, jQuery to obtain the data using 3rd party SOAP APIs to acquire flight information  and display it in sorted order.  • Working as a team to design HTML and CSS to fit into screen of different device.  • Using jQuery and JavaScript to create user interface and form validation.    Environment:  HTML4, CSS2, jQuery, JavaScript, SOAP, Ajax, JSON, SVN. Education Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ December 2013 Bachelor of Science in Automation in Automation Shan Dong University - Jinan, CN June 2009 Skills C#, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, JSON, Java, Linux, Spring, UI, Front-End, Angular, React, Front End Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jierong-jerry-xue-94820364/