Job Seeker ? Have Experience in Implementations and Production Support projects of R12.  ? Developed many reports in BI Publisher.  ? Experience in Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, Forms and Reports  ? Expert in writing PL/SQL Procedures, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers  ? Developed User GUI using Oracle Forms 9i and Reports9i & 10g.  ? Experience in development of Commercial Applications.  ? Experience in conducting trainings to Oracle Apps developers and end users  ? Experience in General Ledger, Payables, Fixed Assets, Purchasing, Inventory, Order Management. Work Experience KPMG March 2015 to September 2016 Working with Zensar technologies from Sep-2016 to till date. Sr. Software Engineer Tech Mahindra February 2014 to March 2015 Sr Developer Evoke Technologies July 2012 to February 2014 Assistant Consultant GreenChain Software Solutions (P) Ltd February 2010 to July 2012 Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science & Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2007 Government of Andhra Pradesh Board of Intermediate Education 2003 Secondary School Certificate in Government of Andhra Pradesh Board of Secondary Education 2000 Additional Information Skills Set    Languages: Oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  Operating System: Windows XP, 2003, UNIX/ LINUX.  Databases: ORACLE 9i, 10g, 11g.  Development Tools: Oracle Forms & Reports 6i, 9i and 10g.  Other Tools: TOAD, SQL Developer, Discoverer, XML Publisher.  Applications: Oracle Applications 11i , R12 , Basics of Oracle fusion in BI Publisher reports.    Training Programs Conducted    Conducted Corporate Training for Dhanush Infotech on Forms10g and Reports 10g.  Conducted Corporate Training for SQL Star on Oracle Apps technical, XML publisher.  Conducted Corporate Training for internal employees on Oracle Apps Technical.  Conducted Corporate Training for Genpact for Oracle Apps Technical and XML Publisher.    Training Programs Attended    Attended Oracle SQL, PLSQL, Oracle Developer Suite from SQL STAR International Ltd, in Jun 2008.  Attended Training in Oracle Applications - Technical in GreenChain Software Solutions, in Feb 2010.    Work Experience - Zensar Technologies    Title: Toshiba (TABS).  End Client: Toshiba.  Environment: PL/SQL, BI Publisher, Reports 10g, Forms 10g.  Role: Oracle Apps Technical Consultant.  Duration: Apr-17 to till date.    Project Profile:    Toshiba America Business Solutions Inc. (TABS) is an independent operating company of Toshiba Corp., the world's eighth-largest electronics/electrical equipment organization. It manufactures and distributes printing, scanning, and copying solutions for businesses. The company offers printing systems, including copiers, multifunction printing devices, barcode printers, and fax machines; and digital signage products, as well as provides software that helps to capture, manage, deliver, and documents. It serves financial, corporate, healthcare, education, manufacturing, retail, and legal industries. Toshiba America Business Solutions, Inc. sells its products through a network of dealers and distributors in the United States and internationally.    • Managing the team of Management trainees.  • Worked as individual contributor in most of the objects which are either developed or enhanced.  • Analysis of requirements for new retro fitments and impact analysis.  • Preparation of Project technical documents.  • Development of code as per the business requirements.  • New enhancements of existing Objects.  • Unit testing and system integration testing of the Retrofitted code.  • Providing fixes to the issues identified in testing phase.  • Packaging of the developed component to be deployed in production environment.  • Code Migration from one instance to another.  • Developed components like Creating purchase orders through excel sheet.  • Developed the Bi Publisher report in Inventory modules.    Title: Boart Longyear.  End Client: Boart Longyear.  Environment: PL/SQL, BI Publisher, Reports 10g, Forms 10g.  Role: Oracle Apps Technical Consultant.  Duration: Apr-17 to till date.    Project Profile:    Boart Longyear is the world's leading provider of drilling services, drilling equipment and performance tooling for mining and drilling companies. It also has a substantial presence in aftermarket parts and service, energy, mine dewatering, oil sands exploration, production drilling, and down-hole instrumentation.    • Production Support.  • Client customization.  • Data Migrations.  • Worked on Custom Forms & Report issues.  • Also developed component on Item Cross references.    Work Experience - KPMG    Title: APL.  End Client: Aurobindo Pharma.  Environment: PL/SQL, BI Publisher, Reports 10g.  Role: Oracle Apps Technical Consultant.  Duration: Mar-15 to till date.    Project Profile:    Aurobindo Pharma Limited is a pharmaceutical manufacturing company headquartered in HITEC City, Hyderabad, India. The company manufactures generic pharmaceuticals and active pharmaceutical ingredients. The company's area of activity includes six major therapeutic/product areas: antibiotics, anti-retrovirals, cardiovascular products, central nervous system products, gastroenterologicals, and anti-allergics.The company markets these products in over 125 countries across Europe and India.    • New development of Bi Publisher reports.  • Client customization.  • Outbound interfaces.  • Data Migrations.  • Worked on Custom Report issues.    Work Experience - Tech Mahindra    Title: Uniform Global GL.  End Client: GE Power and Water.  Environment: PL/SQL, BI Publisher, Reports 10g.  Role: Oracle Apps Technical Consultant.  Duration: Feb-14 to till date.    Project Profile:    General Electric Company (GE) is an American multinational conglomerate incorporated in New York and headquartered in Boston. As of 2018, the company operates through the following segments: aviation, healthcare, power, renewable energy, digital, additive manufacturing, venture capital and finance, lighting, transportation, and oil and gas  • Customization of Reports in Reports Builder.  • Handling the Daily GL Runs.  • Enhancements in Shell Scripts.  • Working on Custom Forms.  • Working on Upgradation issues from 11i to R12.  • Worked on Custom Interface issues.    Work Experience - Evoke    Title: Finance and Projects.  End Client: Telephonics.  Environment: PL/SQL, BI Publisher, Reports 10g.  Role: Oracle Apps Technical Consultant.  Duration: Jul-12 to Feb-14.    Project Profile:    Telephonics is US based company which manufactures communication devices. Griffon Corporation is a multinational conglomerate headquartered in New York City. The company conducts its operations through five subsidiaries: The AMES Companies, ClosetMaid, Clopay Building Products, CornellCookson, and Telephonics Corporation. Griffon has been publicly traded since 1961and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange as a component stock of the S&P SmallCap 600, S&P Composite 1500, and Russell 2000 indices    • Customization of Reports in Reports Builder.  • Customization of Reports in XML Publisher in Payables Module.  • Working on dd250 report in Projects module.  • Working on Custom Forms.  • Working on Upgradation issues of reports from 11i to R12.    Work Experience - Green Chain    Title: Oracle SCM & Financials Production Support.  End Client: Global Payments (Enrich IT Solutions)  Environment: PL/SQL, Reports 10g, XML Publisher, Forms Builder.  Role: Oracle Apps Technical consultant  Duration: Apr-12 to Jul-12.    Project Profile:    Global payments are one of the world's largest electronic transaction processing companies, headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, USA. Global payments also provides comprehensive business-to-business payment card and processing services, such as cash management, financial electronic data interchange, management information and reporting services.    • Developed out bound interfaces for Trial Balance Detail report  • Developed Manual Balance Returns Extract(Outbound Interface , Customized Report).  • Developed Return Aging Extract(Outbound Interface , Customized report).    Work Experience - Green Chain    Title: Oracle SCM & Financials Production Support.  End Client: Airtel Africa (On site).  Environment: PL/SQL, Reports 10g, XML Publisher, Forms Builder.  Role: Oracle Apps Technical consultant  Duration: OCT 2011 to March 2012.    Project Profile:    Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) B.V., doing business as Airtel Africa, is a holding company and a subsidiary of Indian telecommunications company Bharti Airtel. Through its subsidiaries, Airtel Africa provides telecommunication services in 15 African countries.    • Working on XML Publishers Reports.  • Issue Resolutions for production related issues.  • Enhancement Requests.  • Working on RDF Reports.  • Issues related to Data Errors.  • New implementations.  • GRN reports in SCM.  • Payment Reports in AP.  • Matrix configurations.  • Reports Deployment.    Work Experience - Green Chain    Title: Oracle SCM Migration of 11i to R12.  End Client: Oracle Consulting Services, Mumbai - onsite  Environment: PL/SQL, Reports 10g.  Role: Oracle Apps Technical consultant  Duration: AUG 2011 to SEP2011    • Reports Migration from 11i Instance to R12  • Destruction certificate in OPM Financials  • Inventory Adjustment Report  • PO order Details report.    Work Experience - Green Chain    Title: Oracle Financials production support.  End Client: HDFC Bank, Mumbai - onsite  Environment: PL/SQL, Forms 10g, Reports 10g.  Role: Oracle Apps Technical consultant  Duration: Feb 2011 to Aug 2011.    Project Profile:  HDFCBANK - Company History. HDFC Bank Ltd is one of India's premier banks. Headquartered in Mumbai HDFC Bank is a new generation private sector bank providing a wide range of bankingservices covering commercial and investment banking on the wholesale side and transactional/branch banking on the retail side    • Giving production support to end users.  • Solving the issues of the end users.  • Giving support to all Financial and customized modules.  • Worked on Property Manager  • Handling customized Discoverer reports.  • Handling the customized Forms in Property Manager.  • Handling customized Interfaces of GL.    Work Experience - GreenChain    Title: SCM & Finance.  End Client: National Oil Corporations Libya.  Environment: PL/SQL, Forms 10g, Reports 10g.  Role: Oracle Apps Technical Consultant.  Duration: Feb 2010 to JAN 2011.    • Customization of Reports in Reports Builder.  • Customization of Reports in XML Publisher in Payables Module.  • Developed Interface for Suppliers upload.  • Customization of Forms.