Database Developer II Database <span class="hl">Developer</span> II Database Developer II - Comscore Chicago, IL Motivated and passionate Database Developer with 7 years of experience working in an agile development environment.  - Experience working with and maintaining large datasets.  - Possess expert knowledge of SQL Server, SSIS, SSRS, Power BI, SSAS and relational database modeling.  - Possess working knowledge of Snowflake, AWS S3 and Airflow.  - Actively working to achieve AWS Solutions Architect Associate certification. Work Experience Database Developer II Comscore - Chicago, IL July 2014 to Present Designed and developed business intelligence solutions for multiple Comscore products.  - Designed, developed and maintained business intelligence and data warehousing solutions for Comscore's Media Ratings, Campaign Ratings and Survey products that consume terabytes of data for client-facing reports.  - Developed scalable, performance-oriented and reusable SSIS packages, stored procedures, functions, and triggers that support  client data delivery.  - Developed SSRS and Power BI reports for Product and Finance teams to present and analyze data with high degree of detail.  - Partnered with Product Management and UI teams to define requirements for ETL data consumption.  - Actively monitored production processes to identify runtime bottlenecks and optimize query performance.  - Reduced cost of complex processes by 40% by implementing suitable indexes and table partitioning.  - Actively involved in transitioning data from on-premise SQL Server to Snowflake using python scripts.  - Designed and developed an automated workflow for the complex process of tag creation, which reduced the possibility of user  error by 95%.  - Reduced maintenance and support costs by 50% by implementing new approach for SSIS package development and deployment.  - Planned and created deployment plans for major production releases.  - Mentored junior and entry-level developers in terms of development methodologies and best practices. Engineering Intern SpringCM - Chicago, IL June 2013 to August 2013 Involved in development of a data warehouse to be used by the engineering teams to analyze the major business processes and their  respective time to availability.  - Designed the data warehouse based on key business processes and available process data in the database.  - Staged and joined data from multiple locations while also performing aggregation and calculations.  - Used T- SQL within SQL Management Studio to design a database, database objects, linked servers, and schedule jobs. Software Engineer Accenture - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2010 to February 2012 The ESP, Employee Scheduling Program at AT&T, USA was developed to create and assign six weeks of work schedules for the technicians. Data is passed between the EDGE interface and many interacting interfaces at real time in the form of text files via ftp.  - Actively participated in the requirements gathering phase and design documentation.  - Developed programs in pro C to parse data from the incoming text files and inserting them into the database tables.  - Coded the pro C program to generate the six-week schedules based on user selected rules. The generated schedules were inserted  into the database tables.  - Developed stored procedures to generate reports which were sent to other interfaces.  - Implemented pro C programs to format the data generated from the stored procedures and generate a text file that was sent to the appropriate interface via ftp. Education MS in Computer Science in Database Management George Mason University - Fairfax, VA August 2012 to May 2014 BE in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2006 to June 2010 Skills Database, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2008, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Power bi, Ssrs, T-sql, Git, Javascript, Python, Java, Bi Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ankeeta-jain-61849427 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages: C, Java, JavaScript, Python  Database: Oracle 10g, MS SQL Server 2008, 2012, 2014, 2016, Snowflake  Technologies Experienced in: PL/SQL, T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS, Power BI  Other Tools: Putty, Toad, DynaTrace, GIT, SourceTree