Banker Tablet Banker Tablet Banker Tablet - JPMorgan ? 7.5 years of experience in design, development, testing, and integration of enterprise applications using agile methodologies and resource management.    ? Have good working experience on Cloud based apps using Cloud Foundry (PCF)    ? Good Exposure to Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery using Jules    ? Very good hands on experience in design and development of Spring Boot applications with Micro services.    ? Decent Hands on experience in Web services- Rest and Soap and Messaging Systems.    ? Experience in designing applications using various Design patterns    ? Good experience in developing business components based on the customer requirement by using Core Java concepts.    ? Experience on Monitoring tools like Splunk, Dynatrace.    ? Strong experience in working with Server like Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat.    ? Extensively used various internet technologies like HTML, Java Script.    ? Expertise in development tools like Intellij, RAD, Eclipse and Spring tool suite(STS).    ? Hands on Experience in using AJAX and Jquery.    ? Hands on Experience in Oracle using SQL, PL/SQL.    ? Hands on Experience in MariaDB.    ? Hands on Experience in using GIT bitbucket,SVN,LOG4J,Winscp and Putty.    ? 2+ years of exposure to Agile methodologies.    ? 2+ years of experience in resource management, mentoring and efficient Experience in handling multiple projects simultaneously    ? More enthusiastic in learning new concepts and can adapt to new environments easily and quick learner with good leadership skills Work Experience Banker Tablet JPMorgan - US January 2019 to Present Duration: Jan 2019 to Till Date.    Project Description:  The main objective of the project is to provide the account balance details to the bankers. This Service is developed as part of Banker Tablet project, goal of project is to get balance details that would be displayed to bankers which will empower customers to self serve and leverage relevant, personalized, convenient and meaningful interactions with bankers. This API can be utilized by any application that on boards to API via API gateway and ADFS.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Designing and Coding.  ? Developed the business logic implementation for the application.  ? Analyzing the code for various flows.  ? Database Script Preparation.  ? Application Development, Unit Testing and Integration Testing.  ? Communicating with the client and getting inputs for new requirements  ? Proactively helped the client in Build and Release Management.    Project #2:    Project Name: Seeding & Purge  Client: JPMorgan, U.S.  Team Size: 3  Role: Developer  Tehnology: Java(1.8), SpringBatch, Kafka, Cloud, SpringBoot, SpringJPA, DB2.  Tools: Splunk, Dynatrace, Squirrel, SoapUI, Swagger, Jules, AIM Deployment tool Senior Software Developer JPMorgan Chase - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN August 2016 to Present ARR. Before July 2018 to December 2018 Project Description:  Seeding approach is to allow the channels to have the account related data stored in to their local data stores so that they could independently decide on how to use the data rather than calling ARR SOR to get the relationship details thereby reducing calls to ARR. Before channels start consuming real time events they should also have base line data to fully utilize the inquiry services.  To perform table cleanup at regular intervals, Events with Status as '2' (i.e confirmed successfully published to Kafka) will be purged after they get older than 7 days from current date.    Responsibilities:  ? Implemented Spring Batch Partitioning approach for this application.  ? Involved in Coding, End to end from raising Infrastructure Setup requests, Unit Testing to Deployment of Code in Production.  ? Involved in Design and Discussions with Onshore team and BA to understand requirement.  ? Supported QA and Performance Testing    Project #3:    Project Name: Channel Resiliency  Client: JPMorgan, U.S.  Team Size: 5  Role: Developer  Technology: Java(1.8), Kafka, Cloud, SpringBoot, SpringJPA, DB2.  Tools: Splunk, Dynatrace, Squirrel, SoapUI, Swagger, Jules, AIM Deployment tool Enterprise systems-Deposits October 2017 to June 2018 Project Description:  Enterprise systems-Deposits for Resiliency purpose will publish the data changes for the channels to consume. This will allow the consumers to subscribe to different events and start consuming them real-time. Events are Account-Account Relationship and Configuration Events. ARR relationship event will capture all the account to account relationship that we can maintain via ARR open/maint. Any account relationship update/add/delete request coming from ARR-Open/maint will trigger the event to be generated for tracked fields only    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Requirements gathering meetings with Onshore and Offshore team.  ? Involved in Design and Coding using Event design approach.  ? Coordinated with Zates team and prepared scripts for Performance testing.  ? Worked closely with Configuration management team for deployment setup in lower and prod environments.  ? Involved in Unit and Integration Testing.    Project #4:    Project Name: Account Inquiry -GAIA(cloud)  Client: JPMorgan, U.S.  Team Size: 3  Role: Developer  Technology: Java(1.8), Cloud, SpringBoot, Rest, Sring JMS & JPA, DB2.  Tools: Splunk, Dynatrace, Squirrel, SoapUI, Swagger, Jules, AIM Deployment tool  Duration: Jan 2017 to Sep 2017.    Project Description:  The main objective of the project is to provide the account information to the channels. This System will get the MQ message (FLM) from different channels. Validation needs to be performed on the message and different service calls to be made to get the account information. This project is to convert the legacy Account Inquiry application to Cloud based application.    This project is basically designed to interact with 3 micro services and provide composite information.  1. Accounts Service - To get the information from Arrangement database.  2. Accounts SBS Service - To get legacy information from SBS database  3. Customer service - To get the customer related information for the corresponding account.    Responsibilities:  ? Understood the existing business flow and suggested the new approach using microservices  ? Involved in Designing and Coding.  ? Implemented Code changes for two microservices i.e Account Service and Account SBS service.  ? Prepared technical documentation for these two microservices.  ? Prepared L2 preparation documentation for Production support team.    Project #5:    Project Name: Legal Portal Developer Vodafone India Limited January 2012 to October 2014 Environment: Java(1.6), Servlets, JSP, Oracle 9i, Web Sphere Application Server.    Project Description:  Legal Security CDR Application is developed to make Vodafone comply with the TRAI/DoT requirements for security related guidelines. The DoT requirement entails maintaining 12 months CDR data which will be available online through an application. The application aims to provide CDR data to Government Agency like CBI, ATS, and State Police etc. to investigate legal matters. Vodafone Nodal Officer uses this application over the Vodafone Intranet to access the CDR data on request of these Govt. Agency.    Responsibilities:  ? Preparing/Updating Technical Specifications for Tasks identified by Team and client.  ? Responsible for Implementing JSP Pages for the Presentation.  ? Wrote Functional requirements using J2EE standards and developed the database connection using JDBC.  ? Analyzing the code for various flows.  ? Database Script Preparation.  ? Responsible for Implementing Validations.  ? Application Development and Unit Testing and Integration Testing.    Project #6:    Project Name: IPOS & iPOS_MNP (Mobile Number Portability) Developer JPMorgan - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN November 2009 to October 2014 Project #1:    Project Name: FAP Account Balance API -GAIA(cloud)  Client: JPMorgan, U.S.  Team Size: 4  Role: Developer  Technology: Java(1.8), Cloud(GAIA), SpringBoot, Rest, JPA, DB2.  Tools: Splunk, Dynatrace, Squirrel, SoapUI, Swagger, Jules, AIM Deployment tool Developer Vodafone India Limited December 2009 to January 2012 Environment: Java(1.6), Servlets, JSP, Oracle, Web Sphere Application Server.    Project Description:  Mobile Number Portability or MNP is an offering that allows you to switch your mobile network without changing your number. Send an SMS to 1900, User will get an SMS reply that contains a unique porting code. This code is valid only for a few days. The subscriber will need to apply in the prescribed application form to the chosen new service provider quoting the UPC. New operator will verify with the existing operator whether the customer have any dues. If there is no due, then existing operator will give approval for porting. Rules mandate that the process be completed within 7 working days of applying.MNP service can be opted for by both GSM and CDMA subscribers and also pre-paid and post-paid customers. Portability is possible only within the circle and not outside. Customers will have to remain with the new operator for three months and only then go in for another service provider.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in test case preparation.  ? Developing and Building JSP pages.  ? Performed system testing. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science & Engineering Shadan College of Engineering affiliated Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: JAVA(1.8)    Technologies: CloudFoundry(GAIA),SpringBoot,Micro Services,Spring,J2EE  WebServices: Rest and Soap(JAX-WS)  ORM: Hibernate  Messaging Systems: JMS, MQ - Web Sphere  SQL: DB2,Oracle,Mariadb  Servers: Web Sphere Application Server(WAS) and Apache Tomcat  Tools: SoapUI,Squirrel,Toad,Splunk, Dynatrace, Jules, AIM Deployment tool.