Senior Python Developer Senior Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - American Express Phoenix, AZ • 8+ years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance and applications using various technologies.  • Hands on experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask web application frameworks.  • Developed web applications, RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django; good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Solid background in Object-Oriented analysis in developing front end and back end framework using various Design Patterns.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Java, HTML, XML, KML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Working knowledge of Python ORM libraries including Django ORM, SQL Alchemy.  • Experience in developing applications using Amazon Web Services like EC2, Virtual private clouds (VPCs), Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage), Elastic Load balancer ELBs.  • Strong development experience on Linux based operating systems (Debain, CentOS, RedHat, Ubuntu).  • Proficiency in writing SQL queries (T-SQL, PL/SQL programming), tables, view, functions, triggers, stored procedures using relational databases like MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle; Experienced in NoSQL technologies like Cassandra, Mongo DB.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments (IDE) like NetBeans, PyCharm, Eclipse, Visual Studio.  • Experience in using various version control systems like SVN, CVS, Git.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ January 2018 to Present The main goal of the project was to create web based application that lets you electronically tests and view the saving results. Also application supports customer information and provides quick access to the Transaction for easier and efficient manner    Responsibilities: • Participated in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle like Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing.  • Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 3.4 and its familiar framework Django.  • Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and Website interface is created using Django's view controller and template.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Used SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Python Unit test library was used for the purpose of testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • For the manipulation of data from the database various queries using SQL were written and created a database using MySQL.  • Used AJAX for Better interactivity for the end user and easier navigation and AJAX is compact.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system; Created Git repository and added to Git Hub project.  • An application was developed in Linux environment and dealt with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 3.4, Django, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, Git, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. Senior Python Developer Caterpillar Inc - Peoria, IL January 2015 to December 2017 The main goal of the project was to support the finance organization for budget forecast and reporting using Python based web apps.    Responsibilities: • Full Stack developer, created a custom web application using Django, AWS (Amazon web service), REST, Json with JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX components.  • Created database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web based application.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Updated and manipulated content and files by using python scripts.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Wrote scripts in Python for automation of testing jobs.  • Modified multi-threaded C++ programs to process data; used STL containers, algorithms, various data structures and design patterns in software design.  • Involved in Developing a RESTful service using Python Flask framework.  • Deployment and Build on various environments including Linux and UNIX.  • Created complex dynamic HTML UI using jQuery.  • Developed an analytics system using Memcached, Cassandra • Performed Python scripting using the pyodbc module to select daily .xlsx files and then to read and connect those files onto Access. From there, data would be filtered and manipulated to be appended onto a master inventory table • Compared leases using inner/outer joins that are active to our total lease database to ensure data integrity and validity.  • Developed several Python administrative scripts to automate project deployment process.  • Implemented the unit test cases and mentored junior developers • Participated in code reviews and implemented Pythonic best practices.  • Acted as a scrum master and conducted the retrospectives, planning meetings, resolved the impediments, planned the releases with the team with the product owners.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.    Environment: Python, Django, Flask, UML Rational Rose, C++, Design Patterns, SVN, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOA/OOD, Shell Scripting, Git, GitHub, MYSQL. Python Developer Progressive Insurance - Mayfield Village, OH October 2013 to December 2014 Progressive Auto Insurance portal provides ability for end customers/users to request a quote, provide quote details, purchase auto insurance and payment of insurance amount. This platform is built using a Struts framework in the presentation layer. The back end functionality is built using Oracle as data persistence layer and Hibernate as data access layer.    Responsibilities: • Worked on the project from gather requirement developing the entire application, with help from other analyst.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Use of Python Frameworks for data analysis including Sqlalchemy.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle 9i.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked in an agile development environment.    Environment: Python, Django, JSON, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, AWS, XML, SOAP, GitHub, Jira, Agile, SQL, PL/SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and Windows. Software Engineer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC July 2011 to September 2013 BOA is one of the leading companies in the U.S which deals in a range of financial services i.e. Housing Loan, Mortgage, and Credit Cards etc. Accounts Receivable System holds the demographic, financial, and historical information for each account. Other modules needing that information obtain it from AR System, eliminating record duplication. The project Involves the development of the Automatic Clearing House system (Electronic fund Transfer), to facilitate faster and better recovery of Accounts Receivable.    Responsibilities: • Designed and developed use-case diagrams, class diagrams, and object diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, Java, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills Python 3.4, Django, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, Git, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python, C/C++, ASP.NET, Shell Scripts, Java, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery,  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, JavaScript, XML, KML, AJAX, JQuery, JSON  Web Frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask, Webapp2, AngularJS,  Databases MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle (8i, 9i, 10g, 11g), MongoDB  Operating Systems & Servers UNIX/Linux, Ubuntu, Windows, Apache Tomcat,  Utilities Git, SVN, MS Visio, MS Office    Methodologies Waterfall, Spiral, Agile