UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - TD Bank Lincoln, NE • Around 7 Years of extensive Experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML 4.0/5, XHTML, CSS2/CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, Angular, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON AND XML.  • Expert in developing web applications using JavaScript, JSP, HTML/DHTML, DOM, XHTML, jQuery, CSS, and Ajax, & IDE tools like Visual Studio, Notepad++.  • Expertise in developing front-end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular Material, HTML5, CSS3, MVC frameworks such as Angular JS, Backbone JS as a platform for Web applications.  • Good Knowledge of JavaScript frameworks jQuery.  • Strong Experience in Cross Browser issues handling and designing table-less layouts and Web Standards.  • Extensive Knowledge in developing single-page applications (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like backbone.js, underscore.js and bootstrap.  • Experience in building Responsive Single Page Applications (SPA) using React JS and rendering pages on the server side for faster loading and updating.  • Extensive experience with writing React JS components and managing DOM updates to render a web page faster and smoother.  • Strong experience in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and Java Script.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Strong Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation.  • Focused on creating interactive software products with valuable & intuitive user experiences.  • Experienced in monitoring the Production Environments under 24/7 (under on-call rotation) to meet the Service Level Agreements set by the management.  • Strong experience in writing and updating the technical documents on daily basis with the changes made to the existing environment on daily basis.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments.  • Highly Curious about new front-end development technologies and adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering them with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of programming solutions.  • Worked closely with the project management and marketing team to completely define specifications to help ensure project acceptance.  • Proven track record demonstrating innovative and unique designing skills, computer proficiency, ability to work in a stressful environment with projects and interaction with every team member.  • Involved in Understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer TD Bank - Mount Laurel, NJ September 2018 to Present Description:  TD Bank provides funds or loans to people with small business requirements. Applicants get their loans sanctioned based on their credit history. The applicant information is maintained in a database along with the details of the loan for repayment. This data is filtered into different categories based on parameters like type of account, loan amount, due date. The filtered data is used for statistics for generating reports  Responsibilities:  • Developed the front end of the application using web technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, ES5, SASS, Javascript.  • Configured routes using React-Router between React JS and Express.js to render the templates from the server-side and Wrote re-usable React JS components and managed states and props.  • Used React JS with Redux to separate the data and presentation layer. Utilized Redux stores to handle the states and update the UI.  • Worked with Reducers, React Containers to update the state of an APP produced by Redux and by mapping those to the React component using React-Redux.  • Accelerated app performance by using Node.JS clusters and improved scalability. Achieved zero down time by utilizing the master and workers efficiently.  • Coded and used Generators and Promises to resolve call-back hells resulting in efficient and structured code.  • Used Web pack in React JS to bundle the code and minify/uglify the Javascript and CSS files and to find any best practices violations and to create proxy to re-route XHR on systems.  • Created load balancers using NGINX to health monitor servers and balance the traffic efficiently between servers to reduce the runtime. Also cached static assets (CSS, JS, Image files etc.) to reduce the load time.  • Handled the UI of the application using React JS and wrote React components and efficiently managed routes to handle user events and bind the data.  • Worked with new features of CSS3 such as media queries, Flex box, 3D Transforms, Animations, and few other in the application along with html5 such as Geolocation, Drag and Drop, Web worker, Validation, etc.  • Utilized React JS Virtual DOM to update the webpage which resulted in faster load time and rendering and Deployed the web page by using server-side rendering (React JS) which resulted in fast loading and faster I/O operations.  Environment: React JS, Node.JS, Express.JS, ES5, Bootstrap, MongoDB, HTML5, CSS3, Adobe Tools. Sr. Developer Delta Airlines - Atlanta, GA August 2016 to September 2018 Project: Delta Dotcom for Business (DDCFB), Omni Payment and MyProfile    Description:  Delta Air Lines, Inc. typically referred to as simply Delta, is a major United States airline, with its headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. The airline, along with its subsidiaries and regional affiliates, operates over 5,400 flights daily and serves an extensive domestic and international network that includes 304 destinations in 52 countries on six continents, as of October 2018.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Templates using Bootstrap, HTML5 to match the mockups provided by UX team.  • Working in the Agile/Scrum development environment with frequently changing requirements and actively participated in scrum meetings and reviews.  • Migrated legacy Jquery application to Angular4 application with TypeScript and backend with Node Js.  • Developed Angular 4/6 single page applications from scratch using angular cli and Bootstrap framework for responsive web design.  • Most of our User Interface came from Angular Material as well as Bootstrap and CSS3 to ensure responsiveness across different devices and screen sizes.  • Used angular Input (), Output () methods for data transferring between components and write reusable angular components.  • Used rxjs library Observal methods to fetch data from service to components.  • Used Rxjs Behaviour Subject object for triggering global event emitters and drive business logic based on requirements.  • Created reusable modules for improving code reusability.  • Wrote unit test cases using Angular test bed configuration.  • Developed form validations using angular reactive forms to maintain clean Html.  • Wrote Angular Promise objects to make Asynchronous calls (AJAX) from angular services for optimizing data loading times.  • Used Adobe experience manager (AEM) for the content management and to get author content as json response.  • Developed custom directives for doing DOM manipulation and to cover repeated functionality without duplicating code in different Modules.  • Involved in code refactoring by simplifying object structures and moved common functionality to services instead of individual components.  • Used TypeScript strong typing feature to avoid runtime errors and restricted local scope and global scope declaration issues.  • Wrote unit test cases using chai mocha frame work to cover logic and done code refactoring while updating test cases. Used Karma as test runner.  • Used HTML5 browser session storage and local storage to store data and handle the angular page refresh treatment.  • Implemented Accessibility voice over functionality According to AA for entire application using NG-Aria module and used NVDIA tool for testing voice over.  • Used SASS and LESS CSS preprocessors and mixings for stylings.  • Implemented Angular custom form validations using built in directives.  • Fixed device specific issues by device debugging (both I0S and Android).  • Involved in production releases activities, supported for both prerelease and post release testing, pushed hot fixes through continuous deployment service.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular Material, JSP, JQuery, Angular4/6, AEM, WCM, CMS, Jenkins, CICD CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, Agile, React, Bootstrap, RESTAPI, Webpack, SASS, NodeJS, Jasmine Karma, NPM, GIT, JIRA. UI Developer Parexel International - Duluth, GA July 2014 to August 2016 Project: Payer Based Health Record  Description:  A payer-based health record web-based application. It's a report prepared from claims data submitted by providers to health plans. Health Plans are currently the only stakeholder in the health care system that collects information from almost all providers that their members visit. It provides quick, easy access to patients' transactions/activities across health care system: 1. Prescription drug history, 2. Lab history 3. Radiology history, 4.History of visits to doctors and hospitals, 5.Immunization history, 6. Diagnosis detail.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the UI layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matched requirements.  • Coordinated project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX.  • Implemented applications using Bootstrap framework.  • Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using OOD and MVC architecture.  • Bootstrap used along with Angular JS in creating the Application.  • Development of Client Side Validation techniques using Web RTC and JQuery and Angular Java Script.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like Hybrid HTML5, XHTML, and CS.  • REST uses the standard HTTP request and response mechanism, simplifying implementation and providing for a looser coupling of the client and server.  • Translate business goals and user needs into a easy-to-use mobile app experiences by quickly prototyping ideas from low-fidelity wireframes concepts to high-fidelity deliverables.  • Developed non-functional HTML5, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  • Developed GUI using OOD, JavaScript, Angular JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and jQuery, jQuery Mobile, Backbone.js in on-going projects.  • Used JQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application.  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML 4.0/5, CSS (2/3), XHTML, Hybrid HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Improved user experience by designing and creating new web components and features.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Followed MVC Structure to develop Application.  • Widely used optimization techniques in existing code.  • Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows and Mac.  • Tested/De-bugged on browser using Firebug.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Coded Java Script for page functionality and Lightbox plugins using JQUERY.  Environment: AngularJS, CSS3, XML, HTML5/DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Tomcat Apache JQuery, JSP, REST API, Oracle, AJAX, Web RTC, SVN. Software Developer America Red Cross June 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented a web app for storing the information of customer, generating sales reports, saving contacts and handling schedule management.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme and layout for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 and Javascript, selectors.  • Received business logic specifications and design documents and translated them into HTML5, CSS3 pre-processor styling SASS, JSON files, ES5, Javascript code, high charts and Angular JS.  • Created forms and sessions using Node.JS and Express.js to store the user data and provide dynamic views based on the users.  • Created custom Filters which can format data in different ways based on the requirements and involved in two-way data binding technique with styling from Bootstrap.  • Worked on building custom directives, filters as well as services in the application. Dealt with Angular provided in-built router for navigating through the application from the root module.  • Manipulated data using CRUD operations of NoSQL database management system (MongoDB) and handled database access and data transmission based on Restful web services.  • Mapping the Template with its View, Component, Controller via bridges and getting the data via service calls, virtual services or mock it with JSON, and defining in a utility called Data Transform.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles and fixed major bugs for supported browsers and platforms; wrote the Unit Test Cases using Jasmine and Karma  • Interacted with the back-end staff and scrum master at the daily meeting for new features in this web app using agile software development methodology.  Environment: Angular JS, Node.JS, Express.JS, ES5, Bootstrap, MongoDB, HTML5, CSS3.    Technical Skills:  Web Technologies: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, AJAX, XHTML, JSON, XML 1.0, XML 1.1, REST, SOAP, XML-RPC, Java/j2ee  JavaScript Library: JQuery, Angular.js, Angular 4/6  Databases: SQL Server 2008, Oracle 11g, MySQL 5.1, MS Access 2007  Operating Systems: Windows (7, 8) and Mac (10.1-10.7)  IDE: VisualStudio, Notepad++ and Eclipse, Net Beans, Eclipse Kepler, IntelliJ IDEA, spring suite, Jira, SVN, CVS, GIT. Education Bachelor's Skills Git, Svn, Eclipse, Intellij idea, Jira, Cvs, Mac