Sr. Salesforce Developer/ Analyst Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Analyst Sr. Salesforce Developer/ Analyst - Cardinal Health Care Columbus, OH Around 7 years of IT experience with more than 6 years of experience as a Salesforce Developer involved in analysis, design, development, testing, delivery and maintenance of CRM systems.  ? Acquainted and well versed with Salesforce standard applications like Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Customer Support, Business Processes and Recommended Solutions to improve their processes using SFDC for user testing and web service testing.  ? Possess comprehensive understanding of CRM business processes like Campaign Management, Lead Management, Account Management, Case Management, Quote, Forecasting, Call Center, Asset Management and Product Tracking.  ? Experience in SFDC Development in implementing Apex classes, Test classes, Triggers, Visual force, Force.com IDE, SOQL, and SOSL.  ? Experience in designing required entities like creating Custom objects, Relationships/ Junction objects like Master-Child, Lookups, Entity Relationship Data Model, Pages, Classes, Interfaces, Workflows & Workflow rules, Triggers, Email alerts and Business Logic.  ? Experience in Salesforce Administrative tasks like Controllers & Triggers, Visual Force Pages, Custom Tabs, Custom Objects, Reports, Analytic Snapshots and Dashboards.  ? Experience in creating Lightning processes (Process Builder), complex multi-level Approval Processes, Workflow Rules, Email templates, Global Actions, Visual Flows, Validation Rules and Duplicate Matching Rules to implement business logic.  ? Good knowledge in Einstein Analytics, including Datasets, Dataflows, Lenses, Dashboards, Apps and Security Predicates.  ? Hands on experience implementing Security/Sharing rules, configured Permission sets, Fields level Security, Record level Security, Profiles, Roles and Resource monitoring at different Hierarchical level of Organization.  ? Experienced in UI including JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, XML and AJAX and experience in Apex, MS SQL Server, MySQL Database.  ? Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce using Data Loader Utility and Informatica on Demand.  ? Experience in working with Salesforce.com Sandbox and Production environments.  ? Experience in SFDC Integration using Web Service and Apex Programming, Salesforce.com Sales cloud functionalities. Strong knowledge in full life cycle project management.  ? Experience in Integrating AppExchange Applications using Salesforce.  ? Proficient in of different phases of SDLC with expertise in Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Designing, Development and Testing using Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  ? Acted as primary liaison between IT and business personnel facilitating proper understanding of the business needs and criticality of business workflow. Worked with Onshore and offshore teams.  ? Self-motivated and capable of rapidly learning new technologies and processes, and successfully applying them to projects and operations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer/ Analyst Cardinal Health Care January 2017 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Gathered user and functional system requirements via workshops, workflow storyboards and working with stakeholders and project teams to prioritize collected requirements.  ? Worked efficiently with standard Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Cases  And Opportunities.  ? Developed various Custom Objects, Formula fields, Master-Detail, Lookup relationships, Tabs, validation rules.  ? Created various Profiles, Roles, and Page Layouts and configured the Permissions based on the Organization hierarchy requirements.  ? Designed and deployed Custom tabs, Approval Processes and Auto-Response for automating business logic.  ? Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DML operations on the case records.  ? Experience with SAQL language for creating different widgets based on requirement.  ? Deep knowledge in Einstein Analytics where played around and created a prototype dashboard which includes both external data sets and Salesforce data.  ? Experienced in migrating the standard and custom objects in standard experience to lightning experience.  ? Used Lightning process builder for visualizing and creating automated business processes.    ? Created Wave datasets from using internal Salesforce data and external data sources.  ? Migrated data from external sources and performed insert, delete, upset, and export  Operations on millions of records.  ? Strong knowledge of Force.com platform technologies including Apex, Triggers, Visualforce, Workflows and Approvals, Integrations with end-to-end product development experience.  ? Worked on web services to integrate Salesforce using REST API calls.  ? Communicated regularly with the SFDC designated super users to support them in their role and provide information and training on new features and functionality.    ENVIRONMENT: Salesforce.com Platform, Analytics Cloud, Force.com Eclipse IDE, Lightning Experience, Apex classes and Controllers, HTML, CSS, Data Loader, SOQL, SOSL, SASL, SAQL, JSON, Dataflow, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud, Deployments, Visual Force, AppExchange apps. Sr. Salesforce Developer/Administrator Palm Beach County ISS September 2016 to November 2017 RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Coordinated with the business analysts, developers and project managers, in order to better customize, and utilize the full functionality of the Salesforce.com CRM solution.  ? Used Force.com Developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  ? Implemented Security Settings, configured profiles and permission sets.  ? Experience working in service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  ? Implemented Apex Data loader "Command Line Interface (CLI)" to automate the data loading process for the sandbox refresh activity.  ? Designed various Web Pages in Visualforce for customers to select a variety of services offered by the org and integrate them with the pricing team.  ? Involved in UI and DB Design for Mobile application. Developed and used various Email templates in HTML and Visualforce based on the business needs.  ? Customized existing Visualforce to align with Salesforce new Lightning UI experience.  ? Built different apps visually with Lightning App Builder, Lightning Components and Lightning connect integrations across multiple connections.  ? Worked with Dynamic Apex to access S-Objects and field describe information, execute dynamic  SOQL, SOSL and DML queries.  ? Created Apex Controller server for Salesforce Lightning experience and added Lightning Component to lightning pages and record pages.  ? Responsible for setting up web service integrations.  ? Implemented OAuth 2.0 for authentication by Force.com Canvas to integrate applications.  ? Worked with wave analytics assets like apps, dashboards, lenses, data sets to explore and import the data.  ? Managed dependencies, risks and planed for contingencies to ensure minimal effect on deliverables.  ? Deployed from DEV to QA, UAT, Staging, and Production using Force.com.  ? Written Apex Test classes to achieve above 90% code coverage to test apex methods.  ? Written Test scripts for various scenarios.    Automated Process for updating fields values between different objects.    ENVIRONMENT: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visualforce, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Lighting Controller, SOQL, SOSL, Email Services, Sales cloud, Service cloud, Security Controls, Visualforce Controllers, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader, SQL. Sr. Salesforce Developer/Administrator Rockwood Shutters, Texas November 2015 to August 2016 RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Connected with various team members regularly to gather business requirements and documented them accordingly.  ? Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Cases, Products, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  ? Integrated Salesforce with marketo to capture the leads using email marketing.  ? Create field mapping between custom fields of lead object with custom fields of account, contact and opportunity.  ? Created Profiles and implemented object and field level security to hide critical information from the profile users.  ? Used eclipse Force.com toolkit for creating Apex classes and Apex Triggers.  ? Developed Visual Force Pages and Components to include extra functionality and wrote Apex Classes to provide functionality to the visual pages.  ? Involved in data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to SalesForce.com Objects and fields.  ? Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  ? Used SOQL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects Schedule Apex with Batch Apex to fetch the new leads from marketo using Start, Execute and Final methods.  ? Used Force.com developer toolkit including Batch Apex, Apex Classes, and Apex Triggers and Visual Force pages to develop custom business logic.  ? Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, and pie charts, dashboards) to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool.  ? Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  ? Implemented Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case entry and manual case entry for entering customer's cases in Cases Tab.  ? Optimized Test classes as the code base grew because of which there were Deployment Failures due to Governor Limit Exceptions.  ? Used C#, APEX to develop custom visual force pages with cross data integration.  ? Managed team along with hands on experience on Workflows and Approvals, Html Email Templates, Salesforce for outlook, Entitlements, Articles, Auto Response rules, assignment Rules, Email to case.  ENVIRONMENT: Marketo Tool, Apex Data Loader, Visual Force, C#, Force.com Platform including Apex Programming Language and Visual force pages, Data Loader, Force.com IDE, Batch Apex, Reports, Dashboards, Security Controls, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Salesforce Mobile. Salesforce Developer ON Semiconductor Corporation January 2014 to October 2015 RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Participated in the App Customization and application setup Activities on Salesforce.com to meet the functional and operational needs of the organization.  ? Worked on the Sales Cloud territories to implement the manipulation and Data Integrity tasks such as merging duplicate records and cleaning.  ? Implemented Salesforce Automation (SFA) for Campaign Management, Lead Management, Pipeline Management.  ? Designed Entity-Relationship models for various custom objects and used Visualforce pages to design the interface Components.  ? Maintained best practices for conditional mockups in JavaScript logic.  ? Maintained Sales pipeline and quotes for Sales cloud.  ? Implemented Approval processes, created Email Templates and Approval Page Layouts and tested using Sandbox.  ? Generated custom dashboards and reports for analyzing clients and claims.  ? Performed mass data import from external databases into Salesforce.com application using Import Wizard, Excel Connector.  ? Developed various Apex Test Classes, batch classes, Controllers and Triggers in Visual force, Force.com and used Migration Tool.  ? Provided enhancements to the Salesforce deliverables by involving in User Acceptance Testing  (UAT) and working the internal areas within the organization.  ? Configured test scenarios in Sandbox environment to implement QA testing and migrated data between Force.com IDE and Sandbox using Force.com Component Deployment Wizard.  ? Developed training plans, materials, and documentation for business users and coordinated new users with the ongoing training sessions.    ENVIRONMENT: Security Management, Force.com Eclipse IDE, Visualforce, Sandbox Testing Environment, Reports and Dashboards, Force.com Component Deployment Wizard, Sales Cloud, S- Controls, Inbound and Outbound messages, Pipeline Management, SOQL, SOSL Queries. Salesforce Developer Farmers Insurance, California April 2012 to December 2013 RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Responsible for writing Apex, Visual force code containing business functions.  ? Developed Custom objects, custom tabs, Apex Triggers, Test classes for unit testing and code coverage.  ? Managed critical information on the profile users by creating Roles, Role Hierarchies, sharing rules and implementing Object and Field Level Security.  ? Implemented Tag functionality (Public as well as Private) for Standard as well as Custom objects.  ? Designed, developed, test and deployed custom Salesforce applications software using APEX Classes, Controller Classes and APEX Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  ? Extensively used HTML tags, Frames and CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) to maintain uniformity in the Web pages.  ? Involved in writing case escalation rules, the workflows for automated lead routing.  Involved in creating record types based on organization requirements and for the ease of business users.  ? Involved in design and development of different views and page layouts for different Profiles.  ? Created email templates, custom reports, dashboards and analytic snapshots.    ENVIRONMENT: Profiles, Roles, Standard Objects, Custom Objects, Record Types, Visualforce, Apex, Triggers, Test Classes, HTML, CSS. Software Developer Vertex Technologies - IN January 2011 to February 2012 RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Worked with business users in developing Change management process for converting business requirements to technical specifications.  ? Assisted in analysis and design of the several modules in the Project.  ? Analyzed the customer provided functional Requirements and prepared High level design document, UML class diagrams using Rational Rose.  ? Involved in Writing the Action Classes and developing the GUI.  ? Developed User Interface components of Site Manager, ePublish templates using JSP HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript used for front end validations of web pages, ePublish form templates.  ? Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript.  ? Created reports using SQL queries for all issued Action items.  ? Used Eclipse IDE in order to develop and deploy the application code.  ? Involved in Unit Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing.    ENVIRONMENT: JSP, Java Script, HTML, JDBC, Web Logic, Eclipse, Oracle Sql, MySQL. Education Bachelors in Computer Science Kamarajan College of Engg and Technology Bachelor's Skills C++, Html, Javascript, Xml, Apex, Css, Security, Web services, Force.com, Eclipse, Java, Database, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Bugzilla, Qtp, Crm, Loader Additional Information Technical Skills    Salesforce Technologies  Salesforce CRM, Analytics Cloud, Apex Language, Apex Scheduler, Apex Classes/Controllers, Batch Apex, Apex Triggers, SOSL, SOQL, Visual force (pages, controllers & components), Lightning, S-Controls, Apex Web Services, Workflow & Approvals, Reports & Dashboards, Roles, Security, Field updates, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects, Change Sets, AppExchange Package & Custom Application and Sandbox data loading.    Salesforce Tools  Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Data Loader, Force.com Excel Connector, Force.com platform (Sandbox, Production) QTP, Win Runner, Bugzilla and Sandbox loading & Testing,  Force.com Migration Tool.    Languages Apex, C, C++, Java , Visual Force  Web Technologies HTML, XHTML, CSS, XML, Javascript  Platforms Windows NT / 2000 / XP Pro / Vista / 2003 / 2008  IDE & Editors Eclipse, My Eclipse and Force.com Eclipse IDE  Database Oracle, SQL Server, MYSQL and Oracle 8i/9i/10g