Role Senior Software Engineer Role Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Role Senior Software Engineer - Riccione Resources Edison, NJ • Over 10+ years of strong experience working on leading web and database technologies like PHP (pure PHP 4/5, PHP with OOP, PHP with frameworks Symfony 2.X, Laravel), Node Js, React JS SQL(generic SQL, MySQL), JavaScript(generic JS, JQuery, Ajax, cross-domain Ajax and Angular JS), CSS, HTML, HTTP, XML, JSON, . Strong understanding and implementation of MVC framework.  • Extensive experience in implementing the AJAX features and efficient UI/DOM development with JQuery, HTML 5, CSS 3, JSON.  • Sound understanding of different browser's rendering engines, behaviors and cross browser compatibilities.  • Experience with front-end optimization, Firebug, IE Tester, Chrome DOM inspectors, JavaScript debugging techniques, improving website performance using applications like YSlow, PageSpeed etc.  • Thorough knowledge of internet concepts, sound understanding of data structures and algorithms.  • Experience in programming using OOP's concepts with PHP 5, Python to create complex back-end management systems like e-commerce, social networking tools, content management, communication interfaces.  • Experience and knowledge of PHP caching mechanisms like MemCache, real-time data streaming solution using PHP and AJAX like Comet, version control system like Git, SVN etc.  • Strong RDBMS skills with excellent knowledge of designing database, normalization, writing complex queries.  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process and experience working in Agile process which includes Requirements, Designing, Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance.  • Highly committed to work, success and quality of my work, organized, innovative, have "thinking out of the box" attitude. Ability to work with a sense of urgency in an aggressive, multi-tasking environment and meet deadlines.  • Ability to master new technologies and languages very quickly and with ease.  • Delivering and implementing project as scheduled and ensuring compliance to quality standards, Maintaining SLA as per defined norm.  • Overseeing the smooth implementation and testing as well as provide post-implementation, enhancement and maintenance support to Client Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Role Senior Software Engineer Riccione Resources - Dallas, TX August 2018 to Present Project Title: Time/Money/Forutne/Time For Kids    Responsibilities: • Development and Maintenance of time.com/money.com/fortune.com • Developemnt of timeforkids.com • Performance Improvement in various brands by upgrading technologies • Managing digital subscriptions • Automating regular manual jobs by using AWS tools • Created micorservices in Node JS • Created Reusable front end components in React JS • Designed & developed the Backed of the website/application incorporating the state & web accessibility standards using Wordpress, PHP.  • Used Express.JS as a service for routing • Involve in Change Management and Deployment activities in ACQUIA, AWS and Jenkins • Creating REST webservices and consuming webservices which will be used in both internal and vendors • Scrum Master Mentoring and Manage escalation.  • Identify operations opportunities and address them sharing with leadership.  • Continuous Improvement Reports & Operations Optimization (highlights).  • Root Cause Identification/Documentation.  • Migrated coderepos to GIT from SVN • Created test suite using chalk    Technologies: Wordpress, Node.JS, React JS, AWS, ACQUIA, AWS, PHP (Linux, Apache), MySQL, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, GIT, BitBucket., Express.JS Software Engineer hmhco.com June 2015 to August 2018 Project Title: Subscriptions Management    Responsibilities: • Development and Maintaince of multiple hmhco.com web based applications • Identify and fixing perfomence issues • Dealing with processing huge amount of data as a batch jobs • Worked with REST API to create and consume web services.  • Designed & developed the Frontend of the website/application incorporating the state & web accessibility standards using Wordpress, MySQL, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS.  • Created REST API in Laravel • Dealing Abode, and AWS web services • Implement best caching technologies • Defined Used Cases for several scenarios to help the project managers and the Quality Assurance team to the test out the application.  • Developed and configured several CRON jobs using Crontab utility in UNIX operating system.  • Prepared SDLC deliverables for this AGILE methodology project.  • Involved in assisting the project managers translating the business requirements into the Technical Specifications anticipating future enhancements to the applications.  Technologies: PHP, JS, JQuery, JQuery Mobile, Ajax, CSS, HTML, Bright cove, Adobe Search and Pramote, AWS, Wordpress, Mac, Apache, MAMP Software Engineer Apple.com CA April 2013 to June 2015 Project Title: Global Data center services    Responsibilities: • Designed Custom frontend for the website using various web designing applications such as PHP, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked closely with securing additional resource for the team and also worked in an Agile Environment.  • Worked with and maintained PHP database for the enhancement of the site and also wrote codes for the encryption of the data in the database.  • Designed and implemented user roles in PHP and MySQL and wrote JavaScript and JQuery scripts for minor bug fixes or errors.  • Analyze business requirements and change it into technical requirements to anticipate the future requirements.  • Worked with Management to create project specs and documentation and also designed, evaluated, enhanced, tested, troubleshoot and maintained PHP applications.  • Worked with financial platform and versioning software namely Git for software versioning and revision control system.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using HTML and CSS and also worked on client side form validations using JavaScript.  • Understanding the old system with the upcoming new system and was also involved in Manual Testing.  • Designed and documented functional and technical documents and also helped the DBA with the performance, integrity and security of the Database.  • Migrated coderepos from SVN to GIT  Technologies: PHP, JS, JQuery, JQuery Mobile, Ajax, CSS, HTML, SVN, GIT, Web services, CMS, Apple Connect, Mac, Apache, MAMP PHP Engineer Apple.com CA February 2011 to April 2013 Project Title: Apple iTunes    Responsibilities:- • Designed Custom frontend for the website using various web designing applications such as PHP, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked closely with securing additional resource for the team and also worked in an Agile Environment.  • Worked with and maintained PHP database for the enhancement of the site and also wrote codes for the encryption of the data in the database.  • Designed and implemented user roles in PHP and MySQL and wrote JavaScript and JQuery scripts for minor bug fixes or errors.  • Analyze business requirements and change it into technical requirements to anticipate the future requirements.  • Worked with Management to create project specs and documentation and also designed, evaluated, enhanced, tested, troubleshoot and maintained PHP applications.  • Worked with financial platform and versioning software namely Git for software versioning and revision control system.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using HTML and CSS and also worked on client side form validations using JavaScript.  • Understanding the old system with the upcoming new system and was also involved in Manual Testing.  • Designed and documented functional and technical documents and also Helped the DBA with the performance, integrity and security of the Database.  • Worked on REST API  Technologies: PHP, JS, JQuery, JQuery Mobile, Ajax, CSS, HTML, SVN, Web services, CMS, Apple Connect, Mac, Apache, MAMP PHP Developer Quardev Inc - Seattle, WA October 2010 to February 2011 Project Title: Web portal Management    Responsibilities;- • Preparation & review of design documents, review of business logics.  • Rewrite the existing web pages using XHTML, OO PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JQuery.  • Implemented the web pages for news, feeds, reviews, galleries.  • Utilized cookies, sessions to reduce the database transactions and to improve the performance.  • Code review, preparation of unit test cases, and execution of the same.  • Follow up with customer, other teams involved on various stages of the project.  • Supported QA activities, bug fixes for the issues reported.  • Documented the User Guides and technical help html documents.  • Supported production patch moves, scheduled monitor of the systems involved.  Technologies: PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, web services, REST API, Mac Software Developer Fisher Investments - Camas, WA August 2009 to October 2010 Project Title: Web portal Management    Responsibilities:- • Solely responsible for creating and maintaining Opera web portal • Developed many sub modules in Word press • Wrote REST API to exchange data to Opera clients • Integrated VPN • Integrated online chat • Wrote cron job for automating manual jobs • Wrote custom news letter module • Integrated PayPal • Developed 10+ web based applications to Opera client  Technologies: PHP, Word Press, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, web services, comet chat, Ubuntu, Apache Education Master in Computer Applications in Computer Applications Texas A&M University Skills Apache (9 years), CSS. (9 years), JQuery (9 years), MySQL (9 years), PHP. (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, React JS AJAX, JSX, ES6, JSON and CSS  Open Source Technologies: WordPress, and Laravel, Drupal (7.x, ) and Zend  Server side scripting: PHP, Node JS  Database: MySQL, PostgreSQL  Servers: Apache and Nginx  Web Services: SOAP, REST  Payment Gateway: PayPal,  Version Control: GIT, SVN  Tools: JIRA, Bitbucket, Radar and Rally  OS: MS Windows 98/ XP/Vista/7, Mac, Ubuntu