Sr. Tableau Developer Sr. Tableau <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Tableau Developer - TD Bank Mount Laurel, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Tableau Developer TD Bank - Mount Laurel, NJ April 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Working under ERM team to generate monthly tableau reporting.  ? Specifically working on Enterprise Level Issues data as part of Issues management team.  ? Tested, Cleaned, and Standardized Data to meet the business standards using Execute SQL task, Conditional Split, Data Conversion, and Derived column in different environments.  ? Interacted with Strategic Development Team, Business analyst and Nurse Managers to analyze business needs and developed technical specifications.  ? Created lot of custom reports for the pathologist using complex stored procedures and Crystal reports.  ? Built Reports and Dashboards on Tableau v10.1 at Risk Domain level and LOB level.  ? Published workbooks on to Tableau server v10, for audience to be able to have WEB based reports.  ? Used SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) to connect to SQL Server 2008 and access the Reporting Database.  ? Write SQL Queries, used joins to pull data from multiple Views.  ? Used SQL Server Import Export Wizard to Export Query data to Excel to perform Excel Analysis.  ? Utilized data analysis tools such as Tableau, SSMS, Excel to perform analysis and develop visualizations.  ? Worked to Automate the process of monthly Report Generation and have it available on the Server.  ? Worked on Live Version workbook, which has reports and dashboards based of the live data available in the Reporting database to audience. accessed by connecting to tableau sever from web browser.  ? Interacted with Application Development Team, who are the data owners, regarding data availability, flow, Fields to be published to Server Views, Promotion of Views from Test to QA, QA to Production.  ? Promoted reports from test to QA and QA to production after testing has been done. Involved in the all the testing phases.  ? Built charts with drill down functionality, interactive dashboards.  ? Built trending comparative reports such as month over month etc.  ? Used calculation features calculated fields, Table calculations etc. To create new dimensions/measures needs to perform analysis and reporting.  ? Extensively Use Data joining and Data Blending Techniques.  ? Collaborate with business users to document, interpret, and analyze user requirements. Developed formal business glossary and other functional and technical documentation.  Environment: Tableau Desktop 10.1, Tableau Server v10, SQL Server 2008, SSMS, Import/Export Wizard, MS Excel Sr. Tableau Developer Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO February 2016 to March 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Worked with senior leadership of Operations Team to streamline reporting and analytics processes and engagements.  ? Generated Tableau Dashboard with quick/context/global filters, parameters and calculated fields on Tableau (7.x) reports.  ? Created Tableau Dashboards with interactive views, trends and drill downs along with user level security.  ? Build several dashboards in Tableau for analysis using multiple data sources.  ? Prepared migration and resource utilization plan and matrices to migrate Reports build in SSRS to Tableau 9.0 version  ? Build several proof of concepts dashboards in Tableau to lay framework of analytics  ? Tested, Cleaned, and Standardized Data to meet the business standards using PL/SQL, Data Conversion, and Derived column.  ? Created Tableau Dashboards with interactive views, trends and drill downs along with user level security.  ? Created and developed Parameterized, Drill Down and AD Hoc Reports.  ? Create complex calculations including string manipulation, advanced arithmetic calculations, aggregations and ratios, date math, logic statements and quick table calculations  ? Worked on building queries to retrieve data into Tableau from SQL Server 2008 and Oracle SQL Developer, and developed T-SQL statements for loading data into Target Database.  ? Implements Tableau Maps and heat map analysis using locations in dashboards  ? Implemented Actions and Data Filters in Tableau across multiple dashboards  ? Implemented Row level security in Tableau and worked with multiple data sources using Data Blending  ? Built Master pipeline dashboard in Tableau using custom parameters and actions enabling country wide on field brokers and agent keep live track productivity and current nationwide pipeline.  ? Conducted Performance tuning using three-layer tuning - Workbook design, deployment optimization and Environment control.  ? Customized the tooltips and labels, to user understandable desired format, the numerical measure was changed to its appropriate formats like currency values, Date Formats etc.  ? Implemented sets to display Top N projects based on business defined conditions in a portfolio  ? Scheduled Reports according to the monthly, weekly or daily  ? Worked with DBA's to build several to load data into target database.  Environment: Tableau 9.3, Oracle 11.2, SQL Server 2008, Informatica 9.5, MS Excel Tableau Developer/Consultant Western Union - Meridian, CO November 2014 to January 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Gathered requirements to implement OBIEE Security (Object Level and Data Level Security in the OBIEE Repository and Answers) using Repository Variables, Session Variables  ? Created and deployed SSIS packages using various transformations such as Slowly Changing Dimension, Multicast, Merge Join, Lookup, Fuzzy Lookup, Conditional Split, Aggregate, Derived Column, and Data Conversion Transformations.  ? Fine \tuned SQL Queries for maximum efficiency and performance.  ? Designed and implemented data warehouse architecture for corporate circulation data warehouse. Subsequent data marts, extracts and reports were sourced from the architecture of conformed facts and dimensions  ? Worked closely with Stakeholders, Project sponsors, Senior Management to gather requirements to develop end to end Case management system covering HR, Employee Relations, GL Accounts  ? Designed processes to replace paper based systems and legacy systems.  ? Implements wireframe methodology to prepare prototype dashboards to design overall processes integration  ? Built Functional Specifications, Data Mapping Sheets, Data flow Diagrams for technical team to start build phase  ? Conducted Gap analysis workshops with stakeholders and business teams for various subject areas  ? Worked on migration of catalogues and metadata repository from 10g to 11g  ? Created Global Prompts, Charts, Pivot Tables, Compound layouts to design the interactive dashboards.  ? Worked on BI Publisher importing data from the data source and delivered Reports, common dashboards, metadata, security, calculation, caching, and intelligent request generation services  ? Developed detail functional test plans to test end to end process.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration testing to verify report functionality and debugged dashboard reports to verify data matches as expected. Understand the Requirements and Spend Analytics scope. And functionality of the application from specifications.  ? Built Dashboards showcasing relation with vendors and their procurement operations.  ? Worked closely with Business users. Interacted with ETL developers, Project Managers, and members of the QA teams.  ? Created Tableau scorecards, dashboards using stack bars, bar graphs, scattered plots, geographical maps, Gantt charts.  ? Worked extensively with Advance Analysis Actions, Calculations, Parameters, Background images, Maps.  ? Extensively used data blending, embed functionalities in Tableau.  ? Building, publishing customized interactive reports and dashboards, report scheduling using Tableau server. Creating New Schedules and checking the tasks daily on the server.  ? Creating users, groups, projects, Data connections, settings as a tableau administrator.  ? Connect to Oracle directly, created the dimensions, hierarchies, and levels on Tableau desktop.  ? Performed SQL reporting. wrote SQL queries.  ? Created numerous dashboards in Tableau Desktop based on the data collected from Mobile Banking App by importing and blending data from MS Excel and CSV files.  ? Developed Geo/Area Maps to show details on which states are most connected using the App vs. the least states.  ? Created Bar Charts which is complied with data sets and added trend lines and forecasting on future usage of the Mobile App.  ? Created Crosstab's to display underlying data based on various graphs and charts created for further data analysis.  ? Developed Scatter Plots and Area Maps to show states utilizing the Mobile App most vs. least.  ? Complied interactive dashboards in Tableau Desktop and published them to Tableau Server that allowed story telling behind the Mobile App usage with Quick Filters for on demand needed information with just a click of a button.  ? Developed and reviewed SQL queries with use of joins clauses (inner, left, right) in Tableau Desktop to validate static and dynamic data for data validation.  ? Performed data analysis on daily, weekly, and monthly scheduled refresh of data based on that business or system change that have happened to ensure that the developed dashboards are displaying accurate and up-to-date live data and sent those into production after editing.  Environment: Tableau Desktop 8.2, Tableau server OBIEE, SQL Server 2008 Sr. SQL Developer Guide Well Source - Jacksonville, FL December 2012 to July 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Transformed data from different data sources like Oracle, Flat files, SQL data bases to SQL Server 2008 using OLEDB connection providers by creating various SSIS packages. Data is transformed from hub (ODS) to data warehouse.  ? Used SSIS to create ETL packages (.dtsx files) to validate, extract, transform and load data from ODS to related destination databases for residential, business, large business users.  ? Created SQL server Analysis Projects and created multi-dimensional databases and OLAP cubes and dimensions for the analysis of capacity planning task in specific areas for departmental manager using SSAS.  ? Migrated the data from the appropriate databases to end database and maintained batch log files. Involved in the usage of variables to make the packages dynamic and scheduling the package in SSIS (sequential scheduling).  ? Implemented AD HOC reporting with the report builder for the end users. Involved in scheduling reports to run weekly, quarterly, monthly based on the data to be reviewed by the manager.  ? Generating Drill- through, Drill down, Matrix, Snapshot reports using the data from the Data warehouse using SSRS with Microsoft Share Point Integration 2007.  ? Effectively used Normalization and De-Normalization techniques for both OLTP and OLAP systems in creating Database Objects like tables, Constraints and Indexes.  ? Involved in identifying and creating data sources and data source views in SSAS. Involved in Creating Dimensions and Cubes and deployed it on to the server for the managers to analyze the ongoing production support for the application as required.  ? implemented the elements of T-SQL like dynamic stored procedure to store and update the information regarding residential, business and large business customers into one centralized SQL database called hub.  ? Enhanced the business logic using User Defined Functions to retrieve information on the services like Retailers Debit, Credit etc.  ? Created indexes on the database tables and generated trace events to improve the query performance and optimize data access.  Environment: MSSQL Server 2008/2005, SSIS 2008/2005, SSRS 2008/2005 with Microsoft Share Point Integration 2007, SSAS 2008, MS Excel Software Engineer Forsys Software - IN February 2011 to November 2012 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Creation, manipulation and supporting the SQL Server databases.  ? Involved in the Data modeling, Physical and Logical Design of Database  ? Created tables, indexes, sequences, constraints, triggers and procedures.  ? Stored procedures and triggers were used to implement business rules.  ? Helped in integration of the front end with the SQL Server backend.  ? Used DDL and DML for writing triggers, stored procedures and data manipulation.  ? Import & Export of data from one server to other servers using tools like Data Transformation Services (DTS).  ? Wrote T-SQL statements for retrieval of data and involved in performance tuning of T-SQL queries.  ? Managed rollback segments, and table spaces to ensure less space used by the database.  ? Created documentation on the all the tables, stored procedures, views and user defined functions.  Environment: MS SQL Server 2000, Windows Server, Erwin V4.0, Visual SourceSafe, Crystal reports, DTS Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science & Engineering DY Patil Institute of Technology / Pune University - Pune, Maharashtra 2011 Skills Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Informatica, Ssrs, Tableau, Teradata, Tableau desktop, Tableau server, Rdbms, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Visio, Linux, Java, Microsoft office, Ms visio, Mac, Bi Additional Information ? Result-driven IT Professional with referable 8+ years of experience in Software Development, Integration, Implementation and Maintenance of Business Intelligence applications along with strong experience and passion on Analytics, data visualization and telling story.  ? Expertise in performing BI Role. gathering requirements, analysis, modeling, design, and development of reports and dashboards for analytics and reporting applications.  ? Hands on expertise on Tableau desktop v9/v10, Tableau server and Tableau Reader.  ? Extensive experience creating ad-hoc reports in Tableau Desktop.  ? Highly skilled on various Tableau functionalities like Tableau Extracts, Parameters, Filters, Contexts, Data Source Filters, Actions, Functions, Trends, Sets, Groups, Calculations and Maps etc.,  ? Experience in creating visualizations using Bars, Lines and Pies, Maps, Scatter plots, Gantt charts, Bubbles, Histograms, Bullets, Heat maps and Highlight tables.  ? Practical understanding of the Data Modeling Dimensional Relational concepts like Star-Schema Modeling, Snowflake Schema Modeling, Fact and Dimension tables.  ? Mastered in joining tables, multiple data connections using blending, worked on Data Extracts and managing queries.  ? Exposure to Hadoop and Big Data Technologies.  ? Expertise in Data Warehouse and complete BI Cycle (DB, ETL, DWH, Reporting).  ? Versatile team player with excellent analytical, inter-personnel and presentation skill with ability to quickly adapt to new technologies & project environments.    Technical competencies:    Operating Systems: Windows, Mac, LINUX  Languages: C, SQL, TSQL, PL/SQL, Java Script  Tools: Tableau Desktop v8/v9/v10.1, Tableau Server v8/v10, Alteryx, Informatica, SSIS, SSRS, SSMS  Databases: RDBMS - SQL Server, Oracle, Teradata  Other Tools and Packages: SQL Server Management studio, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Office, MS Visio, SQL Developer, TOAD  BI Package: Tableau Desktop, Tableau Server, Tableau Public, Tableau Reader, Tableau Online