Senior Java developer Senior Java <span class="hl">developer</span> Senior Java developer - Technosoft Corporation Mechanicsburg, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java developer Technosoft Corporation - Mechanicsburg, PA November 2018 to Present Contributed to all phases of software development life cycle while creating large-scale applications as well as middle-tier and backend systems.    Tasks Performed:  ? Development of scalable microservices for Health business requirements.  ? Agile team member.  ? Performed User stories refinement, Sprint Review, Retrospective and Hardening.  ? Performed code and design enhancements while solving internal and external defects.  ? Recommended bug fixes and enhancements during daily scrums.  ? Coded bug-free, clean modules and implemented successfully.  ? Created multiple enterprise-level business solutions.  ? Generated and analyzed user requirements.  ? Involved in project planning, implementation, and testing.  Achievements:  ? Completed POC for new microservices architecture for the existing monolithic application.  ? Development of scalable microservices to replace the existing monolithic application.  Technologies used: ASF: Azure Service Fabric, Spring Boot 2, Spring Framework 5, Spring Cloud Sleuth, IntelliJ, Oracle DB, Hibernate, Spring Actuator, Swagger UI for documentation, Sequence diagram for modelling, Weblogic, IBM ALM, SVN, SonarLint, TDD, Eureka, Circuit breaker, , TDD, Sonarcube, Sonarlint, JIRA, JSP, Javascript, HTML, Jquery Java developer AgreeYa Solution Inc - Piscataway, NJ July 2018 to October 2018 Contributed to all phases of software development life cycle while creating large-scale applications as well as middle-tier and backend systems.    Tasks Performed:  ? Participated in all phases of the project like design, development, testing, enhancements and production support.  ? Regular assignments involved designing and developing Java, SQL and JavaScript.  ? Developed and supported all tiers of the application - UI/Business Logic/Database  ? Development with Core Java, J2EE, Microservices, REST API, Spring boot, Angular, CSS, HTML 5, Tomcat, MVC architecture.  ? Handle Service Request tickets to debug, investigate and fix bugs found in production environments.  ? End-to-End Systems Analysis and Design.  ? Communicate and coordinate with QA Team and business team members to understand the requirements and ensure the development is executed in a timely manner and satisfy the requirement.  ? Validate that programs are operating on clean, correct and useful data.  ? Involved in testing, debugging, bugs fixing and documentation of the system.    Technologies used: Java, XML, JSON, Oracle, AccuRev, Toad, Maven, Web Logic, IntelliJ, Stream API and Lambda, Windows, Linux, Redis, Elastic Search, NoSQL, Microservices. Full Stack Developer UNION BANK OF NIGERIA PLC. Lagos - Lagos, NG October 2017 to December 2017 Contributed to all phases of software development life cycle while creating large-scale applications as well as middle-tier and backend systems.    Tasks Performed:  ? Designed custom APIs to transfer data from HTTP to mobile, ATM, and web apps.  ? Coded bug-free, clean modules and implemented successfully.  ? Created multiple enterprise-level business solutions.  ? Generated and analyzed user requirements.  ? Spearheaded project planning, implementation, and testing.  ? Developed web pages by implementing JSP for Internet banking and loan application.  Achievements:  ? Maximized mobile app performance by converting XML-based services to RESTful Microservice APIs, resulting in 25% increase in customer enrolment.  ? Streamlined batch transaction processing and eliminated duplicate posting in customer accounts by implementing Quartz, which reduced support issues and removed semi-manual process.  Technologies used: Java, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON, Oracle, GIT, TFS, MS Visual Studio, Toad, Quartz, Maven, Rabbit MQ, Web Logic, NetBeans, Ehcache, Redis, Stream API and Lambda, Windows, Linux. Senior Software Engineer INTERSWITCH GROUP LIMITED NIGERIA - Lagos, NG January 2014 to October 2017 Lagos, Nigeria ? Jan 2014- Oct 2017  Technology Company specializing in integration, payment infrastructure, and digital commerce.    Senior Software Engineer  Developed large-scale applications and implemented middle-tier and backend systems.    Tasks Performed:  ? Managed team of 5 developers during development of custom APIs and multiple enterprise-level business solutions.  ? Performed code and design enhancements while solving internal and external defects.  ? Recommended bug fixes and enhancements during daily scrums.  ? Implemented resolutions to customer issues as part of support team.  ? Interfaced with 3rd party applications and services to utilize custom in-house and off-the-shelf controls.  Achievements:  ? Led development of Interswitch Financial Inclusion Services (IFIS) framework to provide banking services to rural communities with no access to banking facilities and Internet infrastructure in Nigeria, creating new revenue line for company.  ? Improved migration of postilion 4 framework to postilion 5 framework.  Technologies used: Java, C#, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, JSON, MS SQL Server, GIT, JIRA, Confluence, HTML5, CSS, Angular (Basic), IntelliJ, Eclipse, MS Visual Studio, Quartz, Jenkins, Chef, Maven, Rabbit MQ, Tomcat, Source Tree, Hibernate, JSP, JDBC Template, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, REST API, Microservices), Ehcache, Redis, Stream API and Lambda Windows, Linux. Business Application Developer BLUECHIP TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED NIGERIA - Lagos, NG March 2012 to December 2013 Lagos, Nigeria ? March 2012- Dec 2013  Provider of business intelligence, data warehousing, data management, and enterprise architecture.    Business Application Developer  Developed enterprise applications for banking facility.    Tasks Performed:  ? Designed Oracle Packages, procedures, functions, and shell UNIX scripting.  ? Integrated PLSQL to external systems.  ? Established improved workflow procedures.  ? Analyzed system and initiated support.  ? Performed staff training and needs analysis.    Achievements:  ? Led reengineering of Customer Data Master System (CDMS) to streamline data generation and information updates for fraud detection and prevention, providing more data for management information system.  Technologies used: C#, PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ASP.NET, AJAX, XML, MS SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, MS Visual Studio, Toad, SSRS, Crystal Report, IIS, WAMP, Windows, Linux. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in distance education Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA 2020 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Ibadan Skills Spring, Java J2Ee, Java, Hibernate