Senior Program Analyst Senior Program Analyst Senior Program Analyst - Verizon Dallas, TX • Having 7+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Migration, Production support and Implementation of Software applications.  • Skilled Java Developer driven to exceed customer expectations with cutting-edge applications. Knowledgeable about the latest technologies and most useful programming languages with 6 years of development experience.  • 5+ years of Java experience in software analysis, development and implementation of applications utilizing Java, JSP, JavaScript, SQL Server, HTML, XML, Eclipse, JBPM, Camunda and Enterprise application Integrations.  • Experience in Design, Analysis, Development, Deployment and Maintaining of BPM application using JBPM 6.4 Business Suite and Camunda.  • Wide-ranging Experience in generating Work Flows, User Forms, Gateways using JBPM and Camunda.  • Good knowledge on using debugging and performance tools like Clipboard, Tracer, Performance Analyzer (PAL) and System Management Application (SMA).  • Good knowledge in database programming using SQL, PL/SQL and implementing triggers, stored procedures.  • Involved in building and deploying MAVEN scripts, Apache CXF debugging through logging frameworks like Log4j, automated build tool with Jenkins.  • Experience in Developing and Monitoring workflows to deploy in Camunda Cockpit and JBPM KIE WorkBench.  • Ability to solve technical issues in Production Environment.  • Ample experience in gathering, documenting and analyzing business requirements and worked on many project methodologies like Waterfall, RUP, Scrum and Agile.  • Command over UML (System Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Deployment Diagrams and Class Diagrams)  • Experience in creating unit testing framework using Junit.  • Experienced with working on Operating Systems like UNIX and Windows.  • Self-Motivated, energetic, self-starter with excellent analytical, organizational and creative skills.  • Gifted and focused Software Developer capable of working in highly functional teams. Willing and enthusiastic about resolving challenges efficiently and quickly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Program Analyst Verizon - Dallas, TX May 2019 to Present • Involved in meetings with project managers, Users and other development teams in developing a coherent view of the system.  • Designing and developing process in KIE Workbench.  • Involved in design and analysis of end to end business flow.  • Working on enhancements to application that comes as a new requirement. Camunda Developer AT&T Inc - Houston, TX August 2017 to April 2019 • Participated in client requirement documents by helping to finalize the document to develop the required application from the Business Analysts.  • Installed Camunda and set up Tomcat for using Camunda as Shared, container-managed Process Engine.  • Used Spring core, Spring MVC in the application development and Hibernate framework was used for DAO layer for one of the application modules.  • Developed the application as per the functional requirements from the Business Analysts  • Used Spring Core, Spring MVC in the application development and Hibernate framework was used for DAO layer for one of the application modules.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Servlets, JSP, and Spring MVC.  • Developed using DAO Design Pattern to insert and update the data.  • Designing and developing web solutions using Java, HTML 5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Developed the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Implemented a reusable component in JavaScript for Ajax calls and processing JSON responses back from the server.  • Bugs tracking and fixing are done through Quality Center.  • Implemented Log4j for logging and developed test cases using JUnit.  • Involved in unit testing and regression testing of the trustee application.  • Helped in developing the complete business flow and helped incorporate session validity checks, validations and error handling in the application.  • Used Web Services to extract and communicate the records using XML and REST  • Developed the UML use cases and Sequence diagrams  • Worked in an agile environment with sprint cycle of 15 days.  • Participated in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the applications.  Environment: Java / Java EE, JSON, Oracle 11g Database, Spring, Hibernate, Camunda, HTML, CSS3, JSP, Servlets, Tomcat7.2, JavaScript, Log 4j, Junit, GIT, Web Services, REST, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, JQuery/Ajax, Junit, Maven 2.0, Servlets, XML, XHTML. JBPM Developer Wells Fargo - Atlanta, GA December 2015 to July 2017 • Involved in enabling security and access control to the application by creating different levels of access to various business users and developers i.e. groups, roles.  • Deployment of applications to application servers making sure that security of the applications follows high security standards.  • Involved in design processes in JBPM editor, use provided API'S in JBPM engine to run business functions, end-to-end workflow Implementation.  • KIE Workbench configuration  • Designed JBPM implementation cycle, including business process modeling, development, testing and deployment.  • Working on Linux environment to deploy the application on the host JBoss server.  • Analyzing test results in daily meetings with project advisors, testing team and Business Analyst to recommend modification according to project requirement.  • Participate in daily meetings to analyze the requirements with business team and share the feedback and best practices.  • Monitoring JBPM work flow and application, database performance in UAT region.  • Working on enhancements to application that comes as new requirement and fixing defects that were identified in QA and UAT environments.  • Performed tasks which involved with SQL databases to fetch data and with SOAP/Web services to review specific data.  • Automate the existing manual process in and as a JBPM workflow.  • Involved in Automating human tasks as well by creating reusable bots following code standards using RPA tool.  • Worked on Database mapping, acquiring remote database connection and other database related operations.  • Worked on stabilizing environments.  • Worked with offshore teams in resolving Functional /Technical queries raised by the development team.  • Involved in PROD support and Bug fixes as well.  • Involved in meetings with project managers, Users and other development teams in developing a coherent view of the system.  • Worked closely with quality assurance team and performed unit testing.  • Developed SOAP Services to provide service to external systems.  • Performed Code Review and provided the suggestions for the changes to improve the code quality and performance of the system.  • Worked closely with other developers on development challenges and resolved them as a team.  Environment: JBPM 7/6.4 Business suite, Java, HTML, XML, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat 7. Software Engineer/Java Developer AEM India Pvt Ltd - Delhi, Delhi November 2007 to January 2011 India  • Worked in team projects.  • Client discussions to gather requirements.  • Worked with Project Managers to manage the project scope, identify & deploy the appropriate resources to support the systems development efforts.  • Drawing used case, association, class, activity Diagrams prototype design.  • Developed front-end screens with HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script and JSP's. Extensively done client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Involved in coding to build scripts to build and deploy the applications.  • As a Developer, coordinate with onsite team and client in understanding the business process and requirement understanding.  • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed several web pages using HTML and Java Script to perform validations at Client's side.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers, functions and database tables in Oracle and MySQL database.  • Participated in Code Review and Quality Assurance.  • Used JDBC, Application Server provided transaction API for accessing data from the Oracle the using standard statements.  • Preparation and review of Unit Test Plan, Unit Testing, Test Results review and other quality related work.  Environment: JDK 1.2, NetBeans, Apache Tomcat Server 3.0, AJAX, JUNIT, Oracle 8i, JSP 1.1, JNDI 1.2, HTML, JDBC 2.0, CSS, JavaScript, Windows. Software Trainee Benchmark Techo Fabs - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2005 to March 2007 India  • Developed the GUI and did the testing of applications developed by the Company for more than 6 months.  • Played a pivotal role in designing and coding.  • Enhanced analytical & systematic skills by working on Workflow Forecasting, Planning & Scheduling. Education Bachelor's Skills .net, C++, Html, Javascript, Json, Php, Scripting, Visio, Xml, Eclipse, Java, Jboss, jquery, Css, Dhtml, Iis, Iis 6, Iis 7, Tomcat, Web services Certifications/Licenses Driver's License