Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - RxSense Missouri • 8+ years of experience in analysis, design, development, testing and maintenance of object-oriented, client-server and multi-tier Windows and webapplicationsusing.NET framework.  • Expertise in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle, Agile and Waterfall methodologies including requirements definition, design, programming / testing and implementation of major systems.  • Experience in developing applications using ASP.NET, MVC Framework, C#.NET, VB.NET, WCF, Win Forms, ADO.NET, Web Services, Remoting, XML, JavaScript, HTML, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, LINQ, LINQ-To-SQL, Multi-Threading, JQUERY and AngularJS.  • Sound knowledge of SOA principles and design patterns.  • Good knowledge in writing and understanding WCF, REST API Web Services.  • Involved in the design and development of 3-Tier, N-tier distributed architectures and MVC, MVVM architectures.  • Working experience in Web services, Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) and Windows Workflow Foundation (WWF)  • Experience in creating use case diagrams, class diagrams, activity diagrams, sequence diagrams, page flow diagrams using UML technologies.  • Experience in writing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers and Views using SQLSERVER, Oracle and User Defined Functions using T-SQL and PL/SQL.  • Developed custom directives (elements, Attributes and classes) using Angular.JS and for single page applications using Angular.JS.  • Experience in developing Custom Reports and distributed reports in multiple formats using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) also expertise in working with Crystal Reports.  • Experience in designing, configuring Enterprise level security for .NET framework applications, and implementing Code Access Security.  • Proficient with Test Automation using testing tools like Quick Test Professional, Coded UI and Selenium.  • Involved in Unit testing and bug fixing of the system.  • Strong knowledge in using ADO.NET objects such as SQL/OLEDB Connection and Command, Data Reader, Dataset, Data Adapter and State Management, View state.  • Developed the required Business Layer of the application using C#. NET and implemented the logic using C#.NET.  • Experience with Oracle SQL and PL/SQL programming and used Database utility programs like TOAD and SQL Navigator.  • Experience in implementing Web Services, WCF, Web API, RESTful API Services, SOAP, WSDL and XML which communicate data using XML & JSON.  • Involved in testing different interfaces and web application for FACETS.  • Created and updated Facets program interfaces and program improvements.  • Write Power shell scripts for user management.  • Engage and train system administrators on core competencies of PowerShell to automate as much as they can.  • Developed and migrated ASP forms to ASP.Net Web forms using C#.  • Extensively used Data Grid and Repeaters, implemented sessions concept.  • Developed the classes using C#.NET and ASP.NET, which incorporate three-tier architecture and database connectivity.  • Experience working on Frameworks like Bootstrap, Foundation, Angular.js, Backbone.js, React.js, Node.js, Knockout.js and Media Queries  • Expert in design and development of Front-end Web Application with JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap.  • Experience on implementing Azure Application Insights and OMS for monitoring applications and servers. Solution development for OMS Alerting and Remediation.  • Involved on migrating SQL Server databases to SQL Azure Database using SQL Azure Migration Wizard. Deployed application to Azure Cloud.  • Worked with ASP.NET Web Forms, Web Services and State Management techniques, caching features, configuring optimizations and securing the web application.  • Familiar with JavaScript libraries like Knockout JS and Bootstrap templates and Angular Js 8 framework.  • Worked in testing tools like N-Unit, Microsoft Testing Tools  • Responsible for creating knockout components and custom bindings using knockout.JS.  • Broad understanding and implementation of Object-Oriented Analysis and Designing (OOAD), for system design and development and Design Patterns like MVC Patterns.  • Skills in creating Rich Internet Applications (RIA) using HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Prototype & CSS.  • Developed OLAP multidimensional (cube) databases with SQL Server BI (BIDS and SSAS) accessed via the ASP.NET web pages for the executives.  • Experience in working with JavaScript frameworks such as Angular.JS, Node.JS and JQuery.  • Responsible in security of application by using authentication and authorization mechanisms.  • Strong Object-Oriented Programming concepts like Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism, Generics and Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) Concepts.  • Experience in writing Test Plans and Test Cases in Microsoft's Test Manager, based on system requirements.  • Familiarity with Microsoft Test Manager as a Test Management Tool in defect logging, assignment and tracking through Microsoft Test Manager.  • Development was done using agile methodology with daily scrums, paired programming using TDD and continuous integration using the SDLC process. Work Experience Software Engineer RxSense - Detroit, MI December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete Software development lifecycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, implementation, testing and maintenance.  • Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions.  • Used ASP.NET MVC framework to support the use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself.  • Used ASP.NET MVC page control pattern to accept input from the page request and to invoke the requested actions.  • Responsible for Designing and Developing the Reusable UI Components Like MVC Master Pages "Layouts and Nested Layouts", "View Start" and MVC User Controls "Partial Views".  • Designed and implemented the user interface& validations using, JQuery, HTML5, XML, CSS3.  • Angular JS Ajax module is used to handle Restful API calls to enable communication between view components and server.  • Developed custom Angular JS directives to build custom reusable modules to use across the application Used SOAP to Implement Web Services and Consumed and published XML web services in the application.  • Designed and developed a web application by using Angular 5 as front-end and using Web API to receive and pass data to back-end.  • Created Entity classes, relationships between entity classes using LINQ (Language Integrated Query) to SQL to manage relational data as objects with Entity Framework Code First approach.  • Implemented Code First and used LINQ to Entities to massage the Data and optimized the Query Expressions.  • Customized Restful API Web Service using Web API, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  • Worked on REST API based Http methods and implemented GET, POST, PUT, PATCH and DELETE operations.  • Data Access layer for the application was implemented in ADO.NET for data input, queries, retrieval and management.  • Designed and maintained database in MSSQL Server Created tables, views, user defined functions, stored procedures and triggers using Enterprise Manager and Query Analyzer.  • Developed queries, Stored Procedures, Views and Triggers for accessing data from the MS SQL server 2012.  • Migrated and converted crystal reports into SQL server reporting services (SSRS) by using MS SQL server Reporting Services.  • Used TFS for version control and JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management.  • Involved in Unit Testing and Integration Testing of the entire application.  Environment: VS 2015, .NET framework 4.5, MS Visio, ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET 4.5, ADO.NET, IIS, Web services, XML, WCF, Angular JS, JavaScript, AJAX and SQL server 2012, SSRS, TFS. Sr .Net Developer CareSource - Dayton, OH January 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the SDLC phase of requirement analysis, design, and development of the web-based intranet application tool using ASP.NET MVC and VB.NET.  • Used VB.NET for MVC Framework for front end development  • Involved in User Interface which was implemented in ASP.NET using Web controls, Resource Files, Master pages, AJAX Components, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Worked on creating new modules for application and responsible for working on full stack development of it including designing Angular.JS controllers.  • Involved in designing and developing the GUI for the user interface with various controls.  • Responsible to create new web services using ASP.NET with C#.  • Converted web service ASMX to Web API service methods for better performance to fetch data from the server called from client-side.  • Worked on Knockout JavaScript and good exposure to Angular.JS.  • Refactored and enhanced an existing application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance, code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spins up, enhanced performance using Angular.JS.  • Redesigned classic ASP.NET web pages to ASP.NET MVC using Knockout JS for a Utility company client.  • Experience with MVVM model for WPF with Silverlight 5.0 at the front end.  • Created SSIS packages to extract data from OLTP to OLAP systems and Scheduled Jobs to call the packages and Stored Procedures.  • Responsible for designing the ASP.NET application authentication using .NET Framework, Model View Controller MVC and IIS security model.  • Provide Support to other teams to fetch the data from the centralized database using ASP.NET XML Web Services.  • Used Angular.JS and Knockout.JS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Extensively involved in component development using front end web development tools like CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Converted .Net application to Microsoft Azure Cloud Service Project as part of cloud deployment.  • Designed and developed the application on ASP.NET MVC 4.0 Framework.  • Developed & deployed Web Services (SOAP, UDDI & WSDL) and Windows Services in C# and VB.NET.  • Extensively used Validation Controls and JavaScript for client-side validations in the Web Pages.  • Assist in developing custom Web parts for application support toolset. Routinely troubleshoot issues and support internal users.  • Developed U-SQL Scripts for schematizing the data in Azure Data Lake Analytics  • Configured and deployed Azure Automation Scripts for a multitude of applications utilizing the Azure stack (Including Compute, Web & Mobile, Blobs, ADF, Resource Groups, Azure Data Lake, HDInsight Clusters, Azure Data Factory, Azure SQL, Cloud Services, and ARM), Services and Utilities focusing on Automation.  • Used Azure OMS & Power BI for visualizing the activities. Worked on Azure App Insights, Alerts and Log Analytics for Monitoring as part of OMS.  • Automate processes with PowerShell scripts. DNS changes, DC builds, User management.  • Involved in database design, relational integrity constraints, OLAP, OLTP and normalizations  • Solid experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) based on client-side JavaScript framework Angular JS, and backbone employing ASP.NET MVC and Web API.  • Implemented and consumed Web Services using WPF to support distributed computing and to enable applications to communicate with each other.  • Consumed Web services using WCF and WPF for online transactions using C# and exposed them through HTTP.  • Used LINQ along with ADO.NET for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation of different data sources like XML, SQL.  • Used Active directory to provide a central location for network administration and security authentication for the users.  • Led the design and development of SOAP/REST based web services in Java, middle-ware modules, proof-of-concept (POC's), libraries  • Modifications were made to the existing GUI using WPF for better look and feel.  • Migrated SQLServer2008 database to Windows Azure SQL Database and updating the Connection Strings based on this.  • Assisted in quality assurance measures such as code reviews, test case creation and unit testing for different modules.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the application.  • Participated in UNIT testing of the application and wrote the test cases to test each of the application modules with the help of NUnit.  Environment: ASP.NET 4.0, MVC 4.0, C#, ADO.NET, VB.NET, Angular JS, EDM, Visual Studio 2013, Web API, Pervasive SQL Database, Amazon Web Service, Office 365, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft SQL, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, OLAP, Web Services, Kendo UI, Angular 4, IIS 7.0, Azure, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, HTML5, CSS. Net Engineer Lumeris - St. Louis, MO September 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on a part of the GUIs to improve interface without affecting the performance of the application.  • Gathered Client requirements and converting them into the Technical Specifications and developed Web forms using C#.NET  • Developed ASP.NET MVC4 application in Test Driven Development environment using Microsoft Test as the Testing framework.  • Extensively used the various Object-Oriented Programming concepts of C# and ASP in implementing the pages.  • Used Microsoft Entity Framework Code First approach for the Data Access Layer for the ASP.NETMVC4 application.  • Worked closely with Business Teams and Technical Design Architects to understand the flow and client enhancements to the existing applications along with the QA Team.  • Used C#. NET as a language to develop code behind business logic.  • Created new model classes in Web API to hold data.  • Developed basic web-based application using VB.NET and C#.NET for various desktop applications used in the company.  • Developed dynamic SQL queries for reports on Enterprise Data Warehouse (OLAP) and Operational database (OLTP) Created Custom Logging in SSIS packages.  • Involved in team to implement and development for Enrollment for HIPPA and Facets. (HIPPA Gateway, Trizetto Facets)  • Maintain and the several RPA bots as batch processes on daily basis and ensure quality and high performance to the internal and vendor applications of the organization.  • Created shared dimension tables, measures, hierarchies, levels, cubes and aggregations on MS OLAP/ Analysis Server (SSAS)  • Followed the N-Tier Pattern, separating the business, presentation and data models.  • Developed and tested user-friendly navigators by utilizing JavaScript and VB .NET  • Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET MVC Framework (C#.NET, ADO.NET)  • Involved in UNIT testing and Bug Fixing for specific modules as well as integrated modules.  • Programming, prototyping and consulting on "front end" UI features using JavaScript, HTML5/CSS3, with back end developers to implement AJAX and dynamic HTML functionality mixed with ColdFusion.  • Worked with Language Integrated Query (LINQ) to query the data against the database (LINQ to SQL), dataset (LINQ to dataset), XML (LINQ to XML)  • Assisted in the conduction of bet support and high-level release testing using VB.NET.  • Used ADO.NET objects like Data Reader, Data Adapter and Dataset, Data Grid for data access.  • Strong experience designing and working with n-tier architectures (UI, Business Logic Layer, Data Access Layer) along with some experience with service-oriented architectures (SOA)  • Created WCF Service to retrieve and send information from client side without post-back.  • Used Data binding to bind Server controls with the parameters from the tables in the database  • Consumed WebAPI to overcome numerous issues and expand capabilities to existing legacy code.  • Responsible for maintaining versions, Reverse and forward integration of code branches to Main branch of source code using Team Foundation Server 2010.  • Worked on Agile Methodology to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Implemented changes in coding and designs using knowledge of VB .NET.  • Used MVC design pattern to develop business logic and UI part.  • Excellent working experience on n-Tier and layered architecture, Service Oriented Apps, Load Balancing, Session.  • Management, Webform applications and Single Page Applications (SPA)  • Fixed various bugs and defect, which are managed on "HP Quality Center Application" with collaboration of QA/Test team.  • Responsible for designing the ASP.NET application authentication using .NET Framework, Model View Controller MVC and IIS security model.  • Involved in testing like a Unit test, Integration test, Acceptance test and Regression testing using NUnit and responsible for writing test scripts and scenarios  • Bi-weekly code reviews, deployments and maintenance.  Environment: ASP.NET 4.0, MVC 3.0, C#, ADO.NET, VB .NET, Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2008 R2, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, OLAP, Angular JS, MVVM, TFS 2010, Azure, Office 365, Java Script, JQuery, XML, AJAX, DHTML, HTML5, CSS. Sr.Net Developer Multiplan - Chicago, IL July 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed intranet web application using ASP.NET MVC framework.  • Developed extensive client-side scripts and validation functions using JavaScript.  • Followed the Scrum Agile Methodology during development of the project.  • Used custom controls and User controls for designing screens in Client application.  • Extensively used AJAX for partial page execution and asynchronous data transfer from web server to the client.  • Extensively created and deployed WCF services, implemented binding, endpoints and service Contracts.  • Developed user interfaces using Tiles with JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed several Java Script functions for popup windows and screen-printing options.  • Strong experience in Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle Forms/Reports, XML, T-SQL.  • Developed and tested user-friendly navigators by utilizing JavaScript and VB.NET.  • Designed and developed Databases in SQL Server 2005 which includes the development of functions, stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL.  • Developed customized Oracle ERP forms of BOM and item registration along with several forms of production activity report using developer 2000 and Oracle PL/SQL.  • Wrote SQL queries and Stored Procedures for accessing data from SQL Server 2005.  • Used SSIS Packages for extracting, transforming and loading data into data warehouse.  • Used LINQ for Querying set of data.  • Worked with HTML, CSS, AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS and jQuery to improve look and feel of the ASP.NET4.5 web page.  • Good knowledge of key Oracle performance related features such as execution plan, hints and indexes.  • Used advanced bulk techniques FORALL and BULK COLLECT to improve performance.  • Extensively used the advanced features of PL/SQL like Oracle supplied packages, dynamic SQL, composite data types, Nested tables and Array in complex backend packages.  • Developed Oracle Forms/Reports with knowledge in master-detail blocks, forms triggers, system variables, multiple form applications, menus, alerts and LOV's.  • Designed templates, representing format, positioning, text style and size of report data, using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  • Used HTML5, XAML, XML, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript, JSON to develop and implement a user-friendly UI design and for functionality, using MVC5 C# programming presentation and provided web security for the application (providing authentication and authorization) using data annotation.  • Involved in creating the unit tests for the application in C#.NET.  • Proficiency on using various Oracle utility tools SQL Plus, TOAD, PL/SQL, Developer, SQL Navigator, SQL*Loader.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation System) as version control manager.  • Created test cases and performed N-Unit testing to rectify errors.  • Involved in Documentation of developed Components and modules.  • Involved in fixing the Bugs as per the requirements.  Environment: ASP.NET 3.5, C#.NET, WinForms, VB.NET, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ExtJS, WCF Services, Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2005, Crystal Reports, JSON, T-SQL, IIS 7.0, HL7, IHE Standards, TFS, SSIS. Sr .Net Developer First Missouri State Bank - Poplar Bluff, MO September 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed applications in VB.Net, C# .Net, SQL Server.  • Created and optimized views for user interactions using objects of HTML Helper class, Custom Helpers and JavaScript/jQuery.  • Designed and Developed Web Services using WCF to synchronize data from Remote application database to Online Database using C#.Net, ASP.Net and Visual Studio.Net.  • Developed the web application using C#.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, and SQL Server.  • Configured the Web Config file for Session Management and trace.  • Coding the presentation layer using WPF.  • User Interface modules is developed using ASP.Net, ADO.Net, VB.Net and JavaScript.  • Involved in creating database using SQL Server and have also created stored procedures.  • Improved the performance of web pages by using AJAX and Telerik.  • Used Session State, View State, Cookies and Query Strings to persist and transfer data between pages.  • Developed Security control, using WPF and MVVM Pattern and C#.  • Implemented Session state and Cookies for web development and security.  • Used TFS for integration, code security, and version and source control.  • Performed NUnit testing and functional testing and fixed the issues during testing process.  • Consumed web services to enable communication between UI and different databases.  Environment: C#, ASP.Net, VB.Net, ADO.Net, Visual Studio, MVC, Silverlight, WCF, WPF, SSRS, SQL Server, CSS, AJAX, HTML, jQuery, Java Script, Web Services, LINQ, LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML, IIS and NUnit testing. Net Developer L&T INFOTECH October 2010 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Played an active role in all stages-requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing, debugging, implementing and deployment of the application.  • Enabled Client-side Data Validation in .NET using the validation controls like Regular Expression validator, Required Field validator.  • Involved in application enhancement in terms of Speed, improved security, Error logging, Exception handling, Code Reuse with Object oriented design.  • Used Master Pages and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to render a uniform look and feel for the application and used the Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) techniques and created classes (in C#.NET) for database access  • Performed requirements analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance and deployment of the web portal.  • Used front end web development tools like CSS, JavaScript, DHTML, and JQuery.  • Developed C# components to implement the business logic, consumed instances of these using ASP.NET.  • Used ADO.NET extensively for database manipulations and connections.  • Configured security features for the application using form-based authentication and role-based authorization using C# and ASP.NET.  • Creating applications using VB.NET and enhancing projects for .NET application  • Created User Controls for better reusability of codes in the application.  • Used Grid View and Form View with extensive data binding to display page and sort multiple records.  • Extensively used ASP.NET, C#.NET Validation Controls and JavaScript for client-side validations in the Web Pages.  • Used LINQ to query against strongly typed collections of object and various data source, XML documents, Web services, ADO.NET Objects and Entity Framework 4.0.  • Used Session State, View State, Cookies and Query Strings to persist and transfer data between pages.  • Developed a module for XML input/output processing, third party input processing (Web Services, C#)  • Used Silverlight for the rich internet applications.  • Created and optimized views for user interactions using objects of HTML Helper class, Custom Helpers and JavaScript/JQuery  • Used Master pages, User controls, Custom controls to suit user's needs.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for Version Control and generated reports using the SQL Server Reporting services (SSRS)  • Worked with end users for requirements gathering. Trained staff on application usage.  Environment: ASP.NET 4.0, C#, ADO.NET, Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2008, Microsoft Visio, SSRS, Web Services, WCF, XAML, TFS 2010, IIS 7.0, Java Script, JQuery, XML, AJAX, LINQ, HTML, CSS. Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (8 years), ADO (8 years), ADO.NET (8 years), AJAX (8 years), ASP (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  .NET Technologies & Languages Visual, C#.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, MVC, VB .NET, Web Services, .NET Framework 3.5/4.0, LINQ, WPF, WCF, MVC (3.0, 4.0)  Web & Scripting Technologies AJAX, Web Services, HTML/ DHTML, HTML 5, XHTML, XML, XSLT, XAML, JavaScript, VB Script, CSS, Angular 4, Kendo UI.  Database SQL Server 2008, 2012, MySQL, T-SQL, Oracle.  Tools  Visual Studio, Ajax Control Tool Kit, SQL Server Reporting Services, Data Studio, SQL Server Management studio, Advanced CSS, Office 365    Software / IDE Visual Studio.NET 2008/2013/2015/2017.  Methodologies SDLC, Agile Waterfall, Object Model  Operating Systems Windows 8, 9, MS-DOS, UNIX