Apps System Engineer (Java Developer) Apps System Engineer (Java <span class="hl">Developer</span>) Senior Java Developer Dallas, TX • Full-stack developer with over 5 years of experience with all stages of the development cycle, for projects in AGILE and SDLC models.  ? Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and familiarity of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Extensive experience in designing and developing Enterprise Applications for J2EE platform using Core Java, Servlets, JDBC, JSP, JSTL, JAXB, Struts, EJB, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring DATA, Spring JDBC, Groovy-Grails, Hibernate, XML, Web services, JMS, Eclipse, RAD, Ant, Maven.  • Expertise in implementing Web services and JMS for the synchronous and asynchronous communications between two applications running in different servers.  • Proficient in creating Web Services using Spring Boot.  • Expertise in application development using Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, spring, Hibernate, JSF, EJB2.0/3.0, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL.  • Knowledge in implementing a Microservices with Spring Boot based services.  • Expertise in Web Services architecture in SOAP and WSDL using JAX-RPC.  • Experience in developing Web based GUI's using JSP, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, Node JS, AngularJS, React JS, JQuery, EXTJS and Ajax.  • Experience in Bootstrap (Responsive Web Design), Backbone, and AngularJS frameworks.  • Strong working experience Object Relational mapping (ORM) tools like Hibernate (Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Hibernate Caching, Transactions).  • Expertise in design patterns including Front Controller, Data Access Object, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, MVC, Data Transfer Object and Singleton.  • Proficient in OOAD Technologies developing Use Cases, Activity diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class diagrams using case tools like Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose.  • Experienced in the functional usage and deployment of applications in JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL and PL/SQL programming.  • Involved in building and deploying Apache ANT/ MAVEN scripts for deployment and customizing WAR/ JAR file management for web applications.  • Well experienced in using JUnit for performing unit-testing framework.  • Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development (TDD), Incremental Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Apps System Engineer (Java Developer) Wells Fargo, Fremont St February 2017 to March 2018 Description: The interdiction module (Application) will handle UI presentation of challenge screens in modal windows ("light boxes"). This approach of displaying the challenge screens while the client app screens are also being displayed will enable all future interdiction projects to have a common UI experience across all device types (desktop browser, mobile tablet or mobile phone). This implementation of Interdiction requires the client application to make configuration and code changes in addition to installing the interdiction components. Interdiction consists of 2 primary processes: Authorization and Authentication Challenge.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design and Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the application.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Modified the existing workflows to reduce execution time and improved the throughput.  • Thorough knowledge of Motive Workflow builder enabling debugging and analyzing workflow executions  • Analyzed and resolved themes and themeskin issues during the migration of UCP project.  • Played the role of configuration controller to validate and maintain the project as per the company and Tl9k standards.  • Designed use cases for the Application as per the business requirements.  • Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology.  • Used ng2-pdf-viewer from Angular2 npm package to preview the pdf files  • Created many components with Angular2 for each single page application.  • Used Angular2 camelCase syntax for built in directives.  • Used router module from Angular2.0.  • Used Angular2 npm packages like ng2-datepicker, ng2-pdf-viewer, ng2-auto-complete etc., to meet the requirements of the project.  • Developed and delivered SOAP based Web Services and used Apache-CXF and SOAP UI to test the services  • Developed Web Applications with rich UI using CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery plugins and Struts 2 framework.  • Implemented Single Page Design and customized directive and filter criteria by using Angular.JS.  • Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and MicroServices in Java J2EEE using Spring Boot.  • Implementation of authentication for Restful web services using Spring Boot Security Starter.  • Developing the application for incident creation and retrieving the events using restful web services with spring Boot.  • Worked extensively on spring boot for building web service.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections.  • Designed the system based on Spring MVC Model architecture. Developed a business logic layer using Spring Dependency Injection and client side Java-beans for DAO Design Patterns.  • Used Maven for compilation and building JAR, WAR.  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  • Used STS for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the application.  • Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  • Involved in the day to day sprint development activities and delivered per sprint timeline.  • Written unit test cases using JUnit and Integration test cases and integrated with Jenkin jobs.  • Coordinated with the onsite and offshore developer's w.r.t ongoing issues and follow up.  • Utilized Node.js to create a fast and efficient chat server.  • Responsible for the overall layout design that meet cross-device compatibility using Bootstrap, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle10g database.  • Proficient in using GIT for Version Control.  • Actively involved in code reviews and also in bug fixing. JAVA/J2EE Developer Enterprise Holdings Inc - Saint Charles, MO October 2015 to January 2017 Description: Risk Management is responsible for overseeing and controlling risks related to all aspects of the business. The application suite includes operational products used to process and manage claims, as well as reporting solutions for business analysis and monitoring. The team serves an ever growing need to leverage technological solutions for more efficient and cost effective processes that allow business leaders to make decisions in a dynamic environment.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed a Restful style Web Services layer to interface with a DB2 system.  • Learning new technologies like Splunk, Dynatrace, White Hat.  • Responsible for getting the business requirements from the clients and breaking them into user stories and further down to tasks.  • Implemented the spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects.  • Implemented persistence layer using JPA and writing SQL queries based on JPA criteria API.  • Responsible for designing and developing proof of concept for new carrier and lane search portlets using Spring MVC and hibernate.  • Worked with Struts MVC for the POL client and the presentation layer of the application using JSP pages  • Used HTML, CSS, Angular Js, JavaScript and JQuery for designing the GUI pages.  • Involved in CICD process using GIT, Jenkins job creation, Maven to build the application.  • Used Maven to build, test and deploying purposes.  • Used Bitbucket, GitHub, SourceTree and Eclipse for Source Control and Version Management  • Configured Hibernate objects as Spring Beans in the Spring Configuration File.  • Used XSLT for transforming the XML documents in to HTML documents.  • Implemented the application using Spring Framework, which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Used JSP, Servlets, and HTML5 to create web interfaces. Developed Java Beans and used custom tag libraries for embedding dynamic into JSP pages.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework in the application. Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC)  • Involved in pre-testing the Web-Service calls with Soap UI using end-points.  • Worked on Data Management classes, using Hibernate to access the Oracle Database  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using Oracle database.  • Worked on J2EE frameworks like spring and Struts for developing industry standard web applications.  • Developed a multithreaded Thread-pool web server implementing queuing, thread scheduling and thread synchronization techniques for deadlock prevention.  • Experience working with Web Containers (Weblogic, JBoss, Tomcat).  • Development of web services using SOAP & REST.  • Responsible for creating the tables in database using SQL and mapping between them.  • Responsible for migrating from ant to maven, clear case to bit bucket for improving security.  • Exposed the SOAP services for all the transactions. Provided Daily Status Report in Scrum calls.  • Developed Junit Test cases and Mock tests for the code coverage.    Environment: java, Core Java, - AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery, Struts MVC, Soap UI testing, Spring MVC, Spring dependency injection ,Hibernate , Maven Scripts, Bitbucket/GitHub, Jenkins, Clear case, Eclipse IDE,JIRA ,Confluence, oracle, Pl/Sql, Junit test cases, Enterprise GIT, Source Tree, Jira, UDeploy, SOAP UI. Software Engineer GDT - Houston, TX August 2014 to September 2015 Description: The Direct Project develops specifications for a secure, scalable, standards-based way to establish universal health addressing and transport for participants (including providers, laboratories, hospitals, pharmacies and patients) to send encrypted health information directly to known, trusted recipients over the Internet.  The Nationwide Health Information Network is a set of standards, services and policies that enable secure health information exchange over the Internet. Several Federal agencies and healthcare organizations are already using Nationwide Health Information Network standards to exchange information amongst themselves and their partners.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design phase and data modeling, interacted with other team members to understand the requirements for the project.  • Core Java coding and development using Multithreading and Design Patterns.  • Core Java development and Support of Java/J2EE applications with emphasis on OOP-based web forms, business logic, database access components.  • Analysis and development of application based on J2EE using Spring and Hibernate.  • Involved in sprint meetings with Architect and off-shore.  • Worked on tools like Rally for bug tracking.  • Designed and developed GUI screens for user interfaces using JSP, AngularJS, JavaScript, XSLT, AJAX, XML, HTML, CSS and JSON.  • Extensive usage of RESTful webservices throughout modules to communicate with all external system.  • Developed REST web services utilizing business logic for CRUD functionality.  • Developed Rest architecture based webservices to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Used Eclipse IDE for development, RALLY for defect tracking.  • Used SVN for version control of source code.  • Used maven to build the project into WAR and EAR files and SVN Version Controlling  • Developed web interface for Users Modules using JSP, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, and Action Servlets with Struts Framework, spring framework.  • Used XSLT for conversion of XML documents into HTML documents.  • Created JUnit test suite to automate the testing of the business logic.  • Hibernate was used for object relational mapping with Oracle database.  • Integrated spring and Hibernate ORM framework for persistence.  • Working knowledge of Java/Groovy and JavaScript programming language.  • Familiarity with relational databases (Oracle/PostgreSQL), web services, Grails, Mule, Groovy, Gradle, Hibernate, and the Spring Framework is ideal.  • Expertise in J2EE technologies like AJAX, JSP, Hibernate, JDBC, Spring MVC, AOP, JNDI.  • Experience in design and development of Model View Controller using Servlet, Struts 1.1 and Spring MVC.  • Hibernate Dao Support with Hibernate Template to access the data.  • Developed Multithreading concepts to read the bulk files contents faster by using join, is Alive, Block Multi-Threading concepts.  • Implemented logger for debugging and testing purposes using Log4j.  • Estimations and review activities at various levels e.g. Review of code, test cases etc  • Used Eclipse as an IDE for all development and debugging purposes.  • Responsible for deploying Components to Development environment, System Test Environment (SIT), and User Acceptance Test (UAT) environment.  • Participated in unit testing, module testing and integration testing.  • Developed Proof of Concepts and provided work/time estimates for design and development efforts.    Environment: Core Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSP, Hibernate, JDBC, Spring MVC, AOP, JNDI, Rest & soap Web services, ant scripts, Eclipse IDE, Rally, hibernate, oracle ,SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (3 years), database (3 years), GIT (2 years), HTML (2 years), J2EE (2 years), Java (3 years), JavaScript (3 years), JSP (2 years), JUnit (3 years), Maven (2 years), Model View Controller (3 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (3 years), MVC (3 years), Oracle (2 years), REST (3 years), Servlets (2 years), Struts (3 years), testing (2 years), Web Services (3 years), XML (2 years)