IAM Developer IAM <span class="hl">Developer</span> IAM Developer - Cuna Mutual Boston, MA ? Over 9+ years of IT experience SailPoint, and IAM (Identity and Access Management).  ? Extensive experience in financial and access management projects.  ? Worked with Active Directory, LDAP/UNIX groups, Networks, Human Resource systems for Identity and Access Management.  ? Managed projects for design, configuration and implementation of SailPoint IIQ, including coordinating with technical services leadership, and end user customers.  ? Understanding of directories (AD/LDAP) and group structures, policies etc , SAML 2.0, Frame set up for enterprise level Role mining, Role Based Access Control (RBAC), Multi Factor Authentication (MFA), Single Sign on (SSO), Entitlement Management and Identity Management.  ? Hands on experience in implementation and providing Single Sign on across enterprise applications using Ping Federate, Active Directory Federation Service, CA Federation, CA SiteMinder with Policy stores as Active Directory, Sun One User directory and other components.  ? Worked on Enterprise Users Single Sign On through browser and through services with third party application hosted in enterprise or cloud using Ping Federate, Ping One.  ? Upgraded Ping Federate from Version 7.0 to 8.0 both for Console and Engine server.  ? Worked on Ping Federate Clustering with Engine and console servers being part of cluster by maintaining multiple clusters for the high availability.  ? Installed and Configured Ping Federate on both Linux and Windows.  ? Experience in Ping Federation using SAML and integrated with SiteMinderauthentication.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in implementing user provisioning credential management, workflows, forms, application integration, connectors, reports and roles.  ? Provided use cases and business processes for support groups on role, entitlement, provisioning and de-provisioning.  ? Established standards, designs and implementation of appropriate identity and access management processes and controls which help improve operations and lower risk.  ? Served as liaison between platform, technical and business teams for end to end business process.  ? Provisioning and access governance experience with and understanding of security on systems such as AD, LDAP/Unix, Oracle and manual provisioned applications.  ? Direct provisioning using direct connectors for integration of target applications  Developed Custom java classes in IIQ.  ? Performed Integration with multiple applications such as AD, Exchange, RDBMS, Flat File & LDAP. Upgraded SailPoint from 5.5 to 6.X and 6.4 to 7.1 P2.  ? Designed and developed the Remedy notification LCM workflow for manager approved user account provisioning requests using SailPoint IdentityIQ 7.1, Java BeanShell and velocity for the Rules and Email templates  ? Strong experience in RDBMS technologies like SQL, Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions. Experience working with project management methodologies- agile development methodology.  ? Proficiency in programming with different Java IDE's like Eclipse.  ? Good working experience with deploying applications in Unix/Linux and using tools like Putty and WinSCP.  ? Highly experienced working with logging frameworks like log4j.  ? Experience in source code control tools like GITHUB, Serena.  ? Strong understanding of Object Oriented technology and standard java development frameworks.  ? Have excellent technical leadership, analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills, with ability to interact with individuals at all levels and can work as a part of a team as well as independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IAM Developer Cuna Mutual - Madison, WI July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Configured SAML single sign-on (SSO) instance for internal and external users, wherein external users and internal users performing various administrative tasks that included managing external and federated users Develop custom SailPoint Rules and Workflows as per the business needs.  ? Designed and implemented Access Certification, Automated Provisioning and Governance aspects of IIQ  ? Rewriting the workflows to encompass the new way of provisioning. Restructured the entire product to reflect direct provisioning across a large number of applications. In the process of upgrading the IdentityIQ product from 6.1 to 6.3.  ? Implementation of different direct/custom connectors to connect Mainframe (RACF), Teradata, Unix and Oracle..etc.  ? Installed and configured RACF SailPoint connector to integrate with Mainframe systems.  ? Designed an ETL package using Microsoft SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) to load over 1TB data set.  ? Wrote policy rules to ensure SOD, and written new workflows to reflect business needs.  ? Design and developed a shell script to find on a server all the users who has sudo access, then generate a report that can be run from the cron (UNIX system scheduler).  ? Built a customized task to generate manager certificates in bulk to improve the Technical and Functional Acceptance Testing (TAT/FAT) process efficiency.  ? Implemented and Customized the SailPoint product to configure products (such as Bladelogic, TAM, and OIM), systems administration, operational support and problem resolution.  ? Preparing Audit reports for monitoring the SOD conflicts using Control Software International (CSI) Tool.  ? Worked on ping federate both inbound and outbound calls using saml2.0.  ? Worked on Browser SSO using SAML and webservice SSO using WS-Security.  ? Worked on OAUTH to allow access to Protected API's for OAuth Clients by getting Access Token from Authorization Server using various Grant Types.  ? Worked on Ping Access POC to Authenticate the users using Ping Federation Session.  ? Enabling services and applications with ADFS and SAML using CA API Gateway.  ? Design, Implement and troubleshoot Layer 7 application API Gateways for Company wide application services.  ? Worked on installing IAM infrastructure and applications and databases from ground up.  ? Installation /Configuration of CA Identity Manager platform, provisioning servers and connectors.  ? Compared and modified XML objects during the upgrade of IAM.  ? Involved in the development and customization of user provisioning solution using IAM.  ? Execute (SailPoint IIQ) test cases through multiple launches and to include development and test environments.  ? Implemented Identity-aware applications using Windows Identity foundation (WIF).  ? Assist in updating (SailPoint IIQ) workgroups.  ? Monitor SailPoint IIQ product functionalities.  ? IAM Process documentation.  ? Provide project management support across multiple security work streams  ? Provisioning and access governance experience with and understanding of security on systems such as AD, LDAP/Unix, Oracle, Sybase and manual provisioned applications.  Environment: SailPoint IIQ 6.0,6.1,6.1p2, J2EE, JUnit, HTML, CSS , JavaScript,SiteMinder R6 SP6, R12 SP3, R12.5sp1, iPlanet Web Server 6.0, MS SQL 2005/2008, Iplanet Directory Server 5.2, JSF, Hibernate, JQuery, MySQL, SQL Server SSIS, SVN, HTML, Web Sphere Application server 6.0, Java 7, Bean shell script, Tomcat 7, BEA Weblogic, WSAD, RAD, Apache, Ant, AJAX, Struts, Log4J, Rapid SQL, XML, Informatica. Sr IAM Developer AIG - Houston, TX June 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Support in Analysis of the business requirements and present design review to estimate the timeline required to complete the project  ? Upgrading from 6.4 to 7.2 and involved in installation of SailPoint IIQ in various environments like UNIX and Windows.  ? Work closely with SailPoint architect and engineers for design and solution architecture Implementation of Self Service feature of SailPoint IIQ.  ? Implementation of Password features (PTA, forgot password, Change Password) of SailPoint IIQ.  ? Familiar with Access Governance and Compliance, with knowledge of engineering SODS.  ? On boarded various applications like delimited file, AD, JDBC etc.  ? Implemented provisioning, de-provisioning and other related functionalities for new application  ? Developed Build Map rules, Pre-Iterate rules and Customization rules.  ? Configuration and development of SailPoint Life Cycle Events (LCM).  ? Build and Configure SailPoint in-built tasks like aggregation, ID refresh, schedule tasks, correlation, etc.  ? Configured SSO in SailPoint IAM services.  ? Worked on Single sign on (SSO), SailPoint IdentityIQ custom and out of box workflows in SailPoint.  ? Worked on implementation of IAM solutions like CA Single Sign-On, Identity Federation using Ping Federate.  ? Successfully supported to migrate/Build all the infrastructure to a new environment.  ? Successfully upgraded Ping Federate Services from 8 to 9 and PingAccess 4.x to 5.x.  ? Maintained both Test and Production servers for Ping Federate along with the cluster management and timely Replications to deploy changes to servers.  ? Configuring the IDP and SP connections in Pingfederate according to the client's requirements.  ? Worked as administrator to protect web applications using Ping Federate.  ? Experienced in implementing SSO between PingFederate and SiteMinder applications using WAM adapter in PingFederate for Seamless user experience with SiteMinder protected applications.  ? Worked on digital certificates to create, renew and deploy the certs for various connections within console.  ? Creating the SSL Certificates in Pingfederate and configuring the certificates in the connections  ? Configured Ping Gateway to Authenticate the users and API's through PingAccess and Ping federate  ? Documented the IT security and identity management environment to include processes.  ? Involved in creating custom reports, certifications to cater various data feeds.  ? Developed Delegation rules, customized certifications to send email notifications as per client needs.  ? Development of custom workflows with multi-level approval and time-based escalation for Approval process, self-service, profile update and changing the profile of User and Group modifications.  ? Involved in design and implementation of IdentityIQ solution in configuring Active Directory, and Shared Folders.  ? Design complex exclusion rules, correlation and data loading tasks in Identity IQ.  ? Involved in all phases of testing from creating test cases to sending the reports for validation approvals.  ? Using Form Models Concept creating the Identity IQ objects like Quick links, Forms, Rules, and Custom Objects to design the workflows.  ? Design correlation and data loading tasks in IdentityIQ.  ? Designed and deployed Identity & Access Management solution to improve user experience, meet compliance, and reduce costs.  Environment: Java, Bean Shell, JavaScript, SailPoint 6.x,7.0,7.0p2, Ping Federate 7.0,7.1,8.3, Web Agents, Policy Servers, SAML 2.0, OAuth2.0, Clear Case, Clear Quest, MS Access, Sybase, Visio, Excel and SQL (TOAD), Active Directory, LDAP, Oracle10g, MySQL, XML, Flat Files, Web services. Software Engineer AutoDesk - San Francisco, CA May 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Application development by using connector configurations like delimited, JDBC and Active Directory etc.  ? Responsible for delivery of the pilot project. An application using the Epic connector, having the Active Directory as the authoritative source and using SailPoint IdentityIQ 5.2, Java BeanShell and velocity for the Rules and Email templates.  ? Worked on installing, configuring and upgrading/migrating SailPoint IIQ IAM solution components.  ? Proficient in creating and modifying workflows for implementing business flows.  ? Extensive knowledge and skills in maintaining an access management/SSO system in a large, complex organization  ? Production support experience in incident management, problem management and change management for SailPoint IIQ Identity Manager and Access Manager related issues.  ? Designed, coded and debugged applications in various software languages (Java, SailPoint, XML).  ? Excellent knowledge of IDM user provisioning, de provisioning, User recertification, etc.  ? Worked in operations, reporting, analytics and end-user support on real-time issues and have an extensive experience with the IIQ tool.  ? Worked on various upgrades and bug-fixes in the tool.  ? Customization of the Sailpoint IIQ product to implement enterprise security and access control.  ? Worked on building propelled services to be incorporated on the IIQ Dashboard to give custom elements to the end-users.  ? Developed code for rules, debugging and testing applications.  Environment: Sailpoint Identity IQ 5.2,Java/J2EE, Eclipse, Oracle 12c, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX, Linux and Windows XP, shell scripting, Application Packaging Engineer McGuireWoods LLP - Richmond, VA April 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developing Packages with various tools like Software Installer, Application Launcher, and Admin Studio, WISE Package Studio and ORCA.  ? Responding appropriately to emergency technical support situations and produce quick and effective solutions to Packaging problems.  ? Involved in Process Standardization and documentation  ? Performing the Unit testing of that particular project.  ? Guiding team members w.r.t Client standards and process  ? Sequencing of applications using Microsoft SoftGrid  ? Publishing the sequenced virtual applications using SCCM  ? Reporting Bugs related to SoftGrid build to Microsoft product team  ? Creating status reports for the Team on daily basis, weekly basis and monthly basis.  ? Collecting metrics during the entire delivery process.  ? Conducting weekly review meetings with the customer  ? Involved in designing standards to the clients  ? Executing projects with Vendor Partners  ? Work Assignment to Core Team  ? Validating Client images/builds for testing processed Apps  ? Coordinating with Onsite team and client for smooth operation of project.  ? Resolving Clarifications raised by Core teams.  ? Fixing UAT bugs and creating RCA documents  ? Preparation of Daily Reports  Environment: Windows XP, Windows 7, Install Shield, ORCA, VB Script, Hibernate, JQuery, MySQL, SVN, HTML, Web Sphere Application server 6.0, Java 7, Bean shell script, Tomcat 7 Software Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC March 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities  ? Worked extensively using WebSphere Studio Application Developer  ? Developed XML's as part of Web Enrollment application. These XML's were used as data feed for another web application.  ? Designing and coding the UI Framework using Struts (JSP/Servlet) and business logic  ? Application on boarding and Implementation of applications and identities. Implementation Password management of SailPoint IIQ.  ? Created Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers.  ? Extensively used design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory etc.  ? Involved in Analyzing, Designing and Implementing all of the Business User Requirements  ? Developed Maven build scripts and involved in deploying the application on Eclipse IDE.  ? Developed Oracle SQL and PL/SQL procedures, queries, functions and packages for various database operations  ? Developing Build scripts using ANT for packaging and deploying the application  ? The business logic is developed using J2EE framework and deployed components on Application server where Eclipse was used for component building.  ? Responsible for developing and deploying web components on WebSphere Application Server  ? Implemented logging using log4j and developed robust exception handling and error reporting mechanism.  ? Implemented Web Services using SOAP protocol, UDDI, WSDL and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) Concept.  ? Involved in the development of design and security documentation for SailPoint IIQ components.  ? Extensively involved in Unit testing and coordinated with the testing team and fixing Bugs at various stages of the application development.  ? Worked on bug fixing and enhancements of change request. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License