Sr .Net Developer/Designer Sr .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer Sr .Net Developer/Designer Minneapolis, MN • 9 years of experience in design, development and implementation of Web Applications using .NET Technologies.  • Proficient in Object-Oriented Concepts and experience in Software Development Life Cycle.  • Strong experience in design and development of web-based applications using ASP.NET 4.5/4.0/3.5/2.0 using C#/VB.NET, .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0, ADO.NET, Web Services, WCF services and User Controls.  • Experience with all phases of SDLC in the Waterfall model and Agile (SCRUM) methodologies.  • Extensive expertise in Client Server, Web-based, Multi -Tier applications using on the .Net technologies ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, Web services, WPF, VB, ASP, IIS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, HTML, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, ADO.NET, CSS, HTTP, Ajax, .Net Compact Framework, MS Visual studio 2005/2010/2012/2013.  • Worked extensively on Server side HTML Controls, Web User Controls using both C# and VB.NET.  • Experience in creating User Controls, Web Forms and client side validations using JavaScript, JQuery Validate and Angular.JS.  • Strong experience in design and development of web-based applications using ASP.NET, ASP.Net MVC, Silverlight, C#, ADO.NET, Web Services and User Controls.  • Proficient in Web Services, SOAP, OOPS, XML, XML Schema, CSS, DOM, HTML, AJAX, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Expertise in Database Design and Database Programming (Stored procedures, Triggers, Packages, Cursors, T-SQL, PL/SQL,No-SQL) using SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, DB2 and Oracle 11g/12c.  • Experience in working with third party controls like Infragistics, Telerik and Component Art controls with web applications and Silverlight applications.  • Experience in working on Docker for deploying the applications.  • Strong Experience in Relational database like DB2, Oracle 9i/10g/11g (SQL & PL/SQL).  • Experience in developing rich, uniformed User Interface using CSS, Master pages, Themes, Silverlight, AJAX Controls, Web parts and JQUERY.  • Solid experience in creating WCF, WPF Services.  • Solid experience in VBScript, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, XSL, XSLT, HTML.  • Experience with ASP and worked extensively in the migration of an application from ASP to ASP.NET.  • Experience in developing RESTful services using Web API.  • Developed LINQ, Lambda expressions and ADO.NET Data Services.  • Worked with ASP.NET AJAX to create rich UI web applications and to improve performance.  • Extensively developed applications in Win Forms, Web Forms, MVC, MVVM and Single Page Application Architectural patterns.  • Hand on experience on Design Patterns and Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Experience in implementing the design Patterns like MVVM (Model View View-Model), MVC and MVP architecture.  • Familiar with development and configuration of Layer 7 (Enterprise Service Bus) policies.  • Good experience in analysis and design in the RDBMS environment and experience in development of Stored Procedures and Triggers in SQL Server 2005/2008/2012. Work Experience Sr .Net Developer/Designer Wells Fargo - Minneapolis, MN April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement Analysis, gathering, Low Level Design, Coding and Integration.  • Worked on multiple projects as part of the IT backbone team, Projects were mainly based on Angular 4, Angular.JS, C# .NET MVC based full stack applications.  • 15 members based on AGILE Methodology Sprints.  • Responsible for Monitoring 24/7 Production Support and Performed upgrades from Oracle 11g to 12c and applied patches.  • Implemented OAuth authentication using Azure Active Directory.  • Assisted automated deployment efforts through Jenkins jobs and gained experience with groovy scripting.  • Enhancements to the Angular.JS based front end portal application to provide loan and refinancing options to the customer and partners. Worked on the enhancements, fixes and front end validations to support the existing PHP based backend validation for the partner portal.  • Executed Exception handling and Logging for the download service. Logs were saved on windows service side, AWS logs and Database as well.  • Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS and Bootstrap with MySQL database.  • Virtualized the servers using the Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs, and also worked on configuration automation using Docker containers.  • Part of the development team of the Angular 5 based pricing calculator portal to get the pricing quotes for the customer/partner.  • Add/extend features on existing multilayered. NET applications ( Winforms and ASP. Net).  • Build Models, View Model to pass data between views and entity framework; build repository layer to convert business logic from Share Point project to our new .Net Core Solution.  • Work on GEC GIT /TFS for code version control the application and code reviews.  • Provided technical expertise to implement microservices architecture.  • Transition of the leave of absence application to Workday.  • Enhancements/fixes for the C# .NET MVC based full stack applications for the cheque request application and also its integration with workday.  • Used SQL Navigator and implemented store procedures, triggers and functions on the Oracle11g database.  • UI layer Implementation for dashboard, quick edit, approval workflow, alerts, DAL layer integration. Defect and Task management on TFS. Testing and defect resolution.  • Support, Enhancements on the other backbone applications mainly in C#.NET MVC based applications supporting Quicken Loans Accounting, HR, Facilities business needs based on Agile methodology  • Responsible for designing and developing the Application using ASP.Net MVC 5, Razor Syntaxes, Razor view engine.  • Created reusable templates using Angular directives and worked with NPM package manager tools ( NodeJS).  • Responsible for making AJAX Calls for the UI Interactions to the Controller Actions using JQuery and getting the Data back as JSON and parsing it onto the UI.  • Installed and configured SharePoint Portal Server (SPS) with Windows Server IIS and SQL Server with Information Systems Management.  • Use Kubernetes to deployed Docker containers into Pod Clusters on multiple Nodes in QA, Test and Production Environments.  • Manage and develop different aspects of Jenkins which include act as an administrator as well as writing scripts in order to make the configuration management system more effective.  • Applications are built on a platform using MVC, Razor, AngularJS, and Web API in C#, using Dependency Injection, Entity Framework and SQL Server.  • Consumed API from different payment systems by implementing third party authentication system ( Oauth) for token-based Authentication and Authorization.  • Maintained a MySQL database and facilitated business reporting by optimizing queries.  • Used Queuing services of AWS to handle large dataset for the integration pieces.  • JQuery validation MVC and unobtrusive validation were used to validate form fields.  • Used Angular.JS framework for building web applications with the associates to understand the requirements of the user interface layout of the web application.  • Used Generics, Lambda Expressions, Extension Methods, LINQ to SQL, LINQ to Objects.  • Migrated SQL data to the SharePoint lists and synchronized them for the daily updates.  • Developed Bootstrap responsive web application pages using Angular.JS services, controllers and directives for front end UI and consumed RESTful web service API.  • Created Stored Procedures, Functions, Views and Triggers in MS-SQL database using T-SQL for regulate and maintain complex data.  • Designed and Developed WinForms using C#.  • Developed an ASP. NET Core 2.0 application in Visual Studio 2017 using the test-driven  development (TDD) approach.  • Developed reports using Oracle 11g and Crystal Reports 11.0.  • Extended a custom domain driven microservices architecture built on top of ASP. Net Web API.  • Proficiency in deploying Web building technologies like JQuery, Java script, ECMA script(ES6), Type Script, JSON and Node JS.  • Designed, modeled and architected multi-threaded, enterprise n-tier software agent using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), C# web service hosted in a Windows service.  • Involved in creating various reports using SSRS.  • Worked on Microsoft Team Foundation Server for version control, individual task status and Database.  • Administered and supported Oracle 10g/11g databases by creating databases, objects, backup and recovery and optimize database performance.  • Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud Watch.  • Utilized AngularJS Node. js and Express framework to create dynamic data driven web pages.  Environment C#, .NET, MVC, Angular, Angular JS, ASP.NET, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, Bootstrap 3, EntityFramework., MS Visual Studio, Windows OS, Jasmine Unit tests, Docker container. Sr. Software Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX February 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities  • Involved in Requirement Gathering, Design, Development and Testing of the application.  • Used MVC Design Pattern to develop classes to having clear separation of responsibilities of all the supported client actions.  • Built MySQL database queries which provide data for weekly and monthly reports.  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from requirements gathering and performed Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using UML.  • Developed usingAgile Scrum Methodology and TDD & Paired Programming Methods  • Developed the application using C#, ASP.NET MVC, Angular.JS and Web API.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery using extensible automation server.  • Used JIRA as management tool and GIT as a version control.  • Responsible for developing the Data Access Layer (Model) using ADO.NET.  • Worked on MVVM design pattern for this application.  • Created Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers using PL/SQL in Oracle 11g to insert, update, and delete data inside tables.  • Used Angular 2 and typescript as front end and backend with Asp. net core to develop Restful API for new application.  • Designed User Interface using ASP. NET Standard Controls, WPF, WinForms and Ajax Controls.  • Integrated Docker and Docker Compose into the CI process to perform multiple concurrent builds in isolation.  • Designing the User Interface using the Silverlight, XAML Code and Expression Blend.  • Responsible for designing and developing the UI using HTML5, CSS3, Angular.JS, JQuery, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Developed Microservices for each required business functional element and was implemented using Microservices as independent components.  • Used View Models, Partial Views of MVC with the HTML helper class.  • Used List, Toolbars, Menus and Context Menus for navigating between screens in Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF).  • Developed Rest Services using node JS and react JS and node modules to serve the web application with JSON data.  • Involved in writing java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Developed RESTful API for mobile and web-applications, using ASP.NET, Entity Framework, and SQL Server.  • Used GITHUB and TFS for version control.  • Designed and Created a Page using Angular JavaScript utilizing two-way binding to handle the synchronization between DOM and Model.  • Used NHibernate for mapping from .NET classes to database tables.  • Implemented JQuery Mobile Touch Optimized Framework for web pages.  • Creating unit test cases for the presenter and Model using NUnit.  • Troubleshoot and resolve problems with SQL DB administration, MySQL and storage engines.  • Involved in the development of SOAP based XML Web Services like Financial account.  • Used Entity framework combined with LINQ queries to do database operations.  • Maintaining the Source code using Team Foundation Server (TFS) in a multi developer environment.  • Used SSRS to create, manage and deploy reports.  Environment WCF, C#, Silver light, ADO.Net, VB .NET, WPF, AJAX, CSS, MVC, UML, Windows, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, SOAP, Visual Studio, SQL Server 2008, TFS, IIS, NUnit, GITHUB, Web Services. Sr .Net Developer McKesson Health - Rochester, MN November 2013 to January 2016 Responsibilities  • Involved in Requirement Gathering, Design, Development and Testing of the application.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from requirements gathering and performed Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using UML.  • Maintaining code base using TFS and later GitHub, as the client moved to Git.  • Designed and developed intranet web application using ASP.NET MVC framework.  • Created ASP.NET web pages that provide new features and enhanced user experience.  • Used Themes and Skins which made the designing uniform.  • Web application development for backend system using AngularJS and Node. js with cutting edge.  • Created HTML Helpers to reduce the amount of tedious typing of HTML tags.  • Used Generics extensively in C# and ASP.NET Menu Controls.  • Used OAuth security authorization protocol to give access to third party web sites.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in grails and JavaScript using frameworks like Backbone.JS.  • Established communication between different applications running on same/different platforms using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Created WinForms and WebForms for developing the applications using wincontrols, webserver controls and HTML controls.  • Used Twitter Bootstrap framework for developing customizable and fully responsive for various screen sizes.  • Maintained MySQL database and integrated that with other applications.  • Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development with MySQL database as the backend.  • Created REST service for authentication using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat server on Docker Container.  • Developed Web applications using Microsoft technologies Visual Studio 2012, ASP .NET 4.5, Oracle Server 11g.  • Developed windows application using C#.NET,WPF, Visual Studio 2010 and SQL Server 2008.  • Used LINQ to SQL, LINQ to Entities, LINQ to XML and LINQ to Objects for retrieving the data efficiently.  • Developed Microservices and integrated with AngularJS and NodeJS applications.  • Used ADO.NET for creation of front-end database clients and middle-tier business objects used by applications, tools, languages.  • Developed database objects such as tables, views, stored procedures, triggers and user defined functions for database operations in SQLSERVER 2008.  • Used Oracle 11g for writing Stored Procedures, Views and Triggers.  • Used SSRS to create, manage and deploy reports.  • Provided Production Support to troubleshoot and debug the issues.  Environment WCF, C#, ASP.NET 3.0, BackboneJS, HTML, CSS, XSD, UML, JSON, LINQ, Bootstrap, JQuery, Windows 2008, Visual Studio2008, SQL Server 2008, TFS, IIS, web services. .Net Developer Infinite Computer Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2010 to October 2013 Responsibilities  • Implemented the project using C#.NET (Win Forms) and back-end database as Microsoft SQL Server.  • Used Node. js (npm) as the package manager for development workflow dependent plugins.  • Understood and analyzed the client's requirements and involved in GUI designing of the application.  • Participated in various Client meetings with the team and the Project manager to discuss improvements/amendments in the development of the section.  • Worked on ASP.NET features like state Management, caching features, configuring optimizations and securing web application.  • Developed win forms using C# environments and ADO.NET.  • Involved in design, development and implementation of user interfaces in ASP.NET and validation using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used GIT for version control tool and Spring Tool Suite (STS) for IDE.  • Used custom Data Grid, Dataset and Data Reader to retrieve, display and manipulate data.  • Configured security features for the application using integrated windows authentication.  • Involved in design, development and implementation of user interfaces in ASP.NET and validation using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Involved in database operations using ADO.NET.  • Designed and developed web forms using user ASP.NET controls Server Controls.  • Designed and developed Custom controls to use with Web Forms.  • Extensive use of Web Services, SOAP, XML, XSL to expose the reports to facilitate information sharing.  • Designed and developed .NET components using VB.NET and XML to communicate with Web Services.  • Involved in database design, writing stored procedures using T-SQL.  • Implemented Optimized SQL Stored Procedures.    Environment:C#.NET, Microsoft .NET Framework 2.0, ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, XML,SOAP,SQL Server 2008, Windows NT, JQuery, Web Services, Reporting Services (SSRS). Education Bachelor's Skills .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C#, Html, Silverlight, Wcf, Reporting tools, Scripting, Vb.net, Xml, Ado, Ms access, Ado.net, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Ajax Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: C#, VB.Net, T-SQL, PL-SQL  .Net Technologies: ASP.NET 2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, ADO.NET, LINQ, C#.NET, WCF Services, WPF, Web Parts, Share Point, Win Forms, .Net Framework 1.1/2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, MVC 3.0/ MVC 3.5/ MVC 4.0/ MVC 4.5/MVC 5  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XAML, AJAX, Silverlight 4.0/3.0, DOM, JQuery  Databases: SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, MS Access, Oracle 10g/11g.  Servers: IIS 5.0/6.0/7.0/7.5  Scripting Languages: Java Script, UNIX Shell Scripting, batch file scripting, JQuery  Environments: Microsoft Visual Studio 2003/2005/2008/2010/2012/2013  Operating Systems: Windows NT/2000/XP/7/8/10/server 2008/2012, MS DOS  Reporting Tools: SSRS, Crystal Report, SSIS packages, Silver Light.  Version Controller: Microsoft Visual Source Safe 6.0, Team Foundation Server 2008/2010/2012