Full Stack Developer (Angular4&7/Web API) Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Angular4&amp;7/Web API) Full Stack Developer (Angular4&7/Web API) - ProSight Specialty Insurance Group Piscataway, NJ • Full Stack Developer with 5+ years of experience in both front-end and back-end software engineering with focus on .NET technologies in various domains including healthcare and finance.  • Working experience in Angular 4, 5, and 7 developing services, modules, components, directives, custom directives, routing, and performed validations.  • Solid understanding in single page applications (SPA) development using the Angular framework, Bootstrap, jQuery, and AJAX, which allows a program to function without page reloads.  • Experienced in designing the UI with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and Angular material.  • Expertise in Web based languages such as HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, and XML with framework.  • Experienced in .NET technologies including ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Web Forms, LINQ to SQL, Entity Framework 6, and MVC 5.  • Strong experience in developing .NET applications using Web services, Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), and Web API.  • Hands on experience in design and development of applications using Object Oriented languages, including Microsoft C# used in ASP.NET and Typescript in Angular projects.  • Proficient in both N-tier and Onion architecture, allowing for separation of concerns in projects that require RDS data.  • Expertise in SQL Server, writing Stored Procedures, User-Defined Functions (UDF), Views, Indexes, Triggers, Joins, and other Complex Queries using T-SQL.  • Expertise in creating SQL server reports using SSRS.  • Skilled in writing programs that can read and manipulate JSON script as another means of packaging data to be used in projects.  • Used postman to simulate and debug Web API and SOAPUI to test the WCF and Web Service based application.  • Demonstrated version control using SVN and Git via GitHub to allow contributions from team members into projects, as well as highlight progress, and issues.  • Successfully participated in software methodology such as Agile (Scrum), Test-driven development (TDD), and Waterfall methodologies.  • Self-motivated, collaborated with team, worked under high pressure, worked in several projects simultaneously, dynamic problem-solving, adept at working with minimal to supervision, and worked with highly-caliber teams of professionals. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Full Stack Developer (Angular4&7/Web API) ProSight Specialty Insurance Group - Morristown, NJ July 2018 to Present ProSight Specialty Insurance Group, Inc. is a private specialty insurance company based in Morristown, NJ. ProSight Health Plans Insurance Management System is fully automated and integrated application for managing the Policy plans, Agent Commission, incurred but not paid and Settlements. This Insurance Management System manages different claims per policies, claim settlements, and allows coverage verifications. I was involved in developing the claims management system and designing the front-end for management system.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, and Maintenance.  • Created Angular components, modules, and services to separate and decouple the different features of the project and to allow certain functionalities to be replicated throughout, such as employing Web API.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, AngularUI, Bootstrap, Angular Material, Forms, and Typescript at the front-end to provide design, styling, and logic for the project.  • Experienced in implementing authentication and authorization by using route guards and interceptors. The project requires email and password to check the credentials and used the JSON Web Tokens (JWT) to check the authorities of the users.  • Implemented pagination for the claims page by using Angular ngx-pagination and search filter by creating a custom filter pipe.  • Created angular services to serve for different functions, such as data services, account services, and route guard.  • Experienced on Web API and created web application, worked on CRUD actions (HTTP get, post, put, and delete), attribute routing, and used Http Response message approach.  • Accessed and updated data through RESTFUL services using JSON as the main request/response format.  • Enabled CORS to allow communication between the front-end Angular project and the back-end Web API functionality.  • Implemented LINQ-to-Entities queries operate on the entity set (DbSet type properties) to access the data from the underlying database.  • Implemented code first approach with entity framework to build connections between Web API and database.  • Designed and developed databases which include the development of functions, stored procedures, and triggers using T- SQL.  • Implemented Jasmine unit tests for Angular and used Karma to run the tests for Behavior Driven Development (BDD) Purpose.  • Used Postman to test the Web API to ensure proper functionality of the back-end.  • Managed all development tasks and source code modifications via Azure DevOps and Git.    Environment: C#, Visual Studio 2017, ASP.NET4.5, Web API, Angular4&7, Entity Framework 6, LINQ, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, SQL Server 2018, Agile, Postman, Git, Azure DevOps, Jasmine, and Karma. Software Developer (Angular5/Web API) Social Interest Solutions - Sacramento, CA May 2017 to June 2018 Social Interest Solutions is a national nonprofit dedicated to improving access to quality health and social services through policy and technology solutions. Health-e-Arizona Plus which is an on-line application for Arizona Residents. This application provides services to users to apply for medical coverage through AHCCCS, Nutrition Assistance (formerly known as the Food Stamp program), and Cash Assistance. Health-e-Arizona Plus is used even for existing customers or for those who are currently receiving benefits. I was involved in implementing the functions for user to create application for medical coverage and the management of applications.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis, design, and development of Web application.  • Implemented data exchange between components by using Angular, @Input, and @Output.  • Experienced in different types of data binding in angular, such as String Interpolation, Property Binding, Event Binding, and Two-Way Data Binding.  • Used Observable from the RXJS library in the Angular service layer to enable subscription in the component.  • Implemented Angular material dialog for users to create new applications.  • Created input fields with autocomplete for user input by using autocomplete in Angular Material.  • Implemented client-side validation by using Angular form validations when we need users' input.  • Created different business classes and interfaces using .NET Framework 4.5 with Object Oriented Programming Methodology.  • Expertise in creating JSON Web Token (JWT) role-based authentication in OWIN-based web application.  • Enabled Content Negotiation to allow Web API to request and response in different representations and formats.  • Implemented business logic using Action Filters like authorization filters, action filters, and exception filters.  • Used bundling to improve application performance.  • Utilized Onion Architecture to allow for separation of concerns and minimize coupling.  • Used Dependency Injection to promote reusable code and ease of maintenance.  • Implemented Unit Test classes for business class methods to check all possible conditions worked with test data provided using MOCK objects.  • Used Git from GitHub for version controls and code merges.    Environment: Visual Studio 2015, .NET Framework 4.5, SQL Server 2014, C#, Web API, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 4, Angular5, JSON, TSQL, and Unit Test. Software Developer Albina Community Bank - Portland, OR May 2016 to April 2017 Albina Community Bank is a Certified Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI) with a mission to increase economic opportunity and promote community development. The project is to develop an online investment management platform for corporations. The platform offers investment options such as stock, ETFs, mutual funds, and bonds. Users could create accounts and are able to choose from all the investment options. I was involved in implementing the functionalities for users' searching products and managing their stock, ETFs, mutual funds, and bonds.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC of the project from Design, Development, and Testing in Agile Scrum Methodology.  • Developed Views, Partial views using ASP. NET MVC and used MVC Routing rules to match the URLs of the incoming request.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery, and Ajax to implement filters with sliders for the Users' search purpose.  • Created user input field with autocomplete by using AJAX control and jQuery UI.  • Employed Layout page and multiple partial views to combine the views as a single view when launched and refreshed.  • Utilized Onion Architecture to allow for separation of concerns and minimize coupling.  • Repository Pattern is used to build the project by combining service-oriented applications. Most notably, the service employs Unit of Work to provide the functionality to the rest of the object.  • Applied data annotation to models in order to add constraints to database when using data first approach.  • Implemented conventions between objects with dissimilar types by using AutoMapper.  • SQL statements were used to obtain the appropriate data from database. For example, it is used in filtering the database during a search.  • Used MS SQL Server to create the tables and sample data via SQL commands. The sample data were used to test the application.  • Prepared unit test cases and performed N-Unit Testing prior to system implementation and wrote test cases for testing the code based on the requirements and involved in the Unit testing, Integration Testing, and Regression Testing.    Environment: Agile (Scrum), Windows, C#, .NET Framework, ASP. NET MVC 5, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, SQL Server, T-SQL, Visual Studio 2014, Unit Test, and Entity Framework 6. Software Developer AllCare Health - Grants Pass, OR May 2015 to April 2016 AllCare Health is an integrated health organization based in Southern Oregon. The project is a web based 3-tier software platform for the marketing departments to facilitate their recruitment and placement activities on line. Job requirements were standardized, candidate profiles, client requirements, and information are stored in database. The software provided for querying the database on the basis of the Job criteria. I was involved in developing Information Management System and payroll system.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for development process and Agile including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, and Maintenance.  • Developed an application that combines the concepts of ASP.NET MVC and Onion Architecture.  • Employed JavaScript, jQuery, and AJAX to enable searching and filtering of candidates without needing to reload the page. The functionality is connected to the front-end through WCF.  • Experienced in data exchange between view and controller by using ViewModel, strongly typed views, ViewBag, and ViewData. Used TempData to pass data between controller actions.  • Implemented routing and authentication for easy navigability and security through a username and password coupled with Form Validation.  • Created endpoints for WCF to build the runtime communication channels to send and receive message by using address, binding, and contract (ABC).  • Demonstrated create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) functionalities for hire requests and recruitments.  • Created queries to different data resources by using LINQ and Lambda Expression.  • Entity Framework Database First approach was used to allow the program to connect with the database.  • Created client-side validations with JavaScript and server-side validations with ASP. Net 4.5.  • Used SoapUI to test the WCF to ensure proper functionality of the back-end.    Environment: ASP. NET, C#, ADO. NET, Entity Framework 6, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, ASP.NET MVC5, LINQ, Web API, SQL Server, XML, JSON, and SoapUI. Software Developer (Web Forms) Siga Technologies Inc - Corvallis, OR June 2014 to April 2015 SIGA Technologies, Inc. is a pharmaceutical company set up in 1995 that is now based in New York City and Development operations in Corvallis, OR. Clinic Management System stores and manages patients' and medicine information such as the electronic medical records (EMR) and medicine management system. I was involved in developing the information and records management system.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, design, architecture, programming, testing, and implementation of the application.  • Developed an ASP. NET Web Form application in Visual Studio using the test-driven development (TDD) approach based on 3-layer architecture.  • Implemented searching and filtering of medicine information using JavaScript and AJAX.  • Involved in building flexible UI, more user interactive, and user-friendly web pages, reusable classes, functions using Web Form, C#, and JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Created buttons with similar styles and functions automatically with Repeater Control.  • Experienced in using ADO.NET which includes building connections to database by using SqlConnection with connection string and using DataReader and DataAdapter to fetch data from database.  • Implemented Dependency Injection with constructor injections for loosely coupled components using IOC container.  • Followed Agile (SCRUM) methodology, where progress and task assignment are discussed in everyday meetings.  • Involved in Unit testing using MS testing and integration testing of the entire application.    Environment: ASP. NET Web Forms, ADO.NET, AJAX, jQuery, Agile (Scrum), Unit test, Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server 2008, JavaScript, C#, TDD, and Unit Test. Education Master's Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, Git, Angular, Nodejs, Jquery, Web Api (3 years), Angular5 (1 year), Angular4&7 (1 year) Links http://@Input