Designer and Developer Designer and <span class="hl">Developer</span> Designer and Developer - Capital One Richmond, VA Dedicated professional who enjoys learning new technologies, working in a team  environment and creating functional, aesthetically beautiful web applications. Excellent  interpersonal and bilingual communication skills with a passion for helping others  succeed. Tenacious problem solver, with a strong interest in business development and  creative solutions. Work Experience Designer and Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA January 2019 to Present Worked in Agile methodology environment with frequently changing requirements  ? Designed and maintained client email marketing campaigns, including  implementation of A/B tests, conditional content, and delivery optimization  ? Used Movable Ink in email campaigns to track conversion rates and create  personalized email experiences for customers  ? HTML coding and development for email using responsive design and email  coding best practices  ? Environment: Movable Ink, Litmus Builder, Atom, Photoshop, Sketch Software Developer Veracity - Richmond, VA November 2017 to Present Worked in a total of three full stack applications  ? Created new reusable Angular components, templates, and sass files  ? Developed responsive web pages for smart devices using Bootstrap and media  queries  ? Performed quality assurance tests on all supported desktop and mobile browsers  in order to optimize content for mobile sites  ? Collaborated with diverse business and agile technology teams in order to identify and build solutions to address clients complex use cases  ? Environment: SASS, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Chrome Developer Tools, MVC, Agile, Git, Gulp and Atom Consultant & Freelance Richmond, VA May 2013 to March 2019 Social Media and content management  ? Effectively drove brand awareness, engagement and traffic to social channels  ? Multitasked numerous accounts to develop social media presence  ? Created innovative digital marketing campaign strategies for social channels  ? Designed and implemented 4 custom solutions for clients such as: social media  and brand significance Developer RTS Labs - Richmond, VA June 2016 to November 2017 Designed and executed digital solutions to address the client's needs and challenges in order to achieve their desired business outcome  ? Presented various solutions geared to drive user interaction and user experience  in the client's web application  ? Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported  browsers  ? Used HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Media Queries and JavaScript to build the responsive front-end pages for multi-devices  ? Designed, deployed and optimized three Front-End Ruby on Rails applications  ? Integrated React.js with existing Ruby on Rails application to enhance  front end experience  ? Environment: Web Pack JavaScript, React, Ruby on Rails, Wordpress, HTML5,    SASS, Bootstrap, Chrome Developer Tools, Github, Git, MVC and Atom Web Developer Miami, FL January 2016 to April 2016 Student  ? Over 500+ hours of programming in 8 weeks  ? Built various projects individually and in paired programming  ? Environment: HTML, CSS, Ruby on Rails, Bootstrap, Chrome Developer Tools, Github, Git, MVC, Sublime, Heroku Marketing Director Shore Aviation July 2015 to March 2016 Effectively deployed an online user friendly business solution to attract more  customers  ? Implemented 8 marketing and sales campaigns, and fundraisers  ? Established social media and brand significance Education Bachelor of Science in Psychology Virginia Commonwealth University - Richmond, VA December 2015 Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Rails, Sass, Css, jquery, Wordpress, Marketing, Sales, Customer Service Additional Information Technical Skills    HTML JAVASCRIPT ATOM GITHUB JQUERY  CSS WORDPRESS RAILS GIT SKETCH  BOOTSTRAP SKETCH ANGULAR SASS GULP