Full Stack .Net Developer Full Stack .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Miami, FL Motivated Mid - Level Software Developer with strong mathematical and algorithmic background. Skilled at learning  up-to-date technologies and further knowledge. Familiar with all the phases of the development life cycle. Experienced  at Cryptography, Data Base Management, Chain Supply Management and ERP Systems. Positive and adaptable to the  environment with empathetic, feedbacker, clear and concise communication Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack .Net Developer Quirch Foods - Coral Gables, FL April 2018 to Present  Part of the Development Team of Cosmos (ERP Desktop Software) for fast raising food distribution company. Create and design complex business entities in (Back-End) Data Base Tier (SQL Server). Implementation of consistent Object - Oriented Business Layer and friendly UI. Meet business requirements for Purchasing, Sales Support, Inventory Control and Logistics areas. NET Developer MCG Tecnologías July 2015 to December 2017 Developed and maintained OpenOpportunity ERP (ASP.NET Web API, Web Forms, Entity Framework,  SQL Server) for the automation of Integrated Management Systems implementing ISO standards.  Designed and implemented Data Base, Business Intelligence and UI tiers of Chain Supply Management  modules (Stocktaking, Storage, Allotment, Costs, Orders). Software Developer Center of Integrated Technologic Researching January 2014 to June 2015 Optimized an Elliptic Curve Library to be used by a Cryptosystem. Applied and developed Elliptic  Curves and Elliptic Curves Finite Groups selection methods for their uses in Cryptography. Designed and implemented a parallelizable kernel program of Rho de Pollard Attack to solve Elliptic Curve  Discrete Logarithm Problem, and its respective parallelization using Task Parallel Library. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Havana 2013 Skills .NET (3 years), ASP.NET (1 year), MS SQL (4 years), Object-Oriented Programming (4 years), C# (4 years), C++ (1 year), Javascript (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/pedro-bola%C3%B1os-142488159 Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  • C#, C/C++, JavaScript, Java, HTML, CSS, Visual Basic, UML.    • ASP.NET (Web API, MVC and Web Forms), .NET Core, Windows Forms, jQuery, Drupal,  Task Parallel Library.    • SQL Server, Entity Framework, ADO.NET, T -SQL, ORM.