Software Developer (C, UNIX, SQL. batch developer) <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (C, UNIX, SQL. batch <span class="hl">developer</span>) Software Developer (C, UNIX, SQL. batch developer) El Paso, TX • 6+ years of experience in Client/Server Applications, Worked on Several technologies like C, Pro*C, C++, OOPs, SQL and shell scripting, all on a UNIX platform including development, Integration and Testing.  • Peer reviews of the Design and Source Code (C, Pro*C, SQL and Shell Scripts).  • Hands on experience on complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the projects using methodologies like Agile and Waterfall methods.  • Experience in HIPPA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act), and EDI experience related to Health care and Retail Industries.  • Experience in using UNIX shell scripts for server monitoring, deployments, Synchronizing Source System to automate the process and Experience with file transfer methods (FTP).  • Developed UNIX scripts to run the Data stage job and other file validations.  • Experienced in writing data quality rules to ensure quality, consistency and accuracy of data.  • Very good Knowledge on Python Scripting.  • Worked on various EDI X12 HIPAA transactions for 837, 820, 834, 835, 997 and Retail transaction sets like 850, 810, 856, and 860.  • Experience in Business analysis to Translate EDI requirements into functional specifications. Experience on the EDI translators Gentran, GIS in implementing The EDI standards.  • Proficient in writing complex SQL Queries, Sub Queries, views, stored procedures, Normalization, Database Design, Functions, and Triggers.  • Worked extensively across various DBMS like SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g/11g.  • Extensive knowledge of writing SQL queries, working with back end tools for data validation and verification.  • Have knowledge on Programming Unix Shell Scripting, SQL and autosys job scheduler.  • Have solid hands-on experience in UNIX systems administration, hardware and software troubleshooting, and systems installation.  • Very good hands on experience in PL/SQL programming and good knowledge on RDBMS concepts.  • Experience in Testing, Data Validation and writing SQL and PL/SQL statements - Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and packages.  • Excellent analytical, inter-personal and communication skills with clear understanding of business process flow.  • Exceptional communication and presentation skills and established track record of client interactions.  • Experience in development methodologies like SDLC, AGILE, SCRUM and Waterfall.  • Excellent skills in problem solving, analysis, communication and documentation.  • Ability to work efficiently within the team as well as independently. Work Experience Software Developer (C, UNIX, SQL. batch developer) DXC Technology - El Paso, TX June 2018 to July 2019 Responsibilities:  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, coding, developing and testing various modules using C, Pro*C, UNIX and SQL.  • Worked for subsystems Interchange, Claims, TMSIS and MMIS Healthcare.  • Involved in product research, design and writing the technical documentation (SOW) as a SME.  • Created and processed new JIL requests and ensuring that jobs are scheduled properly and have run according to schedule using Autosys.  • Worked on resolving production issues being the primary production contact for Interchange PA Batch/Extract, Prior Authorization, Interchange PA - Letters and TMSIS.  • Worked on shell scripting in writing new Job scripts and updating the current scripts.  • Worked on debugging the code using GDB in Unix/Linux environment.  • Analysed data using complex SQL queries across various databases and created queries to match the fields proposed by customer.  • Working on code changes, identifying maximum test cases required, writing the test strategy, executing and performing the unit testing.  • Defining scope, plans and deliverables for assigned projects.  • Participated in the monthly release calls to understand the types of changes planned and begin to plan for pre and post release support.  • Coordinating and collaborating with team members in analysing collected requirements to ensure plans and identified solutions to meet customer needs and expectations.  • Created designs and hold internal team reviews on any new or updated scripts and participated on project work product reviews when requested.  • Provide after-hours application support as needed.  • Involved in knowledge transfer to the Team.  • Submit weekly status reports on the deliverables completed during the week and activities planned for next week.    Environment: C, Pro*C, UNIX/LINUX, Oracle DB, C/Batch, Perl, MMIS, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, SQL, XML/HTML Software Developer (C, UNIX, SQL. batch developer) HPE- DXC Technology - El Paso, TX July 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • As a developer involved in full development life cycle (SDLC) of the application including Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing of application using Pro*C, UNIX, and SQL.  • Design and develop solutions using C, Shell Scripting.  • Code implementation and patching of the system's processes through Cos& WI's (Change Orders& Work Items). Use of object-oriented programming methodologies.  • Developed C, Pro*C/Batch programs using Multithreading Programming for handling large volumes of data for parallel processing/load.  • Implemented the business logic in back end with Pro*C and C.  • Documentation: design, implementation and unit test documents for every CO worked on.  • Coordinate with all vendors, trading partners, and internal Business Functional teams to define EDI business requirements.  • Experience on Configuring Inbound and Outbound File systems Adapters (FSA). Performed Unit and system testing on all EDI transactions both inbound and outbound.  • Conducted and attended Walkthroughs with other SEs for implementation/promotion approvals.  • Use of (.diff) files for comparison between old code and new code.  • Created new database objects like Procedures, Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes and Views using T-SQL in SQL Server.  • Developed queries in SQL to retrieve data from tables and to test data integrity.  • Code Reviews. Lead or participate in code peer reviews.  • Worked on Subsystems like: TPL (Third Party Liability), Buy-in, Managed Care and Claims.  • Unit Testing, Acceptance (UAT) Testing and Production changes  • Identify new requirements and fixes. Create TDDs, Change orders and estimate metrics for implementation.  Environment: C, Pro*C, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, UNIX, Linux, Shell Scripting, python, Perl Scripting, HIPPA, Putty and Clear Case. C/C++ DEVELOPER CIS by Deloitte - Morrisville, NC November 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Did programming in C, C++ on UNIX platform which automated customized design process.  • Wrote a program in C and C++, which converted programmer's interface between two different types of database.  • Supported the integration of the core technology libraries into other user-friendly front-end applications.  • Wrote SQL statements in conjunction with embedded database library to use SYBASE relational database.  • Wrote a program in C, which parses computer logs and then displays the summary in automatically generated HTML files.  • Wrote a script in Perl, which in conjunction with version control system built a particular version of application.  • Contributed to make file project, which standardized all UNIX make files on the project.  • Wrote documentation for C programs written by myself and other programmers on the team.  • Worked on various Active Template Libraries (ATL) in various code optimization techniques.  • Created stored procedures and Written UNIX Shell scripts for testing the application and writing the SQL queries for Sybase database.  • Created SOAP web service in pushing data to downstream systems.  • Assisted business analyst in production testing before the final review of product.  • Involved in production support for maintaining the system developed and resolved the complexities and bugs raised by customers efficiently and effectively on time.  • Good exposure to the JIRA - project tracking tool. Using JIRA updates the work status, with the team and interacts with the other teammates across geography.  Environment: C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX, Linux, Shell Scripting, Sybase, Perl Scripting, UML. C/C++ DEVELOPER Baystate Health Care - Springfield, MA March 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Work as a product client team developer on a variety of platforms including Windows, Linux distribution using C++ Boost.  • Development of new modules for UNIX C++ applications.  • Worked with an alert system that generated alerts for customers based on specific events happening in the market using C++.  • Optimization and tuning of previous applications.  • Extensively worked on smart pointers (COM Pointer classes) for easy memory access.  • Optimization of applications and algorithms performance.  • Preparation of Unit test cases and execution of test cases.  • Used various Active Template Libraries for code optimization  • Performing Backup/Recovery of all the Oracle databases using Recovery Manager (RMAN)  • Reading existing source code in C to determine current programming logic.  • Created new database objects like Procedures, Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes and Views using T-SQL in SQL Server.  • Working with SQL database including making enhancements to stored procedures.  • Implementation and Unit testing of the modules.  Environment: C, C++, Sybase (SQL, PL/SQL), Oracle 10g/9i, UNIX, STL, Linux, Shell Scripting, SOAP, Sybase, Perl Scripting, COM. C/UNIX DEVELOPER Mahindra Financial Services Ltd May 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Work as a product client team developer on a variety of platforms including Windows, UNIX and Linux distribution using C and C++.  • Did unit testing for existing interfaces.  • Worked with a team of developers to analyse project requirements and add functionality to existing C applications and SQL databases, such as reading in claims in different formats from different sources, checking for errors, and converting them into a standard format.  • Reading existing source code in C to determine current programming logic.  • Working with SQL database including making enhancements to stored procedures.  • Used C++ interface/SQL to update/retrieve information from MySQL DB.  • Responsible for fixing problems wherever they are: product functionality; reliability, performance of product installation and update; network protocols.  • Work with QA team on new features testing and bug fixing.  • Extensive experience in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) covering Requirements Management, System Analysis, Architecture and Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of business applications.  • Worked closely with the QA team to review and develop XML data standards and data sharing models.  Environment: C, C++, UNIX, SQL Server, PL/SQL, STL, Linux, Shell Scripting, Perl Scripting, SOAP, COM. Software Analyst Wipro GE Healthcare Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed applications using programming languages like C, C++.  • Modified & tested scalable, multithreaded, high throughput C++ programs.  • Created PL/SQL module which was used to integrate the existing data from third parties and on to the database.  • Performed analysis and presented results using SQL, Oracle, MS Access, Excel, and Visual Basic scripts.  • Strong experience in C programming language with extensive knowledge of database management  • Used different batch scheduling software for running the program such that it reduces the overload.  • Designed and Populated specific tables, databases for collection, tracking and reporting of data  • Supported all the UNIX requests for various applications.  • Performance monitoring and tuning on UNIX systems. Develop step-by-step method using predesigned worksheets to eliminate much of guesswork in performance monitoring and tuning.  • Planned and developed various software application based on C environment  • Experience with C programming, software package support and UNIX shell scripting  • Developed UNIX Shell scripts to automate repetitive database processes.  • Involved in creating Test Plans, Test cases and Test Scripts using Quality Center.  Environment: C, C++ Programming, Oracle, SQL Server, UNIX shell scripting, HTML, Quality Center, UNIX, XML Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering California State University Fullerton 2016 Skills Ms access, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Linux, Shell scripting, Unix, Unix shell, Visual studio, C#, C++, Html, Ms project, Perl, Python, Scripting, Xml, Clear case, Git