Sr. AEM Developer Sr. AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. AEM Developer - Expedia Bellevue, WA • More than 9+ years of IT experience in design, development and maintenance of web application projects.  • Worked on design and implementation of modules on AEM 6.2 and CQ 5.6. Have a solid understanding of CQ5 building blocks, CRX repository, leveraging web content management components for customization and porting of websites.  • Proficient in gathering requirements and developing Business and Functional Requirement Documents (BRD and FRD) and converting them into Technical Specification Document.  • Expertise in developing integrated business applications using Hibernate, Spring framework (Spring Core Framework, AOP, Spring Integration, Spring Batch, Spring MVC, Spring Web flow and Spring Security), Struts, JSF Framework and Web Services (JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAXP, JAXB).  • Developed custom CQ components on top of JCR (Java Content Repository) and Apache Sling (A REST based web development framework on top of JCR) , CRX (Day's commercial JCR Implementation), and CQ5 (Day's latest suite of WCM, DAM, and Social Collaboration applications).  • Have a good understanding of CQ Mobile development concepts like server-side Mobile API, Mobile Components, Emulators, Device Groups, Device Detection and Mobile request processing.  • Have a good understanding of Social Collaboration and Campaign Management with CQ.  • Project Implementation skills using both core and advanced java technologies like JSP, Servlets, EJB, Hibernate and JDBC.  • Experience with SDLC process (Agile, Waterfall models) of performing detailed analysis, collecting use cases, documenting requirements and creating designs for Object Oriented Programming (OOPs) Applications.  • Good web page design skills using HTML, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, JQuery, JSON, Java Script, AngularJS, ReactJS and NodeJS.  • Good experience in coordinating and working with developers (Offshore and Onsite) and End Users in Team based environment.  • Experience in Installing/Configuring AEM.  • Extensive knowledge of J2EE Design Patterns, Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture for building J2EE Applications.  • Strong experience in troubleshooting AEM administration related issues.  • Experience in upgrading AEM.  • Knowledge of and experience with Adobe Acrobat Professional Software and Adobe Acrobat Reader Software.  • Working experience in Version control tools like SVN, GitHub and Perforce.  • Knowledge on common Front-end development tools such as NPM, Webpack, Babel and Grunt.  • Managed all social media Campaigns fronts including Internet forums blogs Social networking applications and message boards.  • In-depth knowledge and hands on experience in all facets of project life-cycle development (SDLC) from requirements, analysis, conceptual design through documentation, implementation, testing and maintenance.  • Developing system documents like Functional Specifications, Technical Specifications and User Manuals etc.  • Create, maintain and also customize existing database schema.  • Experienced in analyze the work flows between database and the business logic and customize according to the requirement using DB Queries.  • Highly motivated team player with excellent communication, presentation and interpersonal skills. Willing to work in a challenging and cross-platform environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. AEM Developer Expedia - Bellevue, WA February 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Designed and developed a content migration application to move online content into a platform wide enterprise CMS.  • Created AEM Templates and page components with custom dialogs • User Interfaces built with React. Backend Services and APIs built with Node.JS and Java.  • Developed Backend Web Services using Node.JS and stored dependencies using NPM • Extensive use of AEM tag libraries and custom tag libraries in components.  • Worked on dispatcher cache in AEM while working on Auto Login scenario.  • Created custom OSGi Services and servlets using Eclipse IDE with Maven.  • Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application in authoring environment.  • Involved in Code Review and in Unit testing using JUnit and Integration testing of the application.  • Experience in using GIT for pulling and committing the developed content from/to the GIT repository • Developed Components using React and PostCSS, collaborated with marketing and design to ensure components met Acceptance Criteria.  • Designed new hover functionalities for the existing applications.  • Analyzed and resolved technical issues relating to content management • Worked with HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, ReactJS and ES6 for developing user interface.  • Manage an enterprise CMS system for a multinational entity, implement a governance policy, create users and roles, and build workflows, as well as utilize Digital Asset Management.    Environment: AEM 6.2, JCR, Apache Felix, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, React JS, Node JS, ES6 and JSON. AEM Developer Western Union Digital - San Francisco, CA June 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities: • Perform CQ5 customization on foundation components, core CMS and workflows to extend functionalities, improve performance or fix issues on project level. Utilize HTML, CSS, J Query and ext JS for designing and implementing custom CQ components.  • Manage an enterprise CMS system for a multinational entity, implement a governance policy, create users and roles, and build workflows, as well as utilize Digital Asset Management.  • Involve with content management strategies and architecture and multichannel content delivery.  • Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) in CQ5 there by enforcing a common base structure and common content across all versions of website.  • Assisted in transition, Content Migration Plan from CQ 5.6 to AEM 6.1.  • Created components using sling HTML Templating language by replacing the traditional Java Server Pages (JSP) • Install and Configure core code bundles for AEM related Projects.  • Implemented the Sling Filter, Felix Filter, Sling Servlet, OSGI bundles for interacting with remote spring web app, web services and custom business logic in java and deploy as jar files from the Felix System Console.  • Have a complete understanding of CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • Utilize industry best practices including taxonomy, security, content publishing and content life cycles.  • Developed interactive forms, documents, templates and workflows in an integrated environment.  • Added some Java SE 8 New Package like java.uti. function, which contains Functional Interfaces Annotations.  • Provide author training to business users to familiarize them with the design and usage of the system • Implemented the internationalization (I18N) for all the components in Day.  • Worked on AEM CMS end and developed the custom grid components using Ext JS and integrated them with the insight web.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, apache rewrite rules for routing the calls to AEM and Spring Web app (dispatcher and mod_jk configuration), vanity URL configurations for different locales.  • Used Maven scripts to build the application and used the continuous integration server to deploy the artifacts into the son type nexus repository.  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  • Used Subversion for version control across common source code used by developers.    Environment: CQ 5.6.1, AEM 6.1, JCR, Apache Felix, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, AngularJS. AEM Developer MASTER CARD - O'Fallon, MO February 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities: • Created Users and Groups for workflow management.  • Documented each and every user story.  • Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  • Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system, Adobe CQ5.  • Provide estimates, designs, and specifications for CQ5 templates, components, and workflows • Built various web pages using HTML, CSS, Java Script, J Query and Angular JS.  • Developed services, controllers and directives for the components using Angular JS.  • Worked on CQ5 Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the • custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.Provide author training to business users to familiarize them with the design and usage of the system.  • Create and maintain customer-facing Adobe CQ5 content management systems.  • Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and • XPath.GIT is used as a distributed revision control system for CQ5. File vault in conjunction with GIT helps to pull or push the code to developer's machine.  • Worked on the landing pages, category landing pages using content management system Adobe CQ5 for the consumer portal.  • Used web technologies in the page components for the rich templates.  • Create Design dialogs for the common components in the entire portal.  • Worked in the DAM for the maintenance of the media files.    Environment: CQ 5.6, JCR, Apache Felix, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, AngularJS. JAVA Developer DXC - Tysons Corner, VA March 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities: • Involved in gathering the requirements from the business.  • Extensively worked on web services to interact with different systems.  • Used Java Script extensively to code client side validations.  • Used Web Services to get the authorization key Created User Interface using MVC pattern, • CSS, HTML, JQUERY, JSTL, JSF and AJAX. Developed screens for the Correspondence, • Insured Personal Information, Reports, Help Center using data tables and search • functionality. Developed a web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging Developed complex Advanced Search Screens Using JSF along with Pagination for the Claims data Developed python deamon processes that filter, price, and load CDR data to Oracle DB Involved in Analysis, design and coding on J2EE Environment. Involved in database programming in Oracle.  • Used Struts for implementing MVC and using layouts.  • Develop integration techniques using the Apache camel.  • Delegated Struts Action management to the spring framework.  • Assisted the IT team to develop service oriented architecture (SOA), and data warehouse system to utilize data mining for data analysis.  • Created and modified Stored Procedures, Complex SQL Commands for the application using PL/SQL.  • Developed web Components using Servlets and Server side components using Struts 2 under J2EE Environment.  • Supported to the QA team during the System Testing phase and fixed the Defects.  • Prepared the test data required to test all screens/functionalities in the application.  • Execute regression and Performance Loading test cases.  • Migrated the complete project from Struts1 to Struts2.  Environment: Java1.5, XML, XSD, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, Web Sphere 6.1, SQL, PL/SQL JAVA Developer Fiserv - Brookfield, WI July 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities: • Redesigned the existing site and to create new interfaces.  • Responsible for content and UI development.  • Developed HTML prototypes and ready XHTML documents with CSS style sheets.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Worked closely with the programmers and graphic designers for project requirement and • analysis. Used Web Sphere as the application server for deployment. Produced GUI • prototypes for business logic presentations. Developed user interface using JSP, Struts and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application. Coded Struts Action classes, Model classes.  • The new website has made it much easier for the users to access the page and check the required info. Created Stored Procedure, Trigger for database access and events.  • Created a website using HTML, designed all pages using CSS and Java script.  • Involved in the design and development of user profile planning for those accessing the system. Analyzed user requirements and converted into use cases.  • Responsible for managing website content Designed layouts on the front-end using Java script, CSS and DHTML. Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking.  • Created multiple types of content, each with different features.  • Adobe Photoshop has been used to create different banners and designs.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, HTML, CSS, XML, JAVA SCRIPT, JQUERY. Software Engineer New Relic - San Francisco, CA August 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities: • Work collaboratively on a team using agile practices to ship software incrementally with frequent customer feedback • Solve complex use cases that require close collaboration with product management and engineers who specialize in design, front-end UIs, customer-facing APIs, high-throughput data streaming systems, and computing and storage infrastructure • Build multi-threaded Java services that consume, convert, aggregate, evaluate, and emit data streams using Kafka • Be a part of a small team of engineers collectively accountable for the reliability and security of the team's software Software Engineer Developer Fidelity Investments - Boston, MA October 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities: • Crafting, developing, and implementing web applications in adynamic financial services environment • Contributing effectively at many different points in a project life • cycle as an individual contributo Adhering to project timelines, addressing and resolving technical issues • Participating in functional/technical group discussions with analysts and developers under moderate supervision • Delivering on both projects and support tasks in a dynamic environment • Implement test automation frameworks Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Java, Jboss, jquery, Jsp Certifications/Licenses Driver's License