Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Lending Tree Chicago, IL Work Experience Software Engineer Lending Tree December 2017 to Present Daily Tasks and Highlights:  ? Daily Issues and bug fixes on Credit Card Shopping Web solution www.comparecards.com  ? PPC Redirects Marketing Reports generation into Microsoft Excel using Symfony/MsSql  ? Short-code Creation and Management for compliance on the comparecards.com solution  ? Integrated Wordpress into Symfony so Features used on the main web solution is extended into a WordPress Framework. Features include shordcodes, visitor tracking, page tracking etc.  ? Created methods in symphony and combined it with wordpress methods to seamlessly migrate data from symphony developed blog into WordPress including plugins data like yoast  ? Custom Plugins, shortcodes and widgets development  ? Custom theme development and management  ? Optimized shortcode widget links created in symphony on wordpress  ? Periodically generated page tracking reports and related to Google Ads and ROI  ? Modules creation, features Design, Development and Deployment in request  ? Social Media API Integration and tests using postman  ? Cards API feature development for partner marketing companies using Slim/Symfony/Propel/Postman  ? Pixel Integration with partner agencies  ? Dev Environment migration from SFTP to docker/nginx Software Developer Etechnologies Inc February 2017 to December 2017 Design, Development and Deployment of a variety of projects  Projects Highlights:  ? Modules creation, features extension and Daily management of Loan Accounts Management software  using Codeigiter, Jquery, Mysql and Bootstrap which includes - o Loan Interest calculator for multiple types of loans  o Integration with Docusign and Contracts status alerts development  o Managed scripts to automate assigning clients to CSR's  o Client Individual contract preview REST API integration with Autopal(a third party loan  management software) and pdf content autofill  o REST API Integration with 3rd party credit checking company for automated loan qualification  evaluation  o Loan Refinance calculator development for multiple types of loans  o Loan applications status alerts based on agent, status and message  o Integration Loan Accounts Management Software with Twilio.  o Development of status to conversion report.  o Daily management, edits and module feature extension on Loan Management Software  ? Marketing Reports Backend REST API Setup using Symfony, Atlasian Bamboo, SourceTree, Bitbucket, Mysql, Docker, Ngnix and Git which includes  o Setup of Symfony project Repository on Bitbucket Server  o Setup of docker, docker container and ngnix web server  o Setup Project Build, Configure Plan and Task on Bamboo  o Developed scripts to fetch data from the database in JSON for API calls from ReactJS frontend  o I also optimized the Repository query for faster query processing  o Developed scripts to make API calls to dump data into database Freelance Web Programmer/ Software Developer March 2016 to December 2016 Design, Development and Deployment of a variety of projects.  Projects Highlights:  ? Re-design and re-development of a e-commerce website for a furniture store using opencart with features  such as products management, shopping cart, client accounts management, checkout, electronic payment  gateway integration (MasterCard and VISA), affiliate and resellership accounts, newsletter subscription etc.  ? (In development)Design and development of web app with a mobile app(android and apple platforms)for a startup beauty service company using HTML, CSS, AngularJS, Ionic framework, Firebase and Phonegap.  ? Design and development of Money Exchange Accounts management application(Indevelopment).  Features include clients profile management, accounts management, sms gateway integration etc. Software Developer (Lead) THE GIG GROUP February 2014 to December 2015 Provide and manage object-oriented software (OOS) design and development solutions for the group and subsidiaries with business in land transport, oil and gas, power generation services, real estate, online news  media, logistics and courier services. Develop and customize software for diverse client base. Achievement  Highlights:  ? Design and development of an in-house built, fully-customized, online ticket booking website solution (first  for a land transport company in Nigeria) for the transport subsidiary (www.godisgoodmotors.com).  Solution specification includes online ticket purchase, seat reservation management, bus hire request  management, schedule services management, electronic payment integration (MasterCard and VISA), Captain/bus movement chart which has increased the revenue of the transport subsidiary tremendously  ? Contributed to the development of the web service engine (www.gigmops.com) which integrates with the online reps at our various transport offices, Captain/bus movement chart, mobile application on Windows  Android and IOS for bus allocation planning.  ? Developed from the scratch a full fledges website for the power generation subsidiary  (www.ziusspowerng.com).  ? Contributed to the development and management of www.ripples.com.ng, an online news publication for Richmondhill Media, a news and media subsidiary of The GIG Group.  ? Design and Development of a library management software for the GIG Learning Academy, an in-house  staff training department under the HR for library management. Integrated Google Authentication API for access  ? Integrated and managed the group email account with Google for business  ? Introduced methodologies and best practices that enhanced product definition, release processes and customization of applications to user needs. Software Engineer (Freelance) PRODIGIT CONSULTING - NG January 2013 to February 2014 Nigeria  Assisted in the design and setup of service solutions for the above named company www.hostnownow.com, www.learnnownow.com solutions and upcoming solutions like www.smsnownow.com and  www.newsnownow.com for a fast growing IT services company. Achievement Highlights:  ? Provided support for design, development, deployment and management of company  www.hostmowmow.com, one of the fasted growing hosting companies in West Africa offering services  such as shared and VPS hosting, domain registration and reservation, SSL resellership, website design and software solutions development.  ? Worked as part of a team for the development of www.learnownow.com, an online training platform  majoring in educational, vocational and professional training delivering service through live-virtual  training, onsite training and video-training sessions.  ? Developed a client management software for Lifepage Group and Pertinence Group, both real estate firms  with a combined customer base of almost 100,000.(pertinence.prodigit.com.ng and lifepage.prodigit.com.ng) Education STANLY COMMUNITY COLLEGE January 2016 Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering OLABISI ONABANJO UNIVERSITY July 2012 Skills PHP, MySQL, Git, HTML 5, jQuery, Javascript, CSS Links http://github.com/temmiezy http://Hurl.it