Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Aurora Solutions Inc Richardson, TX • Around 6 Years of experience in the Software Development Life Cycle including analysis, design, development, implementation, testing, maintenance and documentation.  • Extensive experience in developing Web based applications using JAVA, J2EE Standards JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Java Beans, EJB, JMS, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL).  • Java UI Developer with extensive experience building rich, single-page applications using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Extensively experience in using Angular JS in Creation of web pages includes adding objects, Manipulation of the objects, Adding forms, Data Validations, Calling date and time functions, Calling Object oriented functions, and 2 way binding.  • Proficient in Web designing & development, using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, Angular.js, JSP, JSON, JSF and Ajax.  • Experience applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event - driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML.  • Experience with cloud environments like Microsoft Azure and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Understanding of UX principles and best practices.  • Experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD).  • Good understanding of JavaScript design patterns and MVC frameworks.  • Knowledge of common browser developer tools and performance tuning techniques.  • Good experience in log4J implementation to persist the data into log files and experience with Ant and Maven for the build and deployment of applications.  • Experience with Agile (Scrum) and test driven development (TDD) and version control (SVN, Git, etc.).  • Working knowledge of Java Web Services with real time knowledge using SOAP, REST.  • Experience in supporting application in various environments like User Acceptance test and production.  • Experience with backend Database languages like Oracle, DB2, SQL server, MYSQL, SQL lite with SQL programming language like PL/SQL Database environments. Strong in-depth knowledge of various database systems.  • Extensive knowledge in analyzing Stored Procedures and experienced in using PL/SQL to create stored procedures.  • Expert in Extraction, Transforming and Loading (ETL) data flows using SSIS.  • Extensive experience with Waterfall and Agile Scrum methodology work environment. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java Developer Aurora Solutions Inc - Schaumburg, IL September 2018 to Present Description: Skorboard is a business analytics platform. Skorboard provides at-a-glance views of KPIs (key performance indicators) relevant to a objective or business process (e.g. sales, marketing, awareness, and engagement). Often, the "dashboard" is displayed on a web page that is linked to a database, which allows the report to be constantly updated. Skorboard shows visualization of data in the form of charts, which compare huge amount of data simultaneously; it is developed mainly for e-commerce websites for predictive analysis and to make better decisions.    Responsibilities:  • Involving in application enhancements for data visualization and data analysis using third party APIs.  • Designed and developed Application based on Spring framework using MVC design patterns.  • Involved in designing the front-end web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and Angular JS for the effective web designing.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript, codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front-end development frameworks including Bootstrap.  • Designed dashboard using D3plus.js, chart.js, and jvector.js for creating different graphical representation of data.  • Developed Angular pages, Web services calls, and AJAX calls for the application.  • Created custom Directives and linking functions to control the application logic.  • Using AJAX the web pages are updated asynchronously by exchanging small amounts of data with the server without loading the entire page.  • Used Angular in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from  • Database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Designed and developed the UI using Angular Framework and implemented MVC hybrid design pattern.  • Used J2SE for writing business logic using collection frame works, handled user defined errors using exception handling.  • Implemented OAuth 2.0 authorization and authentication procedure to connect and retrieve Google Analytics, Core Reporting API data.  • Integrated R packages with Java for predictive analysis.  • Implemented stored procedures, SQL functions for retrieving data from multiple tables.  • Creating environment for user-acceptance testing and facilitating Integration and User Acceptance Testing with JUNIT.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Developed JUnit test cases using Junit and Mockito for unit test of all developed modules.  • Performed database synchronization on production and test systems to monitor data flow and fix bugs.  • Used GIT repository hosted on cloud platform.  • Participated in and contributed to design reviews and code reviews.  Environment: JAVA 1.8, D3plus.js, Mockito, Angular JS, Springboot, Micro services, Spring MVC, API, Bootstrap. Application Developer Follett Corporation - Dallas, TX September 2016 to August 2018 Follett provides educational services and products to colleges, schools, and libraries. A daily flash Sales report tells you how sales are running compared to your budget plan and how your business is trending. We automated the calculation of actual sales, forecast sales, variance etc. We automated the generation of sales report and email it every day morning without any human intervention.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in project planning sessions with business analysts and team members to analyze business IT Requirements and translated business requirements into working model.  • Involved in architecting various Business Layer and Data Management components of multi-tiered web based system.  • Involved in Migration of Legacy Web Application User Interfaces to Single-page application using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap.  • Modified code base and architecture on large legacy application into new Production Angular level product.  • Implemented unit test cases using Karma and Jasmine for Angular JS on client side.  • Co-ordinated with the sales team to analyze and understand the requirements to generate the daily sales report.  • Used Apache POI, API to create, modify and display the sales report in Excel Spread sheets.  • Adjustment screens are developed using JSP and JavaScript.  • Used Apache-HSSF for populating and calculating the report in MS Excel.  • Developed PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers, cursors and sequences on Oracle and performed PL/SQL tuning for the performance of the database by making necessary changes in java as well as DB code.  • Designing, creating database, writing DDL, DML statements and populating the SQL Server database.  • Followed Agile methodology and Participate in Sprint planning meetings with business users and prioritizing user stories.  • Extensive experience in using Quality Center & JIRA for Defect Tracking and WINSCP, PUTTY to access production.  • Used GIT for version control.  Environment: JAVA, GIT, Angular js, Bootstrap, JSP, HTML5, JAVA Script. Graduate Teaching Assistant University of Houston Clear Lake January 2016 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Assist Dr. Gary D. Boetticher with Software Construction class material preparation.  • Advise graduate students to develop projects using Java/J2EE technologies and web services (Refactoring Java code, debugging code, Test Driven Development).  • Involved in designing UML diagrams and converting them to Java code, debugging, TDD and BDD Software Developer Symphony Teleca - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2012 to December 2014 Mondelezs  Mondelezs application is having various reports, helps to understand the discounts offered to retailer by manufacturers. There are 2 main modules in this application. In Database manager layer, the client can configure the tolerance percentages, mapping between category and product, product and sales driver, planogram and category etc. In Trade terms, the discounts are shown as reports in different formats (browser, cube, and graph). Manufacturer maintains a sales catalogue to keep track of the discounts that he/she should give to the retailer through the following methods:    Responsibilities:  • Onsite travel to United Kingdom for application support.  • Involved in complete software development life cycle management using UML (Unified Modeling Language).  • Requirements gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detailed design, and Development.  • Used J2SE for writing business logic using collection frame works, handled user-defined errors using exception handling and involved in refactoring and debugging the code.  • Used servlets as control logic to interact with business objects containing all the business logic.  • Implemented MVC architecture and DAO design pattern for maximum abstraction of the application and code reusability.  • Developed persistence logic using JDBC to interact with SQL server.  • Done unit testing using JUnit.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Created databases and schema objects including tables, indexes and applied constraints, connected various applications to the database and written functions, stored procedures and triggers.  • Designed SSIS Packages to transfer data from flat files and oracle 10g to SQL Server using Business Intelligence Development Studio.  • Used ETL (SSIS) to develop jobs for extracting, cleaning, transforming and loading data into data warehouse.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  • Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP.  • Used JSON encoding and decoding techniques to convert complex objects to string and vice versa.  • Used IBM Clear Case for version control.  Environment: JAVA, J2EE, MVC, SOAP, ETL, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript Audit Report June 2013 to January 2014 Description: Audit Reporting is a tool where the client can know who has created, modified or deleted a section. A product placed on a planogram, modified or deleted. Product added to product hierarchy, modified or deleted. Store added, modified or deleted. They also can know at what time the changes have been done, created or deleted. They can also know the older and the changed values.    Responsibilities:  • Designed Class diagrams, sequence diagrams using UML and prepared high-level technical documents.  • Extended and maintained existing modules as requested by the clients.  • Developed JSP as the view, Servlets as the controller and JDBC as the persistence logic.  • Done unit testing using JUnit.  • Applied Object Oriented Programming concepts in developing the project.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Created databases and schema objects including tables, indexes and applied constraints, connected various applications to the database and written functions, stored procedures and triggers.  • Designed SSIS Packages to transfer data from flat files and oracle 10g to SQL Server using Business Intelligence Development Studio.  • Used ETL (SSIS) to develop jobs for extracting, cleaning, transforming and loading data into data warehouse.  • Used IBM Clear Case for version control.    Assign Reassign Dec 2012 - May 2013  Assign Reassign utility is used to assign a single store to category hierarchy, multiple stores to category hierarchy, and multiple stores to multiple category hierarchy, this utility also used to reassign a store from category hierarchy.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing web forms using HTML, CSS and JavaScript for client side data validation.  • Experience in design and development of applications using .NET Framework, C# .NET.  • Designed, developed and deployed WPF based windows Applications.  • Involved in writing data access layers with C#.  • Developed screens using ASP.Net server controls & did form field validations server side validations using ASP.Net validation controls.  • Created databases and schema objects including tables, indexes and applied constraints, connected various applications to the database and written functions, stored procedures and triggers.  • Designed SSIS Packages to transfer data from flat files and oracle 10g to SQL Server using Business Intelligence Development Studio.  • Used ETL (SSIS) to develop jobs for extracting, cleaning, transforming and loading data into data warehouse.  Environment: ETL, JAVA, HTML, CSS, JAVA Script, C#, ASP.NET. Education Master's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, SPRING, jQuery