Sr.NET Full stack Developer Sr.NET Full stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.NET Full stack Developer - Cardinal Health Dallas, TX • Over 8 years of experience in .Net Development including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Maintenance and Production Support of Business applications.  • Expertise in developing application using .NET 4.5/ 4.0/ 3.5/2.0, MVC 5/4, C#.Net, ASP.Net, LINQ, AJAX, XML, JavaScript, React jS, Clojure, Ruby, Microsoft Azure, Silverlight, jQuery, JSON, Angular JS, HTML and CSS, Web Services and WCF.  • Expertise in developing applications on various versions of visual studio such as VS2008, VS2010, VS2012, VS2015, vS2017.  • Extensive experience in ORM (Object Relation Mapping), Entity Framework Code First Database First approach.  • Ability to prioritize and plan tasks, multi-task on multiple projects using conceptual and practical knowledge on all phases in Software Development Life Cycle.  • Implemented the Microsoft Azure Development and Deployment.  • Implemented the Features Security, Performance, CRUD operations and Migrations etc.  • Experience on internet-based software apps using ASP, ADO, IIS, HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, COM, DCOM and JavaScript, j Query, Knockout JS.  • Sound knowledge of Multithreading and Caching using C#.Net.  • Sound Knowledge of MS Excel and MS Access  • Experience of Design patterns like MVC, MVP and MVVM.  • Experience in Node JS for JavaScript.  • Extensive Experience in WPF.  • Experience in creating Services and Endpoints and working with WCF  • Experience in data accessing using Data Adapter, Data Reader & Data Set in ADO.NET and Language Integrated Query (Lin Q), and Lin Q to SQL & Lin Q to XML.  • Knowledge of SharePoint Object Model and Web services API.  • Having experience in writing reports, Reporting Service (SSRS) and analytical services for the applications (customize scrum reports).  • Knowledge in Database Programming using RDBMS concepts in various RDBMS software like SQL Server 2012/2008/2005, Oracle 11/10g.  • Working experience on Multithreading, Asynchronous & event based programming.  • Experience in DNN DotNetNuke for content management system.  • Expertise in developing Web Forms using static and dynamic data.  • Hands on experience in designing tables, database schemas, writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Views, DTS and Normalization of Database Schema.  • Transaction Management using T-SQL and PL/SQL performance tuning in databases for SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000.  • Experienced in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Crystal Reports for report generation, integration into .NET applications.  • Experience in querying using LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML and other data sources.  • Experience in Couchbase Server.  • Hands on experience developing reusable components using Object Oriented Techniques.  • Hands on experience create, receipt, and track purchase orders for ecommerce and marketing department.  • Ensure timely processing of customer invoices using internal company procedures.  • Hands on experience in Elastic Search.  • Proficiency in reports generation using Crystal Reports, SSIS and SSRS.  • Extensively worked on writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Views and Database Design.  • Experience in working with iterative Agile Programming Methodology, Scrum.  • Used Windows PowerShell for configuration management and task automation.  • Experience using SSIS tools like Import and Export Wizard, Package Installation and SSIS Package Designer.  • Involved on migrating SQL Server databases to SQL Azure Database using SQL Azure Migration Wizard.  • Extensive experience in creating rich content Web-Forms, Win-Forms (Windows Forms), Web User Controls, Custom Control, Server Controls, Windows Service and Web Service.  • Worked with Source Controls like Team Foundation Server 2013/2010, Git Hub for creating branches, rebasing, merging and deploying code.    Technical Skill Matrix    Programming Languages C#.Net ,VB.NET, C++, Core JAVA  Web Technologies  ASP.NET 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, ASP.NET MVC 5.0/4.0/3.0,Silverlight 4.0/3.0, Ajax,HTML, Javascript,Jquery,VB.Net,Angular Js,React jS,Ruby,clojure.    XML Technologies XAML, XML,XSLT, XPATH, XSL, LINQ to XML  .Net Frameworks .Net Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0/1.x  UI Technologies Winforms,WPF, Jquery UI, Kendo UI  Test Frameworks NUNIT, MBUNIT, MOQ Framework, NSubtitute  IDE Tools Visual Studio 2015/2013/2012/2010/2008/2005, Sql Server Management Studio,Expression Blend(4.0/3.0/2.0)  Databases MS SQL SERVER 2012/2008/2005/2000,MSAccess 2010/2007/2003,Oracle 10g/9i/8i  Reporting tools Sql Server Reporting Services (SSRS 2008/2005), Crystal Reports (2010/9/8.5/8).  Version Control Tools Visual SourceSafe, SubVersion, Team Foundation Server(TFS),Git  Application Servers IIS Express,Microsoft IIS(7.0/6.0/5.0/4.0)  Middleware WCF, ADO.NET 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0,MSMQ, Web Services,Enterprise Library 5.0/4.0/3.1  Modeling tools UML,MS Visio 2007/2010/2013 Work Experience Sr.NET Full stack Developer Cardinal Health - Dallas, TX September 2016 to Present The project deals with Medical Information System. The main objective of this system is to provide emergency information of the individuals, who have registered with this system to the consulting doctor. The main features of this system are intranet online registration of individuals, advertisement, administration module to monitor the performance of the system and displaying of emergency information with Internet Technology  Responsibilities  • Involved in the complete development life cycle (SDLC) by providing valued services to the developers, clients, other team members and the Business users by closely understanding the requirements.  • Involved in developing web applications using ASP.NET MVC.  • Followed Scrum and Test-Driven Development Methods in Agile Scrum Methodology to produce high Quality software.  • Developed various external websites for the pharmacy.  • Designed and developed front end using JavaScript, HTML, jQuery and AngularJs etc.  • Developed single page applications using React JS.  • Worked and collaborated with the team and helped the team in implementation ideas.  • Researched on various technologies to best suit the requirements.  • Created WCF Services responsible for communicating and providing real time data from integrated server to Client Application.  • Created the Master Pages for the Branding the website using SharePoint Designer.  • Implemented client-side application to invoke SOAP and Restful Web Services.  • Used SharePoint Object Model for developing the Web Parts with C#.NET as the language for development to meet the user requirements.  • Used JSON Serializer in data contract of WCF to generate the data in JSON format  • XML and REST micro services were used to exchange structured and typed information with help of web service over the Internet.  • Used and created Silverlight in various applications.  • Worked on WCF.  • Implemented Elastic Search in the project.  • Worked extensively on Winframes  • Implemented Couchbase server inserting, storing and manipulating the data.  • Analyzed business, functional, and technical requirements to make sure project met expectations  • Error logging using Exceptional Handling in T-SQL and SSIS.  • Worked on SSIS Package, DTS Import/Export for transferring data from Database (Oracle and Text format data) to SQL Server.  • Maintaining the version control of the project in Team Foundation Server (TFS) by merging the module developed with latest version in TFS.  • Wrote triggers for sending Emails after to clients after any kind of transaction has been made  • Implemented the Microsoft azure Development and Deployment.  • Involved in retrieving data using LINQ to SQL and LINQ to Objects with ASP.NET, worked with the database using LINQ to SQL.  • Worked and mentored other team members to help them understand walk through the situation.  • Wrote SQL Queries, T-SQL queries and Stored Procedures to maintain proper data flow.  • Experience with BPM and Work flow concepts.  • Worked on Kendo UI for Designing Front end Pages.  • Involved in Designing, Analyzing, building and testing of OLAP cubes in SSAS and adding calculations using MDX.  • Resolved production support issues and closed in time on a day to day basis.  • Provided product support and First Tier, Second Tier support to ensure high quality delivery of the project and customer satisfaction by working with customers, and team members closely.  • Conducted Knowledge Transfer sessions for the Junior Team members.    Environment: j Query, JavaScript, Angular Js 2.0, Knockout js, SharePoint, WCF, SOAP/REST, ASP.NET, ASP.NETMVC, Visual Studio2012,2015, CSS, IIS, SQL Server 2008R2/2012/2015, Windows 2008. Full Stack Developer DreamWorks Animation - Los Angeles, CA May 2015 to August 2016 DreamWorks Animation is an American film production label of Amblin Partners marketed and distributed by Universal Pictures. Movies like Shrek, Kung-Fu Panda, Madagascar, and How to Train Your Dragon to name a few where DreamWorks Animation spreads its love to world.  Responsibilities  • Worked on implementing all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle from Planning to Deployment in each application.  • Involved on Requirement Gathering and Analysis of Business Processes with development goals to gain knowledge about the strategy of software test solutions  • Developed Applications Using Ruby, React js, Clojure  • Designed the user interfaces for the web portal abiding the guidelines of the W3C standards  Developed web interfaces for embedded related applications and software using HTML, CSS, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, Angular Js and Node.js  • Developed the buttons, audio, video, media and uploaded file tags using CSS for the online web pages  • Coded on Forms, Helpers, Alert, Popover, scroll spy, Tooltip components in the embedded web application using CSS and Bootstrap  • Implemented the two-way databinding and code reuse in the modules using Angular Js custom directives  • Designed web applications using HTML and JavaScript, including JavaScript libraries like j Query.  • Implemented Web Forms, Web Controls, Win Forms.  • Implemented Object Oriented Concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation and methodologies  • Implemented the Mongo DB  • User interfaces can be made faster and responsive by adding and rendering view components using React.js  • AJAX tags for managing the client-server requests for consulting appointments  • Implemented input validation using the Java Script  • Developed and consumed WCF Services to achieve Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and communication between heterogeneous applications, Implemented WCF Contracts such as Service Contract, Operation Contract, and Data Contract    Environment: Visual Studio 2010, C#, ASP.NET, HTML, Angular JS, Ajax, JavaScript, CSS, XML, Bootstrap, SQL 2008R2,2015,vs2015. .NET Developer Real Page - Dallas, TX July 2013 to March 2015 Compliance Depot (Vendor Credentialing System) supports online processing of insurance documents, professional licenses, and business requirements, with advanced features like online invoicing, ordering and Bid Management.    Responsibilities  • Gained knowledge from onsite team member, which included code base and Business.  • Involved in development process of new modules in agile methodology including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Developed XML Schemas for Data Object design for communication with web service and existing Application Infrastructure  • Developed solutions for diverse programming scenarios in C#, employing Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts such as: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction and Design patterns like Abstract factory.  • Developed WCF Restful, web services using Entity Framework as the data access layer to SQL Server.  • Designed the web UI using ASP.NET4.0, CSHTML5, CSS, AJAX and jQuery controls.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#, GUI (Graphical User Interfaces) VB.NET, ADO.NET, .NET Framework 2.0  • Develop, follow, and implement Security Policies/Active Directory policies, strategies, guidelines, standards and procedures.  • Worked with ADO.NET to interact with the SQL Server 2008 (i.e. retrieving, updating and inserting data into the tables) for Alerts.  • Writing Queries using T-SQL Statements, Views, User Defined Functions, Complex Stored Procedures, Triggers in SQLServer2008 for inserting/Updating/Deleting the data into the relational tables.  • Written Stored Procedures in SQL Server 2008 used ADO.NET and Grid View, Data List, Details view, Repeaters, Dataset Classes for data manipulation.  • Created and deployed XML Web Services (WCF) using ASP.net and C#, used them to generate the proxy class files based on the web services and consumed in web application.    Environment: Visual Studio 2010, C#, ASP.NET, WCF, MVC, XML, IIS, AJAX, Framework 4.0, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, REST, SQL Server Reporting Services, NUNIT, SQL Server 2008, UML. Application Developer Citizens Bank - Columbus, OH December 2011 to May 2013 Citizens Bank Public Sector Banking and financial services company. The project involved the complete design and deployment of the Account Information System. Its principal business is to process payments between the banks of merchants and the card issuing banks or credit unions of the purchasers who use the MasterCard brand debit and credit cards to make purchases.    Responsibilities  • Designed and implemented application using .NET Framework 3.0.  • Implemented Web Services and application security using .NET  • Customized Menu, Label, Toolbar, Grid View Columns Using Custom Controls  • Worked in Serialization and De- Serialization of XML to transmit the data  • Worked extensively on web forms and data binding controls like Grid View, Data List and drop down and Mapping page fields to the database fields.  • Involved in developing rich user Interface and Animations for WPF Applications using XAML.  • Writing Queries using T-SQL statements, views, user defined functions, stored procedures, Triggers for SQL Server to insert/update/ delete data into relational objects.  • Involved in developing class library using C#.Net for 3-tier architecture.  • Used ADO.NET such as Data set, Data Adapter, Data Reader to hold data which is coming from data access layer.  • Created business object and data access classes using C#.Net, ADO.NET built-in library  • Worked extensively on SharePoint Document management on a core Level    Environment: C#.Net, UML, MVC, HTML, CSS, Java Script, PL/SQL, MS Access, UNIX and Shell Scripting Associate Software Engineer Navayuga InfoTech - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to October 2011 NIT is committed to delivering leading edge, innovative and high-quality business solutions, which ensure customer delight. A strong focus on processes, flexibility in delivery models and long-lasting partnerships provide the highest level of efficiency and customer satisfaction.    Responsibilities  • Designed and developed n-tier architecture framework to leverage the total development process  • Designed and implemented application using .NET Framework 3.0.  • Implemented Web Services and application security using .NET  • Customized Menu, Label, Toolbar, Grid View Columns Using Custom Controls  • Worked in Serialization and De- Serialization of XML to transmit the data  • Worked extensively on web forms and data binding controls like Grid View, Data List and drop down and Mapping page fields to the database fields.  • Involved in developing rich user Interface and Animations for WPF Applications using XAML.  • Writing Queries using T-SQL statements, views, user defined functions, stored procedures, Triggers for SQL Server to insert/update/ delete data into relational objects.  • Involved in developing class library using C#.Net for 3-tier architecture.  • Used ADO.NET such as Data set, Data Adapter, Data Reader to hold data which is coming from data access layer.  • Created business object and data access classes using C#.Net, ADO.NET built-in libraries.  • Worked extensively on SharePoint Document management on a core Level.    Environment: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2008, UML in MS Visio, MVP, HTML, WPF, XAML, TFS, Angular JS, CSS and Visual Studio 2008. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science OSMANIA UNIVERSITY