Apigee Lead Consultant Apigee Lead Consultant Lead Developer (APIGEE) Wellington, FL Focused, Motivated, Diligent Professional seeking to pursue for a challenging career opportunity within Software Development (APIGEE) to contribute and expand upon skills, experience and capabilities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Apigee Lead Consultant Florida Power and Light Co - West Palm Beach, FL January 2019 to Present • Proactively assist in the management of a portfolio of clients, while reporting to Senior Managers and above  • Experience with design and development of REST API platform using APIGEE/APIM.  • Design, develop, configure, and troubleshoot APIs and policies using APIGEE  • Managing and implementing SLA of highly available, robust and scalable API platform and platform sizing  • Engaging with SSO and integrating with various enterprise IdAM platforms and NoSQL database (DocumentDB, Cloud Datastore, MongoDB)  • Implementing CI/CD pipelines and DevOps practices  • Working within established Software Development Lifecycles and methodologies including agile, scrum, iterative & waterfall to support the success of the organization  • Collaborating with multidisciplinary teams in resolving complex technical issues  • Experience in API layer like security, custom analytics, throttling, caching, logging, monetization, request and response modifications etc. using APIGEE  • Proficient in Drupal, including custom module development, key contributed modules and core API.  • Lead the technical planning & requirements gathering phases to estimate, develop, test, manage projects, architect and deliver cutting-edge solutions.  • Convert web services from SOAP to REST or vice-versa, using Apigee API management platform.  • Design and develop API platform to connect to various disparate backend systems for seamless data exchange.  • Responsible for design of API Gateway configuration Review of detailed designs, to ensure appropriate security, scalability, reliability, end user experience, and business reports and analytics  • Proactively assist in the management of a portfolio of clients, while reporting to Senior Managers and above  • Experience with design and development of REST API platform using APIGEE/APIM.  • Design, develop, configure, and troubleshoot APIs and policies using APIGEE  • Managing and implementing SLA of highly available, robust and scalable API platform and platform sizing  • Engaging with SSO and integrating with various enterprise IdAM platforms and NoSQL database (DocumentDB, Cloud Datastore, MongoDB)  • Implementing CI/CD pipelines and DevOps practices  • Working within established Software Development Lifecycles and methodologies including agile, scrum, iterative & waterfall to support the success of the organization  • Collaborating with multidisciplinary teams in resolving complex technical issues  • Experience in API layer like security, custom analytics, throttling, caching, logging, monetization, request and response modifications etc. using APIGEE  • Proficient in Drupal, including custom module development, key contributed modules and core API.  • Lead the technical planning & requirements gathering phases to estimate, develop, test, manage projects, architect and deliver cutting-edge solutions.  • Convert web services from SOAP to REST or vice-versa, using Apigee API management platform. Design and develop API platform to connect to various disparate backend systems for seamless data exchange.  • Responsible for design of API Gateway configuration Review of detailed designs, to ensure appropriate security, scalability, reliability, end user experience, and business reports and analytics Sr. Developer/Lead Royal Bank Of Canada - Toronto, ON September 2017 to December 2018 ·     Building Canada’s first banking developer portal using google Apigee edge API management platform.   ·     Lead the development effort of web services, Design and develop SOAP based Web services, Develop XML schema designs  ·     Clear understanding of web services and SOA related standards like REST/OAuth/JSON and SOAP/WSDL  ·     Extensive experience designing API endpoints (preferably using OpenAPI or Swagger YAML)  ·     Experience creating and managing API proxies and policies  ·     Experience implementing and organizing API endpoints into product bundles for Application consumption.  ·     Experience implementing various security policies leveraging APIKEY, Oauth or SAML assertions.  ·     Building / developing custom Drupal Modules (plugins) in PHP  ·     System lifestyle management experience, understanding best practices for implementing continuous integration through Jenkins   ·     Experience building web-apps, web-forms, and utilizing HTTP APIs  ·     Critical thinking and problem-solving skills and experience in reverse-engineering existing systems and codebases  ·     Ensure the technical feasibility of UI/UX designs  ·     Understanding of Latest industry architecture patterns  ·     Should be able to work independently using mocks and requirements to implement and customize Drupal modules  ·     Solid fundamentals around hooks, APIs and Drupal core mechanism  ·     Good knowledge of Cloud based and in-house infrastructure on project need basis  ·     Good understanding of best practices for custom code using PHP, Twig template engine, Java Script, CSS 3, HTML 5, Angular, Cloud/AWS , theme and module development, module updates  ·     Optimize application for maximum speed and scalability  ·     Agile (e.g. SCRUM), iterative, and Waterfall software development certifications and/or equivalent experience  ·     Collaborate with other team members and stakeholders  ·     Excellent interpersonal relations and demonstrated ability to work with others effectively in teams.    ·     Expertise in HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and responsive design principles using (W3C) & WCAG 2.0 policies and best practices  ·     Review app and feature coding and plan future website upgrades with the development team  ·     Proficient understanding of cross-browser compatibility issues and ways to work around such issues. Web Developer Great West Life Assurance Company - Toronto, ON September 2016 to August 2017 Web developer at Great West Life Insurance Co. web sites revamp projects.  Accomplishments  ? Responsible for implementing visual and interactive elements that users engage with through their web browser when using a web application.  ? Through understanding of the Software Development Lifecycle (e.g. Requirements, Design, Development, Testing) and exposure to Agile or iterative SDLCs.  ? Excellent interpersonal relations and demonstrated ability to work with others effectively in teams.  ? Develop sites and applications in wordpress and AEM 6. Web Developer Deloitte - Toronto, ON March 2016 to August 2016 Working with University of Ottawa Drupal team on migration and integration project.  Accomplishments  ? Developing module to integrate with the existing applications to migrate the content from legacy to new production environment.  ? Creating the migration script for the seamless automated operation.  ? Good understanding of Drupal APIs and hooks.  ? Excellent understanding of Vagrant and Aiger multisite built environment.  ? Architect enterprise Drupal solutions including data, display, and information architecture Software Developer Decision Resources Group - Toronto, ON May 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities  Developing healthcare platform. Responsible for architectural decisions and implementations.     Accomplishments  Excellent team collaboration development using scrum and agile methodologies.  Write all clean object-oriented PHP as well as efficient SQL.   Migration of platform from Kentico to Drupal CMS.  Implement frontend end according to wireframe develop on bootstarap responsive scaffolding.  Apache Solr and Drupal Integration.  Develop custom feed module, custom views and custom blocks.  Responsible for AODA standardization implementation on platform.  Excellent hands on experience with Drupal API and hooks.  Good knowledge Jenkins automated deployment on different environments (Dev, QA and Staging)  Writing simple test for different module.    Skills Used  PHP / Mysql / Javascript / AJAX / JSON / Bootstrap / MS SQL / solr server / Netbeans / Linux / JIRA / Agile / Scrum Web Developer Marketwired - Toronto, ON April 2014 to April 2015 Responsible for planning, designing and developing web sites, creating landing pages and maintaining news feeds at many websites like Yahoo, Twitter, BMO etc.  Accomplishments  ? Expert level understanding of front end development technologies  ? Designing for JSON and xml news feed  ? Strong experience with Responsive Design  ? Providing accurate timing estimates on work.  ? Lead the strategic optimization of digital marketing campaigns and build landing pages and responsive email.  ? Handling big cooperate clients issues related to the news feed and page templates.  ? Discussing technical solutions with clients and providing innovative new ideas to solutions.  ? Excellent knowledge of different wireframe selection to achieve optimum results in designing.  ? Develop email marketing campaigns.  ? Project leader AODA compliance almost achieve AA, working on AAA compliance.  ? Expert with cross browser compatibility (IE7+, Safari, FF, Chrome)  ? Excellent front end development tools knowledge Web Developer Outreach Media - Toronto, ON October 2013 to April 2014 Participating in a team-oriented environment responsible for planning, designing, developing, testing and maintaining web sites and web based applications using CSS, PHP, jQuery, JavaScript and HTML.    Accomplishments  ? Expert with client side technologies (HTML5, CSS3, JQuery).  ? Expert with cross browser compatibility (IE7+, Safari, FF, Chrome)  ? Strong experience with Responsive Design  ? Providing accurate timing estimates on work.  ? Contributing to documentation (instructional, pitch and technical specification)  ? Discussing technical solutions with clients and providing innovative new ideas to solutions. Web Developer SEO Toronto - Toronto, ON March 2013 to March 2014 Worked as part time Web Developer on many different Web Sites build from the scratch using wordpress, Joomla and Drupal.  Accomplishments  ? Develop the programming code, either from scratch or by adapting existing website software and graphics packages to meet business requirements used major content management systems with thorough understanding and experience.  ? Upload the site onto a server and register it with different search engines.  ? Ensure that all websites and internet properties under your influence have been technically optimized to attract and engage those visitors that closely match the agreed profile of the target audience. Web Developer I.T World Canada - Toronto, ON January 2013 to September 2013 Participate and select technical implementation platforms / frameworks- Participate in functional specification / architecture phases. Review Creative/UX/Strategy deliverables from a technical point of view.    Accomplishments  ? Developed Sales team API to get the Ad from big companies like IBM, Dell, D&H etc.  ? Develop heavy data driven sites using wordpress.  ? Worked on MySQL to convert the data issues in migration of MS SQL data to MySQL.  ? Strong proficiency with web technologies such as: LAMP, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript.  ? Interacting with project stakeholders to develop storyboards and UX workflows/prototypes.  ? Ensuring cross-browser compatibility across a variety of supported browsers.  ? Comfortable working with Git. Education Diploma in Web Development Trios College - Toronto, ON 2012 Master of Science in Electronics University of Karachi 1998 B.Sc. in Applied Physics University of Karachi 1996 Skills PHP/Mysql (5 years), Javascript / jQuery (5 years), HTML / CSS (5 years), MS SQL (5 years), AJAX (4 years), JASON (4 years), .NET (3 years), Angularjs (2 years), Bootstrap (4 years), LESS (2 years), Git (5 years), Confluence (5 years), Bitbucket (3 years), AEM (Less than 1 year), Wordpress (5 years), Drupal (3 years), Kentico (2 years), docker (2 years), Scrum (5 years), Linux (3 years), Eclipse (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages and Markups  ? PHP ? JavaScript ? HTML5  ? CSS3 ? HTML ? XHTML  ? C# ? Java    Frameworks and Libraries  ? ASP.NET ? Bootstrap ? Nodejs  ? jQuery ? Codeignitor ? Angular    DataBase and DataStorage    ? MySql ? MS SQL ? JSON    Operating System    ? MS Windows ? MAC OS ? Linux    Software    ? Adobe CS5 ? Visual Studio ? Eclipse    CMS    ? Wordpress ? Joomla ? Kentico    Marketing Automation Software    ? Sales Force ? Pardot ? Marketo    Web Sites  http://www.marketwired.com/  http://www.sysomos.com/  http://www.itworldcanada.com/  http://www.directioninformatique.com/  http://www.itbusiness.ca/  http://www.visability.ca/  http://www.outreachmedia.ca/  More than 50 sites I have developed during my professional career but not mentioning here for the privacy of the companies I worked with.    Project Manager, Al Borj Machinery  Jordan - March 2000- Jan 2011  Worked on Gerber software to train on functionality in the areas of: design, technical design, product development, merchandizing, manufacturing, sourcing, costing, and operations.    Accomplishments  ? Responsible for overseeing multiple projects through all phases of development, from initiation and planning to execution, to monitoring, control and closure.  ? Create, maintain and track project plans and schedules, cost estimates and problem logs throughout the life of the project.  ? Assemble and coordinate project staff  ? Conduct technical seminars across Middle East and North Africa region for the better usage of Gerber software products.