Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Elsyf Software Kissimmee, FL Work Experience Software Engineer Elsyf Software - Orlando, FL August 2014 to Present Current projects include a custom CRM / Inventory Management application and a native Android application.  ? CRM / Inventory Management software built in C#.NET using Microsoft Visual Studio.  ? CRM / Inventory Management software expected to be finished April 2015.  ? Android application built in Java with Android Studio.  ? iPhone applications built in Objective-C and Swift 3.0. Software Engineer OmniTicket Network - Orlando, FL March 2013 to August 2014 Develop Access Control solutions using Adobe's ColdFusion language running on Microsoft IIS.  ? Develop various applications for iPhone, iPod, and iPad devices using the XCode IDE and Objective-C language.  ? Configure, manage, and troubleshoot any issues with Subversion version control.  ? Work with IT department to confirm all code and upload procedures are in compliance with PCI restrictions.  ? Worked with a team of fellow developers to work through tough obstacles and meet deadlines.  ? Maintain healthy relationships will all clients and stakeholders. Owner / Developer Ardea Studios, LLC - Orlando, FL November 2011 to March 2013 Utilized multiple web languages to create complete online solutions.  ? Manage day-to-day business administration tasks ranging from accounting and paperwork to hiring and managing a contracted team of developers and designers.  ? Create and maintain healthy relationships with all clients, including but not limited to, providing support of products, providing training on products and answering any and all questions about said products. Junior Developer Paquin Healthcare Company - Celebration, FL February 2012 to August 2012 Utilized PHP, JavaScript, HTML, XML, Ajax and MVC to create online e-Commerce solutions.  ? Configure and manage GIT version control for development team.  ? Test and maintain all eCommerce websites and software.  ? Work with peers to determine realistic deadlines and report said deadlines and expectations to the Project Manager. Developer Team Lead Real Estate Industry Solutions - Orlando, FL September 2011 to February 2012 Manage day-to-day operations of Development Team overseeing 5 team members.  ? Assigned, coordinated and reviewed the work of the Development Team.  ? Developed and programmed software features using JavaScript and XML.  ? Managed and performed bug fixes and error reports. Developer Real Estate Industry Solutions - Orlando, FL October 2010 to September 2011 Design and program software for Real Estate firms and associations.  ? Test software for functionality.  ? Implement features into software.  ? Assign responsibilities to peers. System Administrator / SEO Consultant Brown Law P.L - Kissimmee, FL February 2011 to May 2011 Manage Active Directory.  ? Oversee ten end users.  ? Maintain company website and SEO.  ? Manage Google Ad Campaign. Education High school or equivalent Skills .net, Arduino, C#, Git, Html, Javascript, Php, Raspberry pi, Coldfusion, Css, jquery, Life cycle, Sql, Microsoft office, MYSQL, Android Links https://github.com/Veriara Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information * Dedicated to adhering to professional programming practices.  * Devoted to ensuring the highest quality of software.  * Committed to quality work and completion of all tasks and projects in a timely manner.  * Supports collaboration with peers and co-workers and thrives in a team setting.    SKILLS    ? Proficient in Microsoft Office Suite  ? Proficient in Adobe Life Cycle Suite  ? Proficient with multiple IDEs  ? C#.NET  ? SQL  ? JavaScript  ? jQuery  ? PHP  ? ColdFusion  ? HTML  ? CSS  ? GitHub/Git  ? Experience with Arduino / Raspberry Pi interfacing