Salesforce Admin/ Developer Salesforce Admin/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Admin/ Developer - Home Depot Atlanta, GA • Around 5+ years of IT experience and 3+ years in SalesForce.com CRM Platform as Salesforce Developer and Administrator.  • Experience in Automation - Workflow Management, Queues.  • Experience in SFDC Administration, Deployment, Reports, Dashboards, Data Management.  • Experience in creating the relationships junction objects and Security like Master-Child, lookups, Entity Relationship data model, Roles, Profiles and permission sets.  • Extensive work experience using Force.com Web services (Rest,Soap) for implementing web services in the application for access to data from different users.  • Extensive experience Creating Profiles, Page Layouts, workflow alerts and actions, Dynamic Visual force pages and Approval workflow.  • Created Workflow Rules to automate Tasks, Email Alerts, Field Updates, time-dependent actions and Outbound Messages  • Implemented security and sharing rules at Object, Field and Record level for different Users at different levels.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Well versed in migration and integration of CRM applications for large enterprise customers.  • Used Force.com Web services API for implementing web services to access data from different users.  • Extensive business knowledge and customization experience on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products and Price books, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Forecasting, Reports and Dashboards.  • Experience in exporting and importing data using import Wizard and Apex Data Loader.  • Experience in implementation & Integration experience on SalesForce.com using Apex Language (Classes, Controllers &Triggers), Visual force Pages, Custom Tabs, Custom Objects, Reports and Dashboards.  • Experience in wide range of languages and tools such APEX, Visualforce, HTML5, Javascript, Angular JS, CSS and jQuery.  • Experience in realizing the business requirements to design on SalesForce.com platform by designing the required entities like custom objects.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, requirement gathering, development, enhancements, testing, deployment and maintenance of enterprise applications.  • Experience with Agile software development practices and life cycle.  • Involved in using Lightning, Process Builder and Workflows.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of SQL Server 2008 database.  • Created tables, indexes and views.  • Created and Modified stored procedures, Packages, Functions in PL/SQL using TOAD  • Created Indexes to improve the overall system performance Work Experience Salesforce Admin/ Developer Home Depot - Atlanta, GA September 2018 to Present Project Description:  Home Depot is an home improvement supplies retailing company that sells tools, construction products, and services. Project involved implementing sales, support and integration of Siebel technology and Salesforce, communities  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering the requirements from business administrators to have a clear understanding about the accurate project requirements and understand the business requirements.  • Used to Lightning Components access at the user, profile, Communities and organization level.  • Worked with various SalesForce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Cases, Reports and Dashboards.  • Used SOQL&SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Experienced in requirements gathering in Salesforce with Agile experience.  • Worked on Lookup Relationships and Master detail Relationships.  • Experienced in migrating the standard and custom objects in standard experience to lightning experience.  • Created Lightning Components added CSS and Design Parameters which improves performance.  • Experienced in creating Salesforce.com fields, page layouts, record types, searching, list views, etc.  • Created many Lightning Components and Lightning Quick Actions.  • Implemented Web-to-Case, Email-to-Case functionalities to provide a better customer support to the customers.  • Worked on Salesforce to Salesforce Connections.  • Developed complex workflows and approval processes for automating business logic.  • Written Apex Classes, Test Classes, Batch Apex Classes and Apex Triggers in the application for various Business/functional requirements.  • Worked on ANT Tool for Deployment process between the Orgs.  • Involved in querying Sales force tables using SOQL & SOSL using Force.com Explorer.  • Worked on Formula Fields for Report Metrics purpose.  • Developed and deployed Workflows and Approval processes for opportunities and products/ assets management.  • Worked on Case Milestones.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visual force.  • Worked on applying Validations on Lightning Actions and Fields.  • Involved in Setting up of reminder emails and triggers.  • Developed SFDC Customized Reports, Dashboards and Processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity.  • Worked closely with Business Users to enabled business process using SFDC.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Involved in using Lightning, Process Builder and Workflows. Worked on customization of visual force to have Lightning Experience for desktop and mobile applications.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Lightning Components, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Email Services, Escalation rules, ANT Tool. Salesforce Admin/ Developer Hogan Lovells - McLean, VA September 2017 to August 2018 Project Description:  Hogan Lovells is a company that provided financial services and related solutions to financial institutions, Project involved implementing sales, support and integration of suppliers, inventory, orders into Salesforce, worked on partner portal and customer portal.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering the requirements from business administrators to have a clear understanding about the accurate project requirements and understand the business requirements.  • Used to Lightning Components access at the user, profile, and organization level.  • Worked with various SalesForce.om objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports and Dashboards.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, delete and bulk or export of data from Salesforce.com SObjects.  • Used SOQL&SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Experienced in requirements gathering in Salesforce with Agile experience.  • Experienced in migrating the standard and custom objects in standard experience to lightning experience.  • Created Lightning Components added CSS and Design Parameters which improves performance  • Created many Lightning Components and server-side controllers to meet the business requirements.  • Imported & created data from excel sheets into Leads, Accounts, Contacts and Opportunities using Data Loader and Import Wizard and scheduling tools to automate bulk data loading.  • Implemented Web-to-Case, Email-to-Case functionalities to provide a better customer support to the customers.  • Developed complex workflows and approval processes for automating business logic.  • Written Apex Classes, Controller, Extension Controllers and Apex Triggers in the application for various Business/functional requirements.  • Developed Custom Objects, Custom Reports and configured the Analytic Snapshots to dump the data on regular basis for the sales performance and lead generation statistics.  • Involved in querying Sales force tables using SOQL & SOSL using Force.com Explorer.  • Developed and deployed Workflows and Approval processes for opportunities and products/ assets management.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visual force.  • Involved in Setting up of reminder emails and triggers.  • Developed SFDC Customized Reports, Dashboards and Processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity.  • Worked closely with Business Users to enabled business process using SFDC.  • Data migration from legacy system to Sales force using Data Loader and CSV.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Involved in using Lightning, Process Builder and Workflows. Worked on customization of visual force to have Lightning Experience for desktop and mobile applications.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Email Services, Escalation rules, Data Loader & Import Wizard. Salesforce Admin/ Developer Asurion - Columbia, MD March 2017 to August 2017 Project Description:  Asurion is an insurance company which had designed CRM application which will maintain the insurance information of the user accounts and the system is integrated with multiple applications for generating leads and for other data.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked on Accounts, Opportunities, Quotes, and Orders and implemented the logic based on the business needs.  • Created Page layouts, Record Types, Profiles, Roles, Permission settings, Users, and Sharing settings.  • Developed field & page layout customization for the standard objects like Account, contact, Leads.  • Maintained and gave permissions to communication templates based on Profiles.  • Created Reports and Dashboards as per the customer requirements.  • Worked on Record Types, Validation Rules and Page Layouts.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Opportunities, Quotes, Activities, Dashboards and Reports.  • Created new custom objects, assigned fields, custom tabs, components, custom reports.  • Effectively created the pick lists, dependent pick lists and junction objects to establish the connectivity among objects.  • Developed Apex Classes, Visual force pages and Apex Triggers to develop the custom functionality as per the requirements.  • Involved in data migration from Excel to Salesforce using Apex Data Loader.  • Involved in End User Training for every time there is a new release to the salesforce.  • Documented the entire process starting from Requirement document to end user training document  • Run analysis on Salesforce.com Customer data sets (Leads and Contacts) to map out de duplication efforts.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Email Services, Data Loader & Import Wizard, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Tabs, page layouts. Salesforce Admin/ Developer Freddie Mac - Tysons Corner, VA June 2016 to February 2017 Project Description:  This project was on Salesforce CRM to fulfill their business needs in customer Service, Sales and Marketing. Sales force CRM call center was deployed for customer and operational support users in the field. Sales force CRM made it easy to develop unique customer case its own set of rules for escalations, notifications and approvals.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Good Knowledge in administration and have implemented security and sharing Rules at object, field, and record level for different users at various levels of organization.  • Knowledge in Development activities like developing Apex Classes, test classes, Visual force Pages, controllers &, Triggers.  • Worked efficiently with standard Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Cases and Opportunities.  • Created various workflow rules, profiles and permission sets based on the organizational hierarchy requirements.  • Configured Picklist Fields, Master-Detail Fields, Custom Formula Fields, and defined Field Dependencies for custom picklist fields.  • Created reports and Designed Dashboards.  • Developed Visualforce pages, Apex Triggers, Apex Classes, Test classes and Workflows.  • Hands on experience in using Data loader and data import wizard for data management in force.com platform.  • Ability to write SOQL, SOSL queries across multiple objects within the SFDC database.  • Knowledge in Java/J2EE, Oracle, and SQL.  • Developed and configured various Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Created custom Dashboards for manager's home page and gave accessibility to dashboards for authorized people.  • Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of Salesforce.com.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.    Environment: CRM, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Java/J2EE, Oracle, and SQL, SOQL, SOSL, Salesforce.com, page layouts. Software Engineer Wipro Technologies - IN August 2014 to December 2015 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of SQL Server 2008 database.  • Reviewing Requirements and Detailed Design Documents (DDD).  • Involved in analysis, design, and development and testing of different modules.  • Created tables, indexes and views.  • Created and Modified stored procedures, Packages, Functions in PL/SQL using TOAD  • Managing tables, indexes, constraints, views sequences, synonyms and stored program units.  • Extensively used complex SQL queries (Sub-queries and correlated sub-queries).  • Created Indexes to improve the overall system performance.  • Involved in tuning the SQL queries for performance improvement.  • Created synonyms to maintain the security to give access to specific users. QA Tester Excel Soft Technologies - IN January 2014 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Analysis, Requirement reviews, creating detailed specifications with Use Cases and User Scenarios.  • Involved in working with Business Analysts, Programmers and Business users through the project life cycle.  • Prepared Test estimation and Test metrics documents using MS Excel.  • Developed and executed comprehensive system test plans and scripts.  • Created manual test cases and test suites for different modules of the application.  • Detected, reported and classified bugs in Quality Center/ALM.  • Used Quality Center/ALM for managing test execution and defect tracking of all issues.  • Wrote SQL queries to perform back end testing.  • Used the Descriptive Programming approach for developing test scripts using QTP/UFT.  • Worked with various functional and regression test using QTP/UFT.  • Designed and Generated Reusable Test Scripts using QTP/UFT; designed the Reusable Action for each Screen of the Application.  • Created reusable functions in VB scripts using QTP/UFT and through active screens created Shared object repository for the entire test set to test most of the Web modules.  • Responsible for preparing the user documentation and helping the users in UAT.  • Participated in weekly status meetings.  • Created test Status report and Test Completion Report for feature testing.    Environment: HP ALM, QTP/UFT, Soap UI, MS Excel, Java, HTML, Agile, MS Office, UNIX, Oracle, SQL Server, Windows. Education Master's in Computer in Computer Virginia International University - Fairfax, VA 2016 to 2017 Bachelor's Computer Science Engineering in Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh 2010 to 2014 Skills Database, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Force.com, Salesforce.com, Apex, Api, Exchange, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Metadata, Xml, Eclipse, Java, Java technologies Links http://SalesForce.com Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Salesforce API tools.  • App Exchange Data Loader, Force.com Explorer, Change Set, Force.com Excel Connector, Force.com IDE, Workbench, SOQL Explorer and Force.com Migration Tool(ANT), Github, Jenkins, Metadata API. Salesforce.com Development.  • Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Test Classes, Apex Custom Controllers and Extension, Visual force (Pages, Components & Controllers), Validation Rules, Work Flows, Dashboards, Reports, Custom Objects, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Apex Web Services, Apex Explorer, Sandbox Development and testing, Apex Data Loader, SOQL, SOSL, Ajax Tool Kit.  • Salesforce Integration Tools  • Data Loader  • Languages Ápex, Java, SQL Database MYSQL, Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g, SQL Server Web HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, SOAP Web Services, REST Web Services and WSDL Platforms Windows NT/2000/XP Pro/Vista/7, 8,10 Java Technologies Java, JSP, JavaScript, JSON