Salesforce Developer/Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Administrator Salesforce Developer/Administrator - CLEAResult • Around 7+ years of IT experience of SDLC - Software Development Life Cycle which contains designing, development, implementation, requirement gathering, requirement analysis & enhancement of projects in SalesForce.com and Java technologies.  • Technical Knowledge about SLDS - Software Development Life Cycle, Salesforce Lightning, Process builder, App builder and Lightning components.  • Developed Lightning components, Apps and Lightning pages using JavaScript and Aura framework.  • Experience in working across various SFDC performance like Service Cloud & App-exchange applications.  • Experienced on force.com platform also using Apex Classes and Triggers, Web service API, Service Cloud, Force.com IDE, Validation rules, SOQL and SOSL under observation of Client-specific solutions.  • Extensive experience in developing and deploying Custom Integration Solutions in Salesforce.com CRM.  • Developed, deployed and integrated Salesforce.com CRM.  • Familiarized with CRM processes like Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Customer Support, Business Processes and recommended solutions to improve their processes using SFDC.  • Mostly experienced in using Email Services, Workflow Alerts and Actions, Approval Process, Sharing rules and Security, User profiles, Role hierarchy, Password policies, Page Layouts, Roles and Profiles in Salesforce.com.  • Good understanding in creating Test case generation, Test case execution, Test plan, Regression testing and Black box testing.  • Utilization between Production and Sandboxes using Eclipse, Force.com Migration Tool and Change set.  • Significantly used tools for Data Import\Export - Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard, SFDC Data Export and Others 3rd party Tools.  • Familiar in sandbox and production environments including creating Sandboxes and refreshing it time to time.  • Good understanding of Salesforce Setup Menu, Configuration, Custom Application development, administration and deployment of applications to Force.com platform.  • Constructed Object/Tab/Field, Formula, Record Types, Folder Management, Activity Management, Queues, Groups and Analytical Snapshots in Salesforce.com.  • Generated Reports, Dashboards, customized reports and analyzed the data.  • Experienced in Database Design, Functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries  • Capable of rapidly learning new technologies and successfully applying them to projects and operations. Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Administrator CLEAResult - Boston, MA February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created custom controllers implementing complex code for retrieval from Sales Force to Visual Force pages.  • Defined Lookup and Master-Detail relationships on the standard and custom objects.  • Created user Roles and Profiles, Security Controls and Sharing Settings.  • Developed Workflow Rules, Process Builder, Flow, Time Triggered workflows for various business requirements.  • Supported the data migration activities for migration the data from various business centers users using Apex Data Loader with night schedule.  • Used Force.com IDE for development of Triggers and debugging, analyzing logs, Visual Force Pages and Apex classes.  • Managed users, hierarchical roles, profiles, security controls and territory management.  • Designed, implemented and developed the Custom Objects, Page Layouts, Custom Tabs, and Components to suit to the needs of the application.  • Implemented Pick Lists, Dependent Pick Lists, Lookup, Junction Objects, Master-Detail Relationships, Validation, and Formula Fields to the custom objects.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards) and setup report folders to authenticate users based on their profiles (permissions)  • Implemented Approval Processes to ensure proper authorization in the high-stakes environment of capital management.  • Created Visualforce pages with responsive design using company CSS and Java Script with the help of jQuery and static resources.  • Experienced document generation & reporting. Create & deliver documents, presentations & reports in Word, PowerPoint, Excel, HTML email & PDF from any standard/custom object.  • Used Field-level Security and Profiles to ensure that protected data is only shared with authorized persons in the hierarchy  • Integrating the application with SOAP Web services and also Informatica Web services.  • Designed and developer complex integration using integrations using bulk API, SOAP and REST API - Both Web Service Callouts and Publishing custom web Services and Apex Data Loader.  • Developing of API calls and webservices for the integration applications using (RESTful API)  • Used SOQL and SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Used the Sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visual Force Pages, Salesforce.com Data Loader, REST/SOAP API Web Services, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, HTML, Java Script, Java, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer/Administrator CVS Health - Woonsocket, RI April 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Experience in Apex Classes, Controllers & Triggers considering governor limits and various other components as per the client and application requirements.  • Expert in Service cloud implementation.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules on the objects and tabs, Components and Visual Force Pages.  • Worked with various salesforce.com standard objects like Cases, Accounts, Contacts, Assets and Products.  • Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Validation rules for Leads.  • Created Custom fields, pick lists, dependent pick lists, and validation formulas to the custom objects.  • Configured workflow rules, time triggered workflows, email templates resulting into effective web to lead communication with customers and partners.  • Extended standard native Force.com functionality using Visual force, Apex, AJAX, jQuery and Web services.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Worked on Email handling requirements for assigning the leads to Agents.  • Used Dashboards and reports to show the performance of the offices and also time taken to assign Leads.  • Been a part of Unit testing and guided my offshore Developers.  • Involved in the entire SDLC using agile methodologies and Understanding of complex SQL's.  • Developed custom objects and custom tabs for various modules of applications.  • Written numerous SOQL and SOSL queries using Force.com explorer.  • Prepared various test cases to test the functionality of the code in accordance to the governor's limits.    Environment: Apex, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce Enterprise Edition, S-controls, Data Loader, HTML, Unit testing, Import Wizard, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Escalation rules, Security controls, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, chatter, Force.com Eclipse plug in, Eclipse. Salesforce.com Developer FedEx - Dallas, TX November 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:    • Interacted with business users/analyst and prepared technical design documents based out of the requirements.  • Followed Agile Scrum methodology that included iterative application development, weekly Sprints and stand up meetings.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application and Used BitBucket for code repository.  • Worked in converting existing Application to force.com applications and used the Debug Log and System Log Console to catch exceptions.  • Created Formula Fields, Validation Rules, Workflow and approvals for the flexibility and functionality of force platform application.  • Integrated external applications with Salesforce.com both Inbound and Outbound by writing Apex SOAP and REST Web Services and Apex Callouts.  • Developed various Batch Apex classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable classes on hourly basis.  • Performed UAT cleanup using some scripts and Data Loader.  • Integrated PokitDok with Salesforce instance through DataPower by making Asynchronous Calls using REST API.  • Worked with Salesforce Process Builder and consolidated existing workflow rules with process builder.  • Used Apex Data Loader mapped data sources and loaded data into Call Center application.  • Performed Salesforce.com configuration activities creating Users, Roles, Profiles, Organization Wide Defaults, Permission Sets, Public Groups and Queues  • Used Debugger making use of Breakpoints to monitor data movement and troubleshoot the mappings  • Written several SOQL& SOSL queries in the apex coding with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application.  • Performed unit testing for every written code and always wrote test methods with code coverage of 75% minimum.  • Migrated code from Sandbox to QA and QA to Production using cascade tool.  • Used JIRA Agile for project management and bug tracking.    Environment: Salesforce Unlimited Edition, Apex, Visualforce Pages, BitBucket, JIRA, Eclipse IDE, Dream Factory Utilities (Cascade), Workbench, DataLoader, SOAP, WSDL, REST, PokitDok, Process Builder, JIRA, Workflow, Health Cloud. Software Developer Aspire Software Solutions June 2012 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture.  • Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces.  • Deployed the applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Created and implemented Oracle stored procedures, functions, triggers, using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Used IBM RAD 6.0 for writing code for JSP 2, Servlets 2.4, Struts 1.1 and EJBs 2.1.  • Involved in analysis, design and development of a funds transfer system as well as account summary system and developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Used CVS for version control across common source code used by developers.  • Used Log4j to create logs of the application's flow of control.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs 2.  • These POJOs are serialized Java Classes that would not have the business processes.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service Locator, Data Access Object, Singleton, Factory and Layer Super type.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  Environments: HTML, DHMTL, XML, Java, J2EE, JSP 2, JNDI, EJB 2.1, JMS, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, Hibernate3.0, IBM RAD 6.0, IBM Web Sphere Application Server 6.0, LOG4J, Servlets 2.4, Struts 1.1. Education Master's in Computer Science University of Massachusetts - Boston, MA Bachelor's in Computer Science Institute of Technology Nirma University Skills HTML (5 years), JAVA (4 years), APEX (3 years), ECLIPSE (3 years), FORCE.COM (3 years) Additional Information Skills:    Salesforce Technologies  Visualforce Components, Custom Objects, Triggers, Salesforce CRM, Custom Metadata, SOQL, Salesforce SFA, Visualforce Components, SOSL, Apex Language, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Apex Classes, Apex Controllers, Visualforce Pages, Apex Controllers, Web Services (REST and SOAP)    Languages Apex, C, C++, XML, PHP, Java Script, DHTML, Java, SQL, Python, XHTML, HTML.  Tools  Workbench, JIRA, Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, TFS, Force.com Explorer, Visio 5.0, Change Set, Force.com Data Loader, MS Office, AngularJS, Force.com Excel Connector, SQL Query Analyzer, Angular 4, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, NetBeans, Raspberry PI.    Database DB2, Java DB, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, Force.com DB MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server 2000/2005/ 2008    Operating Systems Mac, Linux, Windows 7/8/10, Unix  Web Applications REST, WSDL, SOAP