Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Carrollton, VA Passionate and detailed software developer with a decade of experience and a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science. Developed dozens of rich UI web enterprise applications in highly collaborative agile team environments. Experienced in every step of the SDLC from helping customers decide on the UI using mock ups to doing code maintenance. Including coding UI front ends, developing a 3 tier code base and mentoring junior developers with code reviews and training programs. Proud veteran of the Coast Guard Reserves. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Coast Guard Aviation Logistics Center - Elizabeth City, NC April 2012 to Present Currently working at home remotely on the Coast Guard's Electronic Asset Logbook. This web application plans and tracks the Coast Guard's missions, maintenance, fleet status, and training.   • Create new application modules in ASP.NET using C# in the MVC framework using RESTful APIs.  • Design rich UI front ends using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery with AJAX updated partial views .  • Make robust 3 tier code bases in C# following object oriented programming principles and best practices.  • Create database procedures, tables, indexes, and constraints.  • Add new functionality to existing web modules and debug issues.  • Mentor junior members in best practices and develop training materials. Database Administrator Coast Guard Finance Center - Chesapeake, VA August 2011 to April 2012 Worked on databases for the Coast Guard's Pay and Personnel Center which utilized them for payroll and payment reconciliation with the US Treasury.  • Maintained and optimized Oracle databases in a 24/7 high availability environment.  • Created database objects including user accounts, profiles, tables, tablespaces, indexes and triggers.  • Wrote Linux shell scripts and database PL/SQL procedures for tuning, index rebuilding, statistics gathering, user control, auditing and database security.  • Performed data dictionary maintenance and database cloning, refresh, backup and restores.  • Troubleshot database and application performance issues.  • Developed workflows for Configuration Management documentation. Software Developer Coast Guard Training Quota Center - Chesapeake, VA December 2009 to August 2011 Researched their manual workflows to develop custom software solutions to automate repetitive tasks.  • Developed custom software using Visual Basic for Applications(VBA) to automate repetitive tasks.  • Software would automatically gather data from various web applications then save and email the resulting reports.  • Created Microsoft Access databases to track training programs.  • Gave presentations at headquarters on how the Coast Guards training metrics could be improved. Software Engineer Intern MTCSC - Stafford, VA August 2009 to December 2009 Customized the company's SharePoint intranet site using Silverlight and JavaScript.  • Wrote scripts to pull data from Microsoft SQL databases and display it in SharePoint Web pages.  • Highly customized SharePoint workflows using JavaScript, C# and SharePoint Designer.  • Customized SharePoint's look by creating HTML cover pages and linking them to SharePoint services.  • Made custom web applications using Silverlight and embedded them in SharePoint.  • Used SharePoint web services to populate data into other systems. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Millersville University - Millersville, PA December 2009 Skills ASP (5 years), ASP.NET (5 years), C# (5 years), HTML (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), MVC (5 years), Linux (8 years), Unix (8 years), Microsoft SQL (Less than 1 year), Ingres (5 years), Oracle (1 year), Windows (10+ years), Java (2 years), Microsoft Access (2 years), jQuery (5 years), Visual Studio (5 years), SQL Server Management Studio (Less than 1 year), Agile (5 years), SCRUM (5 years), LINQ (5 years), Automated UI Testing Tools (5 years), VBA (3 years), Subversion (5 years), Git (5 years), HTML 5, CSS (10+ years) Military Service Branch: Coast Guard Service Country: United States Rank: E6 July 2002 to January 2016 Reserves Additional Information Technical Skills  Web Technologies: ASP.NET, MVC, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, XML, CSS  Languages: C#, C++, LINQ , Java, Visual Basic, Perl  Databases: SQL Server , Oracle, Ingres, Microsoft Access  Operating Systems/ Web Frameworks: Windows, Linux, SharePoint  Version Control: Subversion, GIT