Senior DataStage Developer Senior DataStage <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior DataStage Developer - Nassau Re (Formerly Phoenix Life Insurance) Manchester, CT • Having 7+ years of IT industry experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing.  • Implementation and Support of Data Warehouses, Database Technologies using Extraction Transformation and Load (ETL) tools like IBM Web Sphere DataStage 7.5/9.1.  • Worked on DataStage tools like DataStage Designer, DataStage Director and DataStage Administrator.  • Strong understanding of the principles of Data Warehousing using fact tables, dimension tables and star/snowflake schema modeling.  • Worked extensively with Dimensional modeling, Data migration, Data cleansing, ETL Processes for data warehouses.  • Developed parallel jobs using different processing stages like Transformer, Aggregator, Lookup, Join, Sort, Copy, remove duplicates, remove duplicates, Modify, Merge, Funnel, CDC Change Apply and Filter.  • Experienced in integration of various data sources (DB2-UDB, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Flat File or Mainframe files and MS-Access) into data staging area.  • Experience in analyzing the data generated by the business process, source to target mapping of the data elements, creating Indexes and Aggregate tables for the data warehouse design and development.  • Experienced in scheduling Sequence and parallel jobs using DataStage Director, UNIX scripts and scheduling tools.  • Experience in troubleshooting of jobs and addressing production issues like data issues, ENV issues, performance tuning and enhancements.  • Assisted in development efforts for Data marts and Reporting.  • Expertise in UNIX shell scripts using K-shell for the automation of processes of scheduling the Data Stage jobs using wrappers and clearing the log file for a name pattern of jobs.  • Extensive experience in Unit Testing, Functional Testing, System Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Performance Testing.  • Proven track record in troubleshooting of Data Stage jobs and addressing production issues like performance tuning and enhancement.  • Expert in working on various operating systems like UNIX AIX 7.1/5.1, Windows 2000/NT.  • Proficient in creating Stored procedures using cursors, appropriate return codes to facilitate the reporting layer.  • Experience in using software configuration management tools like MS Visual SourceSafe for version control.  • Expert in unit testing, system integration testing, implementation and maintenance of databases jobs.  • Effective in cross-functional and global environments to manage multiple tasks and assignments concurrently with effective communication skills.  • An excellent team member with  ? An ability to perform individually as well as ability to work in-group  ? Excellent problem solving with good analytical and programming skills  ? Good time management skills and strong communication skills  ? Hard working and high level of motivation.  ? Quick learner and initiative to learn new technology and tools quickly.    Tools and Technologies  • IBM DataStage 7.5/9.1/11.5  • Informatica Cloud • SQL, Unix  • Cognos • Tableau  • DB2 10.5 and Stored Procedures • Ultraedit, Putty    Accomplishments in Past Year  • Lead team to redesigned ETL Batch applications improve server performance  • Lead team to redesign the data warehouse to ease up the reporting and downstream applications. Work Experience Senior DataStage Developer Nassau Re (Formerly Phoenix Life Insurance) December 2014 to Present 1. EDW - Enterprise Data Warehouse and AMP - Actuarial Modernization Project (December 2014 - Present):    Client: Nassau Re (Formerly Phoenix Life Insurance)  Role: Senior DataStage Developer  Team Size: 12  Technology Stack: InfoSphere Information Server Version 9.1 (Designer, Director, Administrator), DB2, Stored Procedures, Unix, Informatica cloud, Cognos, ESP Scheduler, Windows    Enterprise Data Warehouse project is to restructure the legacy Phoenix Operational and Analytical data which was spread across the organization's data landscape to create an enterprise data warehouse platform to decrease complexity, improve the quality of data, mitigate risk, reduce resource support costs, and develop flexibility for Enterprise functions.  • Gathers requirement from Business users and provide solution.  • Achieving the solution by minimizing documentations, eliminating BA/SA/QA users.  • Research & design, gathers data and once approved, harden the solution.  • Develop outbound from Data warehouse for the business and actuarial teams.  • Currently in EDW phase 2 and AMP phase 4. Successful deliveries of earlier phases.    Roles and responsibilities    • Provided Technical support to other teams as the Data warehouse SME.  • Solutioning and delivering new enhancements, production defect fixes coordinating with BA, SA, Developers, QA, business users & Operations.  • Solutioning business requirement into Technical specifications.  • Optimization of jobs to make reduce the dependency and the to avail the business data faster.  • Assisted Mapping team to transform the business requirements into ETL specific mapping rules.  • Performs reviews and testing of code built by offshore team.  • Designing Data masking techniques to mask sensitive information when working with offshore  • Estimate work efforts, Organize weekly meetings of Development team with QA and SA.  • Documented ETL test plans, test cases, test scripts, and validations based on design specifications for unit testing, system testing, functional testing, prepared test data for testing, error handling and analysis.  • Maintained Data Warehouse by loading dimensions and facts as part of project. Also worked for different enhancements in FACT tables.  • Designed Mappings between sources to operational staging targets, using Star Schema, implemented logic for Loading the Historical data into the Warehouse using Slowly Changing Dimensions (SCD).  • Created shell script to run data stage jobs from UNIX and then schedule this script to run data stage jobs through scheduling tool. Senior DataStage/ETL Developer CSC - Hartford, CT August 2011 to Present Team Size: 12    Working as a senior developer at a Life and Annuity Insurance Company at Hartford. Providing solutioning for 2 teams, Enterprise Data Warehouse and ETL maintenance. I have gained expertise in designing, building and maintenance of data warehouse and its applications with a good exposure to Life and Annuity insurance. Senior DataStage Developer Nassau Re (Formerly Phoenix Life Insurance) April 2014 to November 2014 2. Upgrade of IBM WebSphere DataStage Version 7.5 to InfoSphere Information Server Version 9.1 - April 2014 to November 2014    Client: Nassau Re (Formerly Phoenix Life Insurance)  Role: Senior DataStage Developer  Team size:6  Technology Stack: InfoSphere Information Server Version 9.1 (Designer, Director, Administrator), DB2, Stored Procedures, Unix, Informatica cloud, Cognos, ESP Scheduler, Windows, MS access, IBM Connector Migration Tool 9.1    Roles and responsibilities  • Regression testing and shake out testing for the existing design in the existing environment.  • Migration of the current jobs using Connector Migration Tool.  • Remapping the shared containers, defect fixing on the post upgrade regression testing.  • Fixing defects and modifying the existing code to match the pre-upgrade production copies.  • Produce report of the migrated jobs and review for changes.  • Created and implemented DataStage routines.  • Performed performance tuning of the jobs by interpreting performance statistics of the jobs developed.  • Performed debugging on these jobs using Peek stage by outputting the data to Job Log or a stage.  • Documented ETL test plans, test cases, test scripts, and validations based on design specifications for unit testing, system testing, functional testing, prepared test data for testing, error handling and analysis. Senior Software engineer Nassau Re (Formerly Phoenix Life Insurance) July 2013 to March 2014 Role: Senior Software engineer  Team size:6  Technology Stack: InfoSphere Information Server Version 9.1 (Designer, Director, Administrator), DB2, Stored Procedures, Unix, Informatica cloud, Cognos, ESP Scheduler, Windows, MS access,    Distribution Relationship management was a project was to have a reporting database extracted from the data warehouse, which is more scalable and with High performance solutioning the front end of Web through stored procedures.    Roles and responsibilities  • Designed and developed mappings between sources and operational staging targets, using Star and Snow Flake Schemas.  • Provided data models and data maps (extract, transform and load analysis) of the data marts for systems in the aggregation effort.  • Involved in Extracting, cleansing, transforming, integrating and loading data into data warehouse using DataStage Designer.  • Design maintainable and extensible Stored procedures using input/output parameters, cursors, views, triggers and complex queries using temp tables and joins.  • Design server level queries to automate the process of job name pattern wise deletion of Logs.  • Converted complex job designs to different job segments and executed through job sequencer for better performance and easy maintenance.  • Created shell script to run data stage jobs from UNIX and then schedule this script to run data stage jobs through scheduling tool.  • Documented ETL test plans, test cases, test scripts, and validations based on design specifications for unit testing, system testing, functional testing, prepared test data for testing, error handling and analysis.  • Participated in weekly status meetings.  • Overseeing daily activities, coordinating tasks and mentoring new trainees. Software Engineer Nassau Re (Formerly Phoenix Life Insurance) January 2012 to June 2013 Team Size: 6  Technology Stack: InfoSphere Information Server Version 9.1 (Designer, Director, Administrator), DB2, Stored Procedures, Unix, Informatica cloud, Cognos, ESP Scheduler, Windows    ASD project was to convert the source admin systems which administers the Life and Annuity products to a new consolidated admin system and generate multiple outbound for the business.    Roles and responsibilities  • Assist the client to formulate solutions for their requirements using the Knowledge of data repository and the client customizations to it.  • Converting business solutions into technical specifications and implementing them.  • Participating in day to day activities/discussions/meetings with Onshore team.  • Loaded data into load, staging and lookup tables. Staging area was implemented using flat files.  • Responsible for version controlling and promoting code to higher environments.  • Creating local and shared containers to facilitate ease and reuse of jobs.  • Implemented the underlying logic for Slowly Changing Dimensions.  • Executed Pre-and Post-session commands on Source and Target database using Shell scripting.  • Involved in unit testing, systems testing, integrated testing and user acceptance testing. Associate Software Engineer John Hancock August 2011 to December 2011 Team size:6  Technology Stack: Business objects, MS Access, Cognos    PointIN to IIDM was the project to convert the internal product of Insurance to a newer internal Insurance DataMart.  Cognos dashboards for the reports which were created in Business Objects.    Roles and responsibilities    • Participated in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC (Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Documentation).  • Data-analysis skills and translate specifications into a working Report.  • Involved in end user training and documenting the procedures. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Acharya Institute of Technology 2011