Salesforce Developer/Admin Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin Salesforce Developer/Admin - NBC Universal New York, NY • 5+ years of experience in IT industry in SalesForce Customization, Security Access, creating profiles, roles, users, page layouts, and email services.  • Experienced in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Validation rules, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks and actions.  • Strong Knowledge of SFDC standard Data structures and familiarity with designing Custom Objects and Force.com platform and Force.com Sites.  • Experience in development, configuration, Implementation, and Support of sales force CRM, and Sales Force applications based on Apex Language and leveraging Force.com Platform world's first commercial Software as a Service (SAAS) application running in Cloud Computing Environment.  • Experience working with salesforce1 mobile application development and customizations.  • Strong Implementation and Integration experience using Custom objects, Triggers, workflows/ workflow rules, approvals, S-Controls, Visual Force Pages, and Apex classes  • Experience in Force.com Apex Classes, Apex triggers, Visual Force, Batch Apex, Integration, REST, SOAP based Web Services, Force.com API, SOQL and SOSL, Salesforce App Exchange and JAVA and C# on demand.  • Hands on experience implementing Role Hierarchies and Sharing Rules for system security design.  • Experience in working with Force.com Standard Objects Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Cases, Opportunities and Campaigns.  • Well versed with current releases of salesforce and hands on experience in new features such as lightening and Communities.  • Experience in Standard and Custom Controllers in Visual Force for development of custom visual force pages and components as required by business requirements.  • Used different data tools - Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard, SFDC Data Export, Mass Delete.  • Proficient in working with Eclipse IDE and Force.com Plug-in for writing business logic in Apex programming language.  • Experience in migrating data from various systems into Salesforce CRM using Data ETL tools - Informatica on Demand, Cast Iron, and Data Loader.  • Experience working across various SFDC implementations covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call center.  • Developed responsive Visualforce pages by using native components and HTML5 tags in the Visualforce pages. Written Visualforce pages to have look and feel same as Lightning.  • Experience in using the Workbench tool for SOQL queries, SOSL and the REST Explorer.  • Experience in using the Force.com Explorer to browse data model schema, custom objects, fields, build and test SOQL queries.  • Worked in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Interacted with Customers for requirements elicitation and created BRD for Salesforce.com implementations.  • Trained staff and executives to use the Salesforce application system.  • Proficiency in in developing Web based applications using C++, C#, Java, Java Script, .NET, XML, HTML, Microsoft Visual Studio, IIS Web Server, PHP, UNIX and PERL.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming involving Analysis and Design and Development of web based applications using Java technologies: HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, and J2EE. Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Admin NBC Universal August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Custom Objects, Custom reports and configured Analytical Snapshots to dump the data into on a regular basis for sales performance and lead generation statistics.  • Worked on various SFDC standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Reports and Dashboards.  • Implemented field level security, profiles and audit trail setup.  • Used eclipse Force.com toolkit for creating Apex Classes and Apex Triggers to develop custom logic and objects.  • Created the workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation, and alerts.  • Provided the training to the internal business users to use the application and develop their own custom reports.  • Customize the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Used Data Loader for Data Management in force.com platform.  • Helped in designing and developing Database migration scripts and execute migration plan to load data into Salesforce from Siebel using Informatics Salesforce Integration.  • Experience on Lightning component framework and also worked on Lightning app builder.  • Involved in creating Lighting pages inside Lightning community builder.  • Perform administration tasks as needed, managing custom fields, integration and data clean up.  • Worked extensively with Cast Iron and Web Services API with force.com to migrate data from the existing system.  • Extensive experience in data migration and integration using Data Loader.  • In-depth experience in CRM business process like Forecasting, Campaign Management, Lead Management, Pipeline Management, Order Management, Account Management, Case Management.  • Extensive experience in analyzing business requirements, entity relationships and converting to Salesforce custom objects, lookup relationships and Junction objects.  • Experience in integrating Salesforce with ERP applications like SAP using Informatics-On-Demand.  • Extensive experience in designing Custom Formula Fields, Field dependencies, Validation rules, Work Flows, and Approval Process for automated alerts, Field Updates and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Proficient in Salesforce platform tools like Validation Rules, Workflow Rules and actions, Escalation Rules, Assignment Rules, Approval Processes, Setting Advanced Security Model, Security Settings and controls, Creating Profiles, Roles, Email Services, designing and creating complex relationships, Page Layouts.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, force.com IDE, workflows and triggers, data loader, web services, custom and standard object, sharing rules, apex classes, test cases - unit testing, validation rules, formula fields, Lightning Framework. Salesforce Developer/Admin Comcast - San Jose, CA October 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Taken part in requirements grooming sessions with business users to document and develop enhancements to current org.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Time based workflow rules, approval processes, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, Process builder and validation rules.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Customized User Roles, Role hierarchies, Profiles and Sharing settings to ensure that the protected data is available only to the authorized users.  • Designed various Web Pages using lightning components for capturing various customer enquiries and Implemented logic for migrating cases to different queues based on the type of customer enquiry.  • Designed, and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, and extensions for various functional needs in the application.  • Implemented Batch Apex class to update the fields on the custom objects.  • Used SOQL and SOSL statements within custom controllers, extensions in consideration to Governor limits.  • Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages  • Implemented web based case management automation - Web to Case (on Case Object) to track and solve customer's issues.  • Installed Instant Service Chat and Email from the AppExchange to let agents click to create cases from chat and email.  • Tested apps by appending multiple components to a Lightning Application thereby deployed Applications from Sandbox to Production.  • Used Dataloader and salesforce workbench to insert, update, upsert data  • Wrote Test Plan and Test Case. Involved directly with Test Team and did bug fixing using Clear Quest.  • Developed Apex test utility classes and test methods and achieved 85-100% of code coverage across the organization by reducing test methods.  • Developed and configured various Reports, Dashboards and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Integrated REST API web service for extracting data from external systems.  • Debug Apex scripts using Debug Logs and System Log Console to catch Exceptions and execute Governor Limits.  • Deployed components using ANT Migration Tool and Change Sets  • Responsible for creating and maintaining the documentation of all the new releases and enhancements to production org.  Environment: Salesforce.com, Force.com, Apex Classes, Controllers, Triggers, Visual Force, Data Migration, SOQL, SOSL, Workflow & Approvals, Lightning Design system, Lightning Components, REST callouts, Service cloud, JavaScript, Email services. Salesforce Developer/Admin World Fuel Service - Miami, FL July 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Ensure service level availability of the SFDC platform and integration applications and provide on-call support for break/fix/enhancement activities (L1 & L2 Level support) to resolve application issues in PROD.  • Designed and developed Broadband based Application on Force.com Platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visual-Force pages as user interface.  • Gather requirements from client and take the ownership of project delivery  • Worked closely with Business System Analyst and Sales team to provided recommendation and designed the Best Solutions for implementing new business ideas.  • Followed Agile Development Methodology for the implementation.  • Worked as enhancement developer and team member, performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Provided development, implementation, and updating focusing on Sales cloud and Service cloud.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Quotes, Cases, Orders, Products, and Price books, Territories, Chatter, Reports and Dashboards.  • As an Administrator, implemented various advanced fields like Pick list Fields, Master-Detail Fields, Custom Formula Fields, and defined Field Dependencies for custom picklist fields.  • Created Page Layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Performed other administrative tasks such as managing Accounts, Contacts and Cases, setting workflows and approval process for approving new accounts and other business process.  • Created and maintained Reports and Dashboards to provide fast access to key business metrics.  • Experience in integrating with external systems using SOAP API, Rest API.  • Administered, configured, maintained Salesforce.com application user profiles, roles, assigning Permissions, generating security tokens, validation Rule, upgrade installation.  • Defined objects and Field Level Security for different profiles.  • Worked with integrating external systems using web services call outs.  • Wrote an Apex Trigger on Contact for cross object field update for reporting purposes.  • Enhanced Apex Class and Visual Force Page to create a custom Related List, showing activities for selected contacts or clients.  • Provided Case Management by Configuring Email-to-Case for end user to submit a case through Outlook.  • Customized Salesforce.com User Profiles by setting Standard and Custom objects layouts, Custom App, Field-level Security, Permission Sets for client services and marketing.  • Maintaining test coverage for all the classes and triggers and supporting deployment activities.  • Configured Chatter to track emails from Outlook to Salesforce by following a user.  • Responsible for weekly and monthly data export, updates, and backup for the organization.  • Used Apex data loader to Inset, Update, and Import data from Microsoft Excel into Salesforce.com.  • Created case escalation rules to escalate cases automatically if they are not resolved within a certain period of time.  • Implemented Service Cloud including: Service Console, Customer Portal & Communities, Case Feed, Knowledge Base and Entitlements.  Environment: Salesforce.com Platform, Force.com, Force.com Eclipse IDE, Apex classes and Controllers, HTML, CSS, Data Loader, WSDL, SOQL, SOSL, Scrum, Custom objects, Custom fields, Web Services. Salesforce.com Developer/Administrator Savant - Hyannis, MA April 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Performed the role of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Successfully developed the program plan within the estimated time, effort and quality goals.  • Participated on translating and documentation of business requirements into functional requirements.  • Customized Company Profile, Security & Access Controls and Communication Templates as per the organization requirements.  • Created custom objects, users, custom profiles, page layouts, and record types to meet business guidelines.  • Developed workflows, assignment rules, escalation rules, case teams, support settings, custom settings and other inbuilt functionality.  • Added, configured workflow rules, time triggered workflows, email templates resulting into effective web to lead communication with customers.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE with force.com platform for writing business logic in Apex Programming language.  • Created templates using CSS, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Developed cloud computing application using Force.com, Visualforce and Apex Languages.  • Proficient in creating Apex Triggers, Apex classes, Visual force Pages, App Exchange Package & Custom Application, Sandbox data loading and Web services API for implementing web services in the application for access to data from different users.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Managed and deployed Salesforce.com CRM solution to multiple departments within the organization.  • Implemented Salesforce.com web services client using Sales force web services API, Java, XML and partner WSDL.  • Exported data from legacy system and imported into SFDC through Apex data loader.  • Created detailed data mapping document for integrating various systems with Salesforce.com.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Worked on Analytical Snapshots for weekly trend reports.  • Demonstrated knowledge of XML, SQL, HTTP/HTTPS and EAS processes and understood the different SaaS development processes and methodologies.  • Worked with custom Reports and report generation.  • Involved in resolving issues found during Unit Testing& User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  Environment: Salesforce.com CRM, Force.com platform, Apex Classes, Chatter, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE, WSDL, Windows. Software Engineer Priority Technologies - IN June 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of the Project Life Cycle and also analysis of the system based on n-tier architecture.  • Followed Agile Methodology-Scrum with daily standup meetings to discuss about the tasks progress and blockers. And used JIRA to keep track of project issues, tasks and bugs.  • Designed, developed Web application using .NET Framework (C#, ASP.NET) for the user interface (UI) with SQL as database.  • Created an ASP.Net MVC UI that communicates with Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) to interact with the database.  • Involved in developing Web Service classes using SOAP to communicate with legacy systems and also deployed web services as per business requirement.  • Worked with MVC architecture application using Web API. And Built services through Web API.  • Developed web-centric applications using HTML and JavaScript as client side code and ASP.NET using C# to implement server side code.  • Extensively used XML for data passing between modules and applications.  • Involved in writing SSIS packages for loading data from the client DB to the local DB.  • Worked on SQL queries like stored procedures, Functions, Triggers to get the data from SQL Server and Oracle.  Environment: C#, .Net 4.0 Framework, ASP.Net, Visual Studio2008, Ajax, Visio, HTML, JavaScript, Web Services, bootstrap, XML, Unit Testing, SQL Reporting services, MS SQL Server 2008, SSIS. Skills C++, DTD, HTML, XML, XSLT, AJAX, DHTML, SECURITY, FORCE.COM, JDBC, APEX, ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, jQuery, JSP, RMI, UML, SHELL SCRIPTS, WORKFLOW