iOS Application Developer - Software Engineer iOS Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> - <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer iOS Application Developer - Software Engineer - GENERAL MOTORS Austin, TX Diligent professional with 6 Plus years of experience and a proven knowledge of iOS application development, Coding and programming. Aiming to leverage my skills to successfully fill the iOS Application Developer - Software Engineer role at your company. Work Experience iOS Application Developer - Software Engineer GENERAL MOTORS - Austin, TX May 2018 to Present Modify existing software and iOS applications to correct errors, allow it to adapt to new hardware, or to improve its performance.  ? Design, develop and modify iOS applications, integrating with various Databases and Client-Server applications for iPhone/iPad (IOS 4.0-11.2, XCode 4.0 - 10.1) applications development using Swift, Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, UIKit, Using MVVM Structure as well.  ? Develop and direct iOS applications pages for testing and validation procedures, programming, and documentation. iOS Application Developer American Airlines - Dallas, TX October 2016 to January 2018 Coordinate iOS Application Integration with existing server database and installation in Client devices. IOS Application Developer USA Grand Tours - Marietta, GA May 2015 to September 2016 Write, Update maintain Computer Programs, Software and IOS Applications to handle specific jobs such as tracking inventory, storing or retrieving data, or Controlling other equipment based on each other individual Client account needs. iOS Application Developer DSIG - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2013 to January 2015 Developed iPhone and iPad apps using Objective-C and exposed to full app development lifecycle till deployment.  ? Experienced in In-App Purchase, Facebook Graph API and Facebook SDK integration  ? Write, update, and maintain computer programs, Software and iOS applications to handle specific jobs such as tracking inventory, storing or retrieving data, or controlling other equipment based on each individual client account needs. Education M.S ( Software Engineering) in MIS Harrisburg University of Science and Technology - Harrisburg, PA June 2017 B.S. in ( Software Engineering) Information Technology Sastra University June 2013 Skills API, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, OBJECTIVE C, SWIFT Links https://github.com/shanthanreddy7