Software Development Mentor <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Mentor Sr. Application Developer Beaverton, OR Focused software developer with over six years of full stack application development experience. I have a passion for creating easy-to-digest interfaces, logical backends, and using my background in Geography to integrate maps and spatial analysis with web applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Development Mentor Trilogy Education Services - Portland, OR May 2019 to Present I teach principals of JavaScript, Ruby, SQL and full stack application development to burgeoning developers. I foster an environment of growth and curiosity while reinforcing good habits. Sr. Application Developer MTN Retail Advisors - Salt Lake City, UT March 2018 to Present I handle the full stack operations of the company application portal, which involves maintenance of MySQL databases and authentications, managing an API through a Spring Boot web server, and building, testing, debugging and distributing web applications built upon Angular 6. I am also responsible for a distributable Windows desktop application built on ReactJS and Electron which converts spreadsheets to spatial mapping layers and performs analysis. GIS Application Developer Newmark Grubb Acres - Salt Lake City, UT December 2012 to March 2018 I was responsible for both front and back-end application  development within the GIS department, particularly utilizing  HTML/Javascript/CSS client-side with ArcGIS Server, Python, and NodeJS deployments behind the scenes to create public and enterprise GIS applications. Consequently, I acted as an administrator of the geospatial server by handling login operations to applications, managing datasets, maintaining server performance, creating autonomous scheduled scripts, and much more. Education Certificate in Full Stack Application Development DevMountain - Salt Lake City, UT 2018 B.S. in GIS Weber State University - Ogden, UT 2012 A.S. in General Sciences Weber State University - Ogden, UT 2009 Skills Javascript (6 years), Python (3 years), Java (1 year), SQL (6 years), Angular (3 years), ReactJS (3 years), NodeJS (4 years), Arcgis (6 years), HTML 5 (6 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jordan-porter/