Sr.Java Developer Sr.Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Java Developer - Walmart, AR • 5 years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirement analysis, design and technical specification, code development, code integration, testing and deployment of Object Oriented Analysis and Design using Java/J2EE  • Strong experience in Core Java programming using Collections, Generics, Exception handling, multithreading.  • Extensive experience in programming with core Java, J2EE, JEE, Servlets, Java Server Pages, Java Beans, JDBC and MVC Architecture.  • Hands-on experience in developing applications using advanced Java technologies like JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JDBC, AngularJS, XML, Ajax, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, RESTful Web Service, Spring, Serialization and Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tools like Hibernate 3.x/4.x.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with XML and JSON based protocols such as SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RS and Spring-WS.  • Worked with Relational Database Management Systems including Oracle & SQL Server.  • Experience in writing SQL and PL/SQL scripts including Views, Cursors, and Procedures, Functions, Database Triggers and solid understanding of Database Management System.  • Worked with Version Control Systems like GIT, JIRA, SVN.  • Very good implementation knowledge and hands on SOAP (JAX-WS) and RESTful (JAX-RS) web services  • Experienced in performing operations on Linux and Unix operating systems  • Knowledge of using SOAP UI and browser extension Postman to test RESTful web services  • Good Knowledge on Spring Core, Spring Boot.  • Experience in Microservices & APIs using Spring Cloud, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Integration.  • Good understanding and knowledge on using JDBC and ORM tools like Hibernate, JPA  • Experience in dealing and analyzing with code involved in Multithreading  • Experience in writing functions and stored procedures using PLSQL  • Experience in using JDBC to connect to a database and perform operations  • Experience in using Ant and Maven tools to build the entire web application, and Log4J to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console  • Experience in creating models, views and controllers for the Single Page Applications [SPAs] using AngularJS  • Highly experienced in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes Amazon AWS Cloud Administration which includes services like: EC2, S3, IAM, ELASTIC BEANSTALK.  • Experienced in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that need to be stored in AWS S3  • Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, factory and service resources, routings and events.  • Excellent experience in software application development activities, design, coding, testing & maintenance  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills with expertise in design, analysis and debugging  • Exposure to NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and RDBMS. Work Experience Sr.Java Developer Walmart, AR September 2017 to Present EI Repl Services receives inventory from different third-party vendors. Process the inventory  data and store in Db for further process. Exposes different services to down stream system's.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed multi-tier , custom build workflow based web application.  • Implemented an adaptor which receives inventory data from Kafka engine processed by Message Bus .Message Bus was built using Spring Integration to dequeue inventory data from Kafka topics ,sends to different channels for parsing, enrichment, persisting into database    • Core Java with Concurrent API is used extensively for parallel processing and chunk processing  • Used Java 8 Lambda expressions and Stream API to support functional-style operations on streams of elements.  • Worked on Java functional programming concepts like Streams, Functional Interfaces, new date time API and lambda expressions.  • JProfiler is used to profile he application (Memory view and CPU view and Thread view are used )  • Used Angular router and implemented module wide routing and created different forms using Angular data driven and template driven forms.  • Developed Angular Components, Services, and Filters and took part in developing unit test and integration test cases using Jasmine, Karma.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Developed Micro services & APIs using Spring Cloud, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Integration.  • Design and implementation of different micro services and its Docker files.  • Created and maintained Docker images and Docker containers.  • Configuring the Docker containers and creating Docker files for different environments.  • Docker swam used for container orchestration  • Amazon IAM was used to maintain the user credentials and involved in creating custom IAM policies to various groups defined within the organization  • To send emails to users developed Java API to interact with the Amazon SQS and Amazon SNS.  • created Docker machine in Amazon EC2 instance and created Docker containers in Docker Machine running in Amazon EC2  • Spring JDBC used retrieve and update ,inserting data in oracle database with use of stored procs.  • JSON request/response from UI is processed using Spring Boot, Restful features with micro services Architecture and Hibernate/JPA framework is used to save/retrieve the data in the backend  • Spring JDBC used retrieve and update ,inserting data in Cassandra tables.  • Used Apache Maven as a build tool for building the Restful web-service  Environment: Java 8, concurrent package, lambda expressions, streams, J2ee, webservices,JMS,XML(Dom, Sax, Xpath, Stax, XSLT),IBM MQ,Kafka 2.0, Spring Boot,Apache Camel2.2,SpringBatch,SpringData, Kfka 2.0,,JPA,EHCache,profiler,Angular6,,Eclipse,WebStorm,GIT/Stash(Bitbucket),Jenkins,Confluence,Jira,SourceTree Swagger, Maven, Windows, Linux,DB2,Sql Server, Coherence. Sr.Java Developer JP Morgan Chase - Newark, DE January 2016 to September 2017 UNO is a trade surveillance application which centralizes trading controls and monitors trading activity to avoid trading misconduct and market abuse across trade lifecycle covering all asset classes(Equity, FX, Fixed Income). It enforces financial regulations such as MiFID, EU Market Abuse Directive, REMIT, ESMA Guidelines and the Dodd-Frank Act. It's re-write of an Actimize's (Enterprise Risk Case Management) product.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and development of new applications and existing system enhancements for several complex projects  • Participated in requirements gathering and analysis to design coding, testing and deployment.  • Provided system troubleshooting, customization and user training.  • Used agile methodology to develop user interaction forms and created use cases and sequence diagrams to assist in application design.  • Core Java with Concurrent API is used extensively for parallel processing and chunk processing.  • Spring is used for dependency injection(DI) and Hibernate framework is used for persistency  • Developed generic component, which pulls product information from ESM system in XML, format and serialize to Object. This component developed using Java, EJB and Castor Framework.  • Thread pool and blocking queues used for parallel processing.  • Extensively used Spring JDBC, Spring AOP, Spring Remoting, Spring Schedulers.  • Developed Rule based pluggable validation framework using composite design pattern.  • Drools rules engine is used validate input data and enrich data format required by external system.  • Spring Batch Item Reader, Item Processor, Item Writer used to process files.  • Enabled accurate data manipulation and SQL data updates using service classes and implemented client-side input validation and back-end business logic.  • Played a key role in planning, design, development, programming, deployment and testing of the system.  • Utilized SpringBoot to develop Production grade applications.  • Built Webservices Using Tibco Designer to be Deployed on Tibco EMS server.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP protocol, WSDL and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) Concept.  • Creation of High Level Design Document and Technical Architecture Document.  • Set up Object & relationship mappings with Associations, inheritance and dependency diagrams using StarUML.  • Used JMS for Asynchronous messaging.  • Excellent experience in validating query execution plans & tuned queries using Indexes, Views and Batch processing.  • Used Ant tool to build & deploy the application on the server.  • Deployed the application in UNIX machine and used FTP to see the logs etc  • Worked as Tibco Subject Matter Expert and did troubleshooting for high priority incidents on production servers with a turnaround time of less than two hours.  • Spring Integration (Message Bus) is used to interact with various external systems to send and receive MQ messages and Web Service (soap) requests/responses.  • Created new Key Performance Improvements for Production System working with multiple teams like DBA, Client End Design, Platform Management Engineers and C-Level Execs.  • Worked and Planned Delivery Strategy and Rollout Strategy with UAT and Prod Teams  • Spring JDBC used retrieve and update ,inserting data in Cassandra tables.    Environment: Java8, STS, Spring Boot ,Spring Integration,Spring Batch,Spring Rest,Spring AOP,IBM MQ,Web Services, Eclipse,TibcoEMS, Maven, Jenkins, Restful, SOAP, JIRA, Oracle, PL/SQL, SOAP UI, JUnit, SVN, Linux, Software Engineer HSBC Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to October 2015 Project: XHR  XHR is a product mainly intended for an excellent management of employees of a mid-level company. It is a customized HR specific system which provides different features that make their job easy. It also has features like Payroll management, Leave management, Talent Management Worksheets etc.  • Performed analysis to identify the impact on the existing system on account of forthcoming changes  • Involved in technical decision making, stakeholder communication, team building activities like training, knowledge transfer  • Performed requirements gathering, clarification and modification from client/business and business analysts  • Developed single page applications using Angular JS.  • Involved in design/development of UI using Java, JSP, HTML, JavaScript  • Identified complex problems and communicated with the customers to troubleshoot  • Documented changes over the design gaps.  • Developed custom exceptions to log the more specific exception rather than generic exception  • Provided fix to the issues raised through out system testing  • Participated in documenting high level technical design of application using Business Workflow Diagram, Use Cases, Functional/Design specifications, sequence diagrams  • Responsible for defect meeting, defect fixing and leading iteration  • Coordinated with QA for documenting, reviewing test plans and bug fixing  • Involved in client's meetings and demos  • Provided timely feedback on project-related tasks and issues to management after identifying root cause of issues    Environment: Core Java, JDBC, Servlet, JSP, JavaScript, MS SQL, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Oracle10g, SVN, Eclipse, Toad, Junit, Tomcat 6.x. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, C++, Design patterns, Javascript, Svn Additional Information Technical Skills    Design skills and tools UML, OOAD, Design patterns (Singleton, Business Delegate, DAO, etc.)  Programming Languages JAVA, J2EE, C, C++  Web Technologies HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, JSF,XSD, AJAX, jQuery, AngularJS,  J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, Hibernate, JMS  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MSSQL Server,PLSQL  Frameworks Spring Core/Boot, Hibernate, Angular, Spring MVC  Web Services SOAP, RESTful  IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ  Application Servers WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, Tomcat, Glassfish  Operating systems Windows, Linux, Unix  Build tools Maven, ANT  Version Control GitHub, SVN