Lead Software Developer Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Rancho Cucamonga, CA Software professional with over 18 years of experience with the last 15 years focused on .Net architecture, enterprise development, patterns and practices, project management, and deployment in both web and windows platforms. Strong functional skills include requirement gathering, project management, data migration, and documentation. Excellent communication, leadership and managerial skills. Work Experience Lead Software Developer TekSparx - Fontana, CA November 2014 to Present • Worked with Cash Call, BMS, IEHP as software consultant.  • Updated policies and procedures for software development teams • Supervised teams up to 5 developers.  • Supported financial, HL7, and x12 health care applications.  • Refactored old asp.net legacy code to MVC 5.  • Provided architectural guidance on incoming projects. Decided technology road map.  • Responsible for TFS administration and deployment.  • Responsible for vendor management • Created project timelines and code diagrams.  • Developed mainly in the back end domain but had a few projects client facing • Created SOA based and Micro Services distributed systems architecture • Created centralized WCF web services solution to interact with main Oracle database and legacy Java web services.    Technologies used: Net 4.0/4.5, C#, Xamarin, MVC 4/5, ASP.Net, SQL Server 2016, Oracle, TFS, Microsoft Release Manager, LINQ, Log4Net, J Query, Angular, Bootstrap Software Development Manager OSTCS - Covina, CA February 2014 to November 2014 • Manage multiple applications with a team of 5 people.  • Mentored junior developers and provided guidance of proper architecture using Dependency Injection, MVVM, MVC, enterprise design patterns • Leadership to the team for application production, including architecting solutions, database creation and management; status reporting; client/project team coordination; coding standards and quality assurance.  • Implemented Scrum Methodologies utilizing JIRA and TFS; Led morning stand up meetings.  • Hands-on coding Solution Architect on .net Microsoft stack for both windows and web.  • Refactored and architected business critical applications after the original vendor was not able to finish. Deployed applications on Azure cloud platform.    Technologies used: Windows Azure, .Net 4.0/4.5, C#, MVC 4/5, ASP.Net, SQL Server 2008R2, WPF, EF, TFS, LINQ, Microsoft Enterprise Library, J Query, Knockout, Bootstrap, KendoUI, Telerik Lead Senior Software Developer Consultant CorVel Corporation - Irvine, CA September 2013 to February 2014 • Developed caching system for centralized caching repository.  • Documented business requirements, QA plans and development documentation • Provided guidance of proper architecture using Dependency Injection, MVVM, MVC, enterprise design patterns • Refactored and updated company websites from classic asp to MVC or ASP.NET • Refactored COM component using COM+, WCF, and C# 4.0 • Created Services layer with WCF and WebAPI    Technologies used: .Net 4.0/4.5, C#, SQL Server 2008R2, WCF, EF, TFS, UML, LINQ, Microsoft Enterprise Library, JQuery, Azure Senior Software Consultant Sightline Payments - Las Vegas, NV December 2012 to August 2013 • Architected & Developed administration software to support web tools.  • Documented architecture guide, class diagrams, and WCF test plans • Participated in project planning, project management, daily scrum meetings, walkthroughs, and code review • Implemented TFS source control for continuous integration    Technologies used: .Net 4.0, C#, SQL Server 2008R2, WCF, EF 4.0, TFS, WPF, UML, LINQ, MVVM Light, Microsoft Enterprise Library Software Development Manager GridSpeak - Oakland, CA June 2011 to December 2012 • Designed web application architecture and enterprise object framework for a real time energy trading system.  • Architected & Developed the business and data access framework for the company's enterprise applications • Lead development efforts through architecture, implementation and mentoring of others • Architected & Developed WCF services solution in a SaaS environment to interface with 3rd party government systems and Silverlight application • Managed and mentored a team of 3 .NET web to architecting, develop & maintain all web applications.    Technologies used: .Net 4.0, C#, SQL Server 2008R2, WCF, Silverlight 4, SVN, LINQ, JQuery, Telerik, Infragistics Lead Software Developer Consultant Station Casinos - Las Vegas, NV December 2009 to June 2011 • Assisted with Architecture & Development of enterprise players card holder kiosk system.  • Architected & Developed mission-critical marketing website for players card holders • Assisted with Architecture & Development of enterprise WCF object framework.    Technologies used: .Net 4.0, C#, SQL Server 2008/2008R2, WCF, LINQ, XML, UML, EF 4.0, TFS, Silverlight 3/4, JQuery, MVC 2 Education Community College Of Southern Nevada September 2004 Multimedia Technology Mt. Sierra College June 1999 Skills NET, C#, Software Development, Android, jQuery, Javascript, HTML 5, MVC