Technical Lead Technical Lead Technical Lead • Proficient level Key skills in ASP.NET MVC, C#, Entity Framework, LINQ, jQuery, VB.NET, MS-SQL SERVER 2000, 2005, 2008, 2012, SSIS, Ajax  • 13+ Years of strong experience in software development using Object Oriented technologies  • 3+ Years of experience in Scrum Master Roles and Responsibilities  • Experience in Agile Development Process, GitHub and JIRA for Agile Project Management  • Knowledge of .NET Framework 2.0, 3.5, 4.0 and ASP.NET MVC architectures.  • Capable of self-learning to explore technical competency over a broad range of technologies.  • Possess good communication skills, analytical and troubleshooting skills. Work Experience Technical Lead New market International January 2015 to June 2015 Project Title Delphi - Delphi .FDC Data Migration ( ETL Process)  Duration Start: Jan 2015 End: June 2015  Role Technical Lead,  Technology Used C#.Net, SSIS, SQL Server  Responsibilities  Development of SSIS Packages for different functional area of Delphi, Sustaining work in Migration and Pre-Migration Utilities developed for Delphi to FDC Migration. Managing Sales-Force org for Migration.    Description  Delphi.fdc is CRM hospitality management product developed in Sales-Force. Delphi (Legacy product of Hospitality Management) to Delphi.fdc mainly covers data migration from Delphi database to Delphi.fdc objects of Sales-Force org. Data migration application is developed using C#.Net, SSIS packages used for migration. We have also user Pragmatic Task factory controls for downloading and uploading data to Sales-force.  Delphi to Delphi FDC Migration mainly includes extraction of Delphi DB to staging database and then uploads of staging database to object of Sales-force Delphi .FDC org.    Client New market International Team Lead, Senior Developer Advanced Learning July 2010 to December 2014 Technology Used ASP.Net MVC 5.0, SQL Server 2008, jQuery, TFS, SSIS  Responsibilities  Team Lead: Lead a team of 3-4 developers for support activity of one module in Progresso Support Activity.  Senior Developer: Part of Technical Architecture Team, which is responsible for creating architecture and common components of the Progresso project. Part of Development team responsible for development of the various functional modules of the Progresso web based system.    Description  Progresso is a web based solution developed for Advance Learning for their large UK school clients. Progresso provides educational improvement by supplying the relevant data, tools and services directly to schools, parents and local authorities in one integrated online solution.  Progresso enables pupil and school level educational improvement through the empowerment learner stakeholders, from parents to the Local Authority, through the provision of data, tools and services in one integrated solution.    Client Advanced Learning    Details of Projects worked in Universal Software Senior Software Developer, Module Lead XJail 2006 to July 2010 Jail Management System)  Duration Start: Octomber, 2006 End: July, 2010  Role(s) Senior Software Developer, Module Lead  Technology Used C# .NET, ASP .NET, SQL SERVER 2000/2005  Responsibilities Senior Developer, Database Design and Team Leader  Description  XJail is Jail Management system which manage information regarding Inmate, Booking, Grievance, Incident, Sentence, Gang, Victim, Mugshot, Inmate tracking and all Jail related activities. User can also manage dynamic forms and dynamic tables as per their requirements. The entire database related operations done through web service.  XJail Website is web-based interface, which provides interface for Mugshot Lineup, searching inmate and view detail information about inmate. It also provides searching facility for booking, release and charge information of inmate. Address management XJail 2006 to July 2010 Role(s) Senior Software Developer  Technology Used C# .NET, SQL SERVER 2000  Responsibilities Senior Developer  Description  XGeo is address management and address verification system. It simplifies the method of recording address information throughout the system. XGeo provides the proper hierarchy for storing address information. It simplified entry allows for minimal keystrokes, sound-alike and alpha substitutes, alternate and common names for addresses. XGeo is also verify type of  Address you have entered, validate to check whether the entered address is proper or not.    Client USA Police Agencies    Details of Projects worked in Living Paper India Pvt. Ltd. Senior Software Developer EDEN - Veterinary Hospital System May 2005 to September 2006 Duration Start: May, 2005 End: September, 2006  Role(s) Senior Software Developer  Technology Used C#.NET, SQL SERVER 2000  Responsibilities Software Developer  Description  EDEN is veterinary Software, Which works as ERP System in the veterinary Hospital. It's a Distributed System. The Architecture defined as 3-tier Architecture, in which Presentation layer, Business Layer and Data layer. All the Business logic (Main coding), Coding to Connect to Database is written in the Business Layer. Presentation layer is implemented through the Infragistic control, which provides the good user interface. SQLServer 2000 works as Database Layer. All DML (Insert, Update and Delete) statements are implements thought the Stored Procedure. Distributed Concept is implemented by .NET Remoting which is the key point of EDEN.    Client Veterinary Hospital    EDUCATION DETAILS Education M.Sc in I.T Veer Narmad South Gujarat University June 2005 M.Sc. in Specialization Veer Narmad South Gujarat University 2005 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages ASP.Net, MVC, ADO.Net, Entity Framework, LINQ, C#.Net, VB.Net, Ajax, Crystal Reports, jQuery, JSON, SSIS  .NET Framework 4.5, 4.0, 3.5,2.0  Database SQL Server 2008/2005, 2012  Platform Windows 7, XP, DOS  Web Server IIS  Others Visual Studio TFS, SQL Server Management Studio  Current Role Technical Lead