Volunteer Project for Non-Profit Volunteer Project for Non-Profit Actively Seeking Roles in Full-Stack Web Development San Leandro, CA Work Experience Volunteer Project for Non-Profit Non-Profit Work - San Jose, CA March 2019 to August 2019 Project: Web Application  Full-Stack Web Application written in Python with Django Framework  Python Developer  March 2019 – August 2019  • Made a full web application that kept count and contact information of people who would like to participate in an event held by the organization  • Made validated forms and added them to Django views and templates that then persisted into a PostgreSQL database with Django models.  • Leveraged twitter API to give workers the opportunity to share why they would like to participate in the action to an anonymous twitter account.  • Utilized MailGun to send out verification emails to workers to ensure they were legitimate participants.  • Used git and GitHub for making code modifications and peer-review  • Deployed on Amazon Web Services with Elastic Beanstalk and RDS  • Registered a DNS to connect to Amazon Web Services along with MailGun  • Consulted with labor law experts to draft up disclaimers and legal protections  Software/Languages: Python, Django, JavaScript, CSS, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Beanstalk,  git, MailGun, Twitter API, PostgreSQL Software Developer Capgemini February 2019 to August 2019 I was not assigned to a project. Software Developer Infosys - Sunnyvale, CA February 2018 to February 2019 Project: Apple  Retail Store Planogram Layout, back-end web services  Java Developer  April 2018 – February 2019  • Developed RESTful web services and modified existing RESTful web services with Oracle SQL as the database and Java with Spring Framework as middle-tier  • Tested responses of endpoints with various scenarios, publishing JSON messages to be processed to the database and then tracing through the processing on local instances of the web services.   • Used RESTEasy to make requests to APIs.  • Deployed the .war files of various builds of the web services using Ansible scripts along with internal CI/CD tools.  • Used git and GitHub for making code modifications and peer-review  • Began the admin project for the most recent release from the ground-up, creating the user interface with JSP.  • Test-Driven Development with unit tests written with JUnit  Software/Languages: Java, Spring Tool Suite, Spring Data, Spring MVC, Oracle SQL, SQL Developer, Ansible, git, RESTEasy, JSP, Jenkins, Maven, Junit, git Developer/Trainee Revature - Tampa, FL November 2017 to February 2018 Project: Caliber Trainee Assessment Tool  Helped migrate a performance management suite named Caliber from JavaScript with jQuery into an Angular 4 application. Trainers can input grades and feedback for each of their trainees. The quality department can input their evaluations on the batch of trainees. Trainers and quality personnel can comment on a trainee's profile. The Caliber suite also provides a variety of reports on different levels of granularity using visual dashboards and tabular data. Users can generate individual and batch PDF reports to distribute to clients, trainees, and other stakeholders The following link has more information on the project:  https://app.revature.com/profile/MorganWorthington/33b0e50b15f17187b7165b7d6f40d187  January 2018 – February 2018  • Assigned to SalesForce team to implement user authorization based on user roles. Functionality and views are restricted to the user's role.  • Restricted access to navigation bar links based on user role.  • Mapped input and output into an API for 3 of the REST controllers on the back-end.  • Configured and set up the project for local deployment, working with an existing application and building on top of it.  • Version control with git.  • Implemented a more streamlined usage of subjects in the services on the Angular front-end.  • Worked in an Agile development environment in one of multiple teams on an in-house enterprise application used by Revature.  • Ran and made test cases with Jasmine and Karma.  • Helped document errors and fix bugs.  Software/Languages: Java, Spring, Hibernate, REST, SQL, Angular, HTML, Bootstrap, CSS, Git, Maven, git    Project: Simploy Job Seeker Application  Helped develop a web application named Simploy for helping job seekers and employers to connect. Employers can post and manage job postings with specified number of skills and view resumes of job seekers. Job seekers can post and manage their resume and find jobs that match their skill sets.   December 2017-January 2018  • Implemented Navigation Bar and routed it to other pages.  • Developed Registration page and connected it from front-end to back-end.  • Made Submit Job component and connected it from front-end to back-end.  • Created Submitted Jobs component for employers and added functionality to delete a submitted job from this page.  • Angular was used for front-end development.  • Used Angular Bootstrap for styling.  • Installed Angular Material for added functionality.  • Helped figure out how to populate Angular DataTables properly.  • Followed API for passing data in the proper format between front-end and back-end.  Software/Languages: Angular 4, Spring, Oracle SQL, AWS RDS, Angular Data Tables, Git, HTML5, Maven    Project: Expense Reimbursement System  Developed an Expense Reimbursement System (ERS) as a web application that manages the process of reimbursing employees for expenses incurred while on company time. All employees in the company can login and submit requests for reimbursement and view their past tickets and pending requests. Finance managers can log in and view all reimbursement requests and past history for all employees in the company. Finance managers are authorized to approve and deny requests.  November 2017 – December 2017  • Developed Back-End with Oracle SQL  • Made Middle-Tier with Java 8 Servlets.  • Created Front-End with HTML, jQuery, JavaScript, and AJAX calls to Middle-Tier.  • Used JDBC to communicate from a servlet to the database.  • Passed data from front-end to middle-tier using JSON format.  • Populated a custom table on front-end with data taken from back-end.  • Made each row clickable to reload page with its information to approve or deny that request.  • The front-end was made as a single-page application.  • Used Bootstrap to style the webpage.  Software/Languages: Java, Servlets, JDBC, SQL, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, CSS, Maven Advanced Systems Research Co-Op Emerson Climate Technologies - Sidney, OH May 2016 to August 2016 Project: Binary Fluids Refrigeration Tests  Received data in excel spread sheets and analyzed them to compute a variety of thermodynamic properties to determine the efficiency of heating and cooling cycles of refrigeration or air-conditioning systems. Also mapped out piping diagrams for the various valves, pumps, and heat exchangers.   May 2016 – August 2016  • Analyze and graph data received at various points in the systems to determine effectiveness of cooling cycle.  • Map out piping diagrams for the systems with various refrigerants and arrangements of pumps, valves, and heat exchangers.  Software/Languages: Excel, Red Lion DAQ, MATLAB, Simulink, NIST Software to compute various thermodynamic properties    Project: PLC with Industrial Valve  Learned how to code in the language for an industrial level programming logic controller that can potentially control entire automated assembly lines.  May 2016 – August 2016  • Set up Input/Output of micro-controller  • Wrote code to read pressure and temperature data  • Calculated superheat property from data and output 0 to 10 Volt Expansion Valve signal  Software/Languages: Red Lion PLC, Emerson-made industrial valve.    Simulated evaporator from measurements, ran the model to find heat transfer coefficients  May 2016 – August 2016  • Measured properties of actual heat exchanger like number of coils that ran through it or the physical dimensions of the exchanger.  • Input the measurements into Coil Designer to find the coefficients.  Software/Languages: Coil Designer Education Bachelor's of Science in Engineering Physics in Engineering Physics Ohio State University 2017 Skills Django, Python, Numpy, Pandas, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Java, Spring, Mongodb, Matlab, Labview, Business analysis, Javascript, Git, CSS Links http://www.github.com/morgworth Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information KEY SKILLS:  * Functional: Strategic/Tactical Planning, Business Analysis and Development, Excellent Communication and Interpretation skills  • Technical: Java, Oracle SQL, Spring, Python, Jupyter Notebooks, Django, Pandas, Scikit-learn, Numpy, MATLAB, LabVIEW, Mathematica, SQL Developer, MongoDB, PostgreSQL