Interconnection Representative Interconnection Representative Analyst Waikoloa, HI Work Experience Interconnection Representative Sunrun, Inc - Kailua-Kona, HI September 2015 to Present • Liaison between Sunrun and all Electric Utilities in the state of Hawaii. Handled all communication between stakeholders including customers, engineers, inspectors, and all levels of management in all departments. Developed relationships and managed expectations between internal Sunrun and utility employees.  • Managed the entire life cycle of applications for installing integrated PV-Battery systems on homes. Coordinated the collection of legal, tax, permitting, and authorization documents from all  necessary parties.  • Supervised adherence to utility company and Public Utility Commission requirements and ensured compliance to new and updated Interconnection Tariffs. Researched new jurisdiction and program requirements to develop SOP and training documents.   • Maintained SLA turnaround, project timelines, and corporate expectations during a period of rapid growth and new technology introduction including the first grid-tied Powerwall storage system. System Analyst(Project) ViVitro Labs & University of Victoria - Victoria, BC January 2015 to April 2015 • Researched possible implementations for a high sensitivity flow meter for ViVitro's pulse  duplicator project. Intended to provide a more precisely testing environment for new cardiovascular devices. Software Developer University of Victoria Bioinformatics Lab - Victoria, BC August 2014 to December 2014 Spoke with Professors about desired new features for analysis of virus genomes in order to create accurate specifications. Fielded application technical support calls and emails.     Maintained and updated Java Spring Boot applications.     Functioned as the lab's System Administrator and webmaster on a 24/7 basis in order to ensure the global client base could access the lab's at the time unique analysis software. Analyzed current system processes to upgrade lab adherence to OWASP standards, as well as analyzed current infrastructure as a basis for researching upgrades to the labs aging server hardware. System Analyst / Apprentice Electrician I Wire - Waikoloa, HI May 2014 to August 2014 Performed requirements elicitations and generated specifications for an in-field communication and inventory management platform for the construction industry. Software Developer Agilefant & University - Victoria, BC January 2014 to April 2014 Developed AngularJS application, Mobilefant, for Agilefant's agile-focused project management  platform as part of a remotely distributed team with members in Canada and Finland.  • Authored technical documentation and user guides for Mobilefant  • Participated in group activities focused on developing a resource handbook and textbook for  Agile Methodologies. Education B.S. in Computer Science University of Victoria - Victoria, BC January 2011 to June 2015