Front End Developer/ React JS Developer Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ React JS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer/ React JS Developer - General Motors Austin, TX • Around 5+ years of IT experience which includes 2+ years of Extensive experience as a React JS Developer and 3 years of Experience as a UI Developer.  • Extensive experience in developing web pages using HTML/HTML5, XML, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, Flex, Angular JS (1.X), jQuery, JSON, Node.js, Ajax, jQUERY Bootstrap.  • Experienced in MERN stack development Mongo DB, Express, Node and React.  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  • Extensive knowledge in developing single - page applications (SPA's).  • Working knowledge of Web protocols and standards (HTTP HTML5/XHTML/XHTML-MP, CSS3, Web Forms, XML, XML parsers)  • Good experience on customizing CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and Foundation using CSS pre-processors LESS or SASS and compass.  • Implemented easy to use Bootstrap plugins for building carousel, accordion, modal windows etc.  • Good Expertise in analyzing the Document Object Model (DOM) Layout, DOM Functions, Java Script functions and Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  • Experience in working with Angular 2/4 modules, services, templates, services and dependency injection to create a SPA.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Good Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  • Expertise in using Angular JS Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templates, Events and Injectors.  • Experienced in working with Node.JS and NPM modules like http-server, Marathon, inquirer, path, mongo DB, Micro Services, Request, Elastic Search, express, luck, spark and templating engines.  • Experience in Node environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Gulp, Groovy Bower.  • Strong in using the Node.js, and Require.js and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web application  • Expertise in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications using JAVA along with Spring, Servlets.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java and various J2EE technologies including Java/J2EE technologies Java, Spring, REST, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Hibernate, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, EJB, XML and JMS.  • Expertise in writing SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers with Oracle 9i/10g, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, DB2, Blob storage and MS-SQL Server.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Knowledge of utilizing cloud technologies including Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure Blob and Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  • Expertise in video coding by using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Expertise in RESTful, SOAP web services to integrate between Application to Application.  • Experience with front-end development with back-end system integration.  • Proficient in using Unit.js testing framework along with Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Mocha test runners.  • Good Experience in Bug tracking tools like JIRA, HP Quality Center and Bugzilla  • Experience in Version Control tools like CVS, GIT, SVN and Clear-Case for Source Code version management.  • Experience in Jenkins and Maven.  • Expertise in using IDE tools such as Notepad ++, Web Matrix, Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor, IntelliJ IDEA, Web Storm and Visual Studio Code.  • Ability to work effectively while working as a team member as well as individually.  • Excellent communication and Inter-Personal Skills, well organized, goal oriented. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer/ React JS Developer General Motors - Austin, TX October 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on React JS, JavaScript, Restful web services, HTML 5, CSS3 for responsiveness.  • Worked in an Agile-driven environment to effectively maintain project timelines and utilize available resources.  • Worked in VDM (Vehicle Distribution Management) project for North America region which deals with distribution of vehicle inventory across dealers.  • Responsible for implementing UI mockups, integrating third party REACT libraries and handling/creating Redux store data.  • Worked on NodeJs as the server side implementation.  • The front-end use HTML5, CSS3, React JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Bootstrap to build a single page web app that communicate with back-end via RESTful API.  • Worked on DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery.  • Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labelling/naming conventions using GIT source control.  • Worked on End-to-end testing using Cypress testing framework.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Responsible for React UI and Architecture, building components library, including Tree, Slide-View and Table Grid  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage and added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using react.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, Sass, Less, JavaScript, Bootstrap, React JS, Redux, Flex, My SQL,, Git hub, Restful API, AWS, JIRA, Jasmine, Cypress and IntelliJ. UI Developer/ React JS Developer Sirius XM - Irving, TX December 2017 to September 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery and React.js that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented react JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozella, IE 7, 8, 9, Safari and FF.  • Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable.  • Used Excel Builder 3rd Party open source library and tweak it to make sure it will work with IE11.  • Used flickity.js for creating carousel-images.  • Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • In Phase Two, worked closely with the Back-End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Added Dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  • Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  • Optimized animation logic with optimistic functions to increase performance in rendering.  • Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  • Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Used React flux to polish the data and for single directional flow.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Extensively used debugging tools such as Firebug and IE Dev tools to investigate the issues and fix the bugs.  • Monitoring the offshore work and providing technical help to the offshore team for their JIRA tickets.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for fixing of Issues.  • Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, Sass, Less, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Ajax, React JS, Redux, Flex, My SQL, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, Git hub, Restful API, AWS, JIRA, Jasmine and Web Storm. Front-end- Developer/ React JS Developer Boston Consulting Group March 2017 to November 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  • Involved designing in web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React.js, Redux , Flex, Mongo DB.  • Researching JavaScript based frameworks like React Native and Ionic/Cordova for frontend.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Configured Web pack to execute linters, magnifiers, pre/post-processors, tests, transpires based on build target.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Implemented React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable).  • Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using React.  • Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  • Have worked on AWS to integrate the server side and client side code.  • Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between Server side to Client Side  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • As an onsite coordinator, I have interacted with offshore team to give the Functional and Technical Knowledge and to track the status of the project.  • Used HP Quality Center to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, Java Script, React JS, Redux, Flex, Web Strom, JSP, MS Office, HP Quality Center, Jasmine, GitHub, and Jenkins. UI Developer Byte ally - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2016 to December 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Created a custom responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application using Angular JS.  • Developing and designing SPA user interfaces in AngularJS.  • Worked on Front end by using AngularJS, JavaScript.  • Used Angular.js for connecting the API's using Angular.js $http service.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Used AngularJS multiple in-built directives such as filters, root scope, scope, modal, template, state etc.  • Developer responsive interface using Bootstrap and used SASS for CSS.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Applied jQuery scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Responsible for front-end UI design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery plugins.  • Used Media Queries for the design to be compatible in all devices.  • Developed different jQuery component in MVC framework.  • Used Dreamweaver as editor for designing new pages.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Used Grunt as task runner to test the JavaScript with JSHint.  • Worked on Cross-Browser Compatibility and tested each & every web application on popular web browsers such as Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, Opera and Chrome.  • Used Media Queries to deal with different CSS related issues on different devices.  Environment: Angular.js, JavaScript, GIT, Bootstrap, Ajax, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Oracle database, Eclipse, Dreamweaver, SPA, OOP, MongoDB, FLUX, Twitter Bootstrap, GIT, SASS, Grunt, Photoshop. Software developer Augray - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2014 to April 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Understand each and every module and gathered and managed the project content by using Content Management System (CMS).  • Designed the web pages by using HTML, XHTML, and CSS and deploy the script using with JavaScript.  • Developed secured web applications by using client scripting such as JavaScript and jQuery.  • Wrote external CSS file, which linked to the HTML file to increase the traffic of the web site.  • Involved in software coding, testing, and debugging for web presentation layer using HTML and CSS.  • Developed the application logos and images by using Adobe Photoshop CS3 and Illustrator.  • Developed the Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) with the help Adobe Dreamweaver CS3 and AdobeContributeCS3 and AJAX.  • Designed the graphic objects, illustrations, images (vector and bitmap) and banners with using Adobe Flash MX and F Script, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator.  • Developed the user interactive web applications and Rich Internet Applications (RIAs) using with the help of Adobe Dreamweaver CS3.  • Developed E-commerce enterprise applications using web technologies like HTML, DHTML, XHTML, DOM, PHP Script, JSP Script and CSS based on the W3C standards.  Environment: CSS, CMS, SEO, HTML, XML, JavaScript, JSP, AJAX, Macromedia Flash MX, Action Script, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, XML, Adobe Dreamweaver MX and SQL Server 2005. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology in Information Technology SRM University Skills C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Json, Vb.net, Xml, Html5, Sass, Ajax, Asp, Dreamweaver, Iis, Iis 6, Asp.net, Tomcat, Web logic, Web services, UI, Front End, React, Angular, Front-End Additional Information Technical Competencies:  Web Technologies: HTML, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, WordPress, JSON, Twitter Bootstrap, React JS, Angular JS 1.x, Express JS, Node.js, GitHub.  Development tools: Eclipse, Web Matrix, Web Strom, Bonita, Sublime, Dreamweaver, and Notepad++.  Debugging tools: Firebug, Bugzilla, Chrome Developer Tools, IntelliJ.  Frameworks: React JS, Angular JS (1.x), Node JS.  Servers: IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, BEA Web Logic 8.1, J Boss, HTTP Webserver.  Platforms: Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP/Vista, Sun Solaris 9/10, IBM-AIX 5.2/5.3, Linux 5/6.  Methodologies: Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML Water fall.  Databases: MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Spunk data storage (Big data), Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, SQL Server 2000, 2005 & 2008; IIS 6.0/7.0.  Frond End Tools: CorelDraw, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Illustrator.  Programming Languages: C, C++, JAVA, MySQL, C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net, web Services.