Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> San Jose, CA Seeking a full-time in Computer Science field. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer Green Ninja (San Jose State University) - San Jose, CA May 2018 to May 2019 Designed, developed and maintained a scalable learning management system (https://greenninja.org) for teachers of elementary schools to view the curriculum and download required material. It is hosted on AWS Elastic Beanstalk and tested for more than 2000 users.  Maintained and updated an automation tool to help admin and curriculum developers manage users and edit curriculum.  During development, agile development methodology is followed, and while working in a team, Git is used as version control. Senior Systems Engineer Infosys - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2017 to July 2017 Designed wireframes for various web pages of Internet of Things PoCs.  Developed User Interface using Angular, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap and various other trending technologies and exposed REST APIs that were required by the web application using Node.js, Java.  Designed and administered a database for various projects and handled deployment to Microsoft Azure and AWS. Systems Engineer Infosys - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2014 to January 2017 Designed wireframes for various web pages of Internet of Things PoCs.  Developed User Interface using Angular, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap and various other trending technologies and exposed REST APIs that were required by the web application using Node.js, Java.  Designed and administered a database for various projects and handled deployment to Microsoft Azure and AWS. Education Master of Science in Computer Science San Jose State University - San Jose, CA August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Atria Institute of Technology, Visvesvaraya Technological University(VTU) - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2010 to June 2014 Skills AngularJS (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), HTML5 (4 years), Java (3 years), Python (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mrudula-murali Certifications/Licenses IBM Certified Application Developer - Cloud Platform V1 February 2016 to Present Additional Information SKILLS  Programming Languages/Frameworks: AngularJS, Bootstrap, C, C++, CSS, Data Structures, ExpressJS, HTML5, Java,  JavaScript, jQuery, Maven, MVC, Node.js, NvD3, Openlayers, Python, Spring Boot,  Tomcat  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows  Databases: MongoDB, MySQL, SQL Server, IBM CloudantDB  Platforms: IBM Bluemix, Thingworks, Microsoft Azure