Sr. Full Stack .Net Developer Sr. Full Stack .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack .Net Developer - Omnicare - Cincinnati, OhioJune • 8 years of experience in Microsoft Technologies in Designing, Developing and Implementing Intranet, Internet applications, web development, Object Oriented Programming in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Microsoft.NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/2.0, ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET.  • Solid understanding of Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOD) and RDBMS concepts.  • Good hands-on experience in implementing various software development methodologies like Agile Development Process using Scrum, Waterfall Model.  • Experience in design using Object Oriented Programming (OOPs) Principles like Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism, reusability and Design patterns like Abstract factory, Singleton, Object pool a standard solution to common problems in software design.  • Hands-on experience in creating rich user interface for the web using HTML5, jQuery, XML, CSS3, Ajax Control Tool kit, Java Script, Angular JS, Bootstrap etc.  • Expertise in developing various applications using .NET technologies like C#, MVC, XML, ASP.NET, WCF, WPF, ADO.NET, Windows Forms and Rest API.  • Extensive experience in using features of .Net Framework Generics Collection, Extension Methods, Lambda Expression, Events, Delegates, Process, LINQ and Multithreading.  • Using Curator API on Elasticsearch to data back up and restoring.  • Involved in creating WINFORMS for in-house Windows applications using C#.  • Good experience in developing applications using MVVM, MVP, MVC 5/4/3, Entity Framework.  • Strong developing experience in Visual Studio .NET 2015/2012/2010/2008.  • Extensive experience in Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), LINQ, jQuery, JSON objects, and MVP/MVC Design Patterns.  • Performed automation engineer tasks and implemented the ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Fluentd, Kibana) for AWS EC2 hosts.  • Familiar with JavaScript libraries like Knockout JS, Aurelia and Bootstrap templates and Angular JS framework.  • Proficiency in SDLC methodologies and development processes such as requirement gathering, analysis, prototyping, design, development and implementation of enterprise software solutions.  • Experience with XML, SOAP, WSDL, Web Services, Validation Controls, Authentications like windows authentication, forms authentication.  • Experience in Classic ASP applications, JSON and VB6 scripting.  • Experience on ADO.NET components such as Datasets, Data Adapter, Data Reader, Data View, Data Table and Command object to access and update database.  • Expert in Database development and proficient in writing database Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, cursors and Complex queries in MS SQL Server, MS Access, and Oracle. Extensive experience in SQL Server Database design.  • Development Experience in SQL Server 2005, 2008 SQL Programming, T-SQL, stored procedures, ADO.NET, Oracle, PL/SQL, Test Driven Development.  • Excellent experience in developing the Data Access Layer for CRUD operations and to interact with Databases using ADO.NET and ADO.NET Entity Framework Database First/Code First Approaches, LINQ to Entities.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern, Model-View- View Model (MVVM) design Pattern Team FoundationServer (TFS) and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Have developed reusable custom User Controls in WPF (OOP) for multiple projects with rich UI components. Good experience in creating XAML based UI development.  • Implementedmultithreading and parallel processing concept as part of developing WPF application.  • Specialized in designing/architect, developing and maintaining Restful and SOAP web services using WCF.  • Experience in design and development of applications using .NET and Client-side operation like jQuery, Telerik User Interface (Kendo UI), Bootstrap with Responsive design adopted to mobile view.  • Expertise in creating Client/Server Applications on Three Tier Architecture for multiple users.  • Good experience in creating XAML based UI development.  • Created Dynamic Mobile views using Angular JS, Node JS, and React JS.  • Have Strong Database skills using SQL, T-SQL and PL/SQL  • Sound knowledge of SOA principles and design patterns. Designed and developed WCF/XML web services.  • Experience in handling bug fixing and testing code changes for new modules to ensure quality standards before releasing to the production environment and supported the Operations team on a regular basis.  • Worked on Kendo UI- controls like grid, list view and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Strong hands on setting up connections and working on the Relational Database Management (RDBMS) like SQL server.  • Worked with .NET Server Controls, Web User Controls, Data Grid Web Controls and Form Validation Controls, created numerous Custom controls.  • Worked on various Versions Controls like Git, Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Expertise in Web forms GUI development including client and server components, custom controls user controls, Web Services, ADO / ADO.NET.  • Built a Full-Service Catalog System which has a full workflow using Elasticsearch.  • Experience in Cloud computing platform like Microsoft Azureand alsoAmazon Web Services(AWS) for building, deploying and managing applications and services.  • Experience in DTS, ETL, Creating Packages, and Reporting Services (SSRS), Integration Services (SSIS), Analysis Services (SSAS) on SQL Server Database.  • Experienced in designing and developing reports using SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS), Power BI Desktop and Crystal reports.  • Good communication skills, interpersonal skills and effective organizational skills. Work Experience Sr. Full Stack .Net Developer Omnicare - Cincinnati, OhioJune - Cincinnati, OH 2016 to Present Description:  Omnicare, a CVS Health company, is an industry leading long-term care pharmacy services provider focused on supporting community residents and staff throughout the continuum of care. Its platform allows people to ask, learn, and act upon the questions of various health and wellness issues. Developed new User Interfaces and templates for social networking site and UI for the direct messaging application.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Scrum methodology like participating in daily standup meetings, Sprint Planning and Retrospective meetings  • Development of web application using ASP.NET MVC in Microsoft Visual Studio IDE.  • Major role in the development of the web application using ASP.NET MVC 5, C#, Java script, jQuery, Bootstrap, Entity Framework, Angular and AJAX.  • Built impressive user-friendly UI/UX designs for application using Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3 andBootstrap.  • Designed and developed dynamic ASPX web pages using C#, ASP.Net, HTML5, Java Script.  • Worked on Kendo UI controls like grid, list view and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Used various Server Controls like Multi View and Grid View with extensive Data Binding to Display, Page and Sort Multiple Records.  • Used Microsoft Entity Framework Code First approach for the Data Access Layer for the ASP.NET MVC 5 application  • Developed a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based design of the collaboration product involving designing and creating schemas.  • Used ASP.NET AJAX Toolkit controls like Script Manager, Update Panel and Modal popup.  • Expertise in Angular controllers, directives, components, factory and service resources, routings and events.  • Used AJAX and JSON communication for accessing RESTFUL web services data payload.  • Performed database operations on SQL Server 2014 by creating SQL queries, stored procedures, functions, indexes and views  • Involved in hosting application in IIS and creating scripts for database installation on a particular sprint.  • Developed WCF Services to integrate with SOAP compatible systems and RESTful services are implemented using ASP.NET Web API to support light weight data exchange in ASP.NET MVC UI  • Generate reports with parameters, sub reports, cross tabs, charts using Crystal Reports.  • Used the Log4Net for logging purpose.  • Used Unity IOC container for Dependency Injection.  • Knowledge on Greenplum for high analytical query on large data  • Created databases and schema objects including tables, indexes and applied constraints, connected various applications to the database and written functions, stored procedures and triggers using MS-SQL, T-SQL, PL-SQL and SQL Server 2014.  • Involved in writing user-defined functions (UDFs), user-defined types (UDTs), and queries using T-SQL and SQL server analyzer.  • Used SSRS to create reports, customized Reports, on-demand reports, ad-hoc reports and involved in analyzing multi-dimensional reports in SSRS.  • Involved in developing Packages for data loading and extraction using SSIS, C# and scheduled packages.  • Development and Deployment using Power ShellScripts using Azure.  • Developed and deployed back-end services to Azure clouds.  • Developed Power ShellScripts for Automated Deployment of Developed Packages using Service Fabric.  • Involved in testing like Unit test, Integration test, Acceptance test and Regression testing using NUnit and responsible for writing test scripts and scenarios.  • Used SMTP mail classes of .NET to enable customers in receiving mails with suggestions, alerts from the bank, confirmation, and notifications  • Used TFS for version control of the source code along with the maintenance of the builds and the relevant documents of the same.    Environment: .NET Framework 4.5, ASP.NET MVC 5, MS Visual Studio 2015, POWER SHELL, WCF, JSON, C#, JavaScript, jQuery,HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Entity Framework, SSIS, SSRS, AJAX, Ajax Control Toolkit, Angular (2), XML, RESTful, SQL Server 2014, ADO.NET, TFS, Azure. Sr .Net Developer Liberty Mutual - Indianapolis, IndianaDec 2014 to May 2016 Description:  The management system provides complete business automation of Liberty Mutual. The application provides the ability to track customers and their loans from any of their branches. It can also track the complete history of business transactions or history of the customer loan account. It is used for much speedier loan approval/denials. The solution was implemented as a robust, scalable and efficient web application with C# and SQL Server. Designed web-based application for the Liberty Mutual Loan Management for customers.    Responsibilities:  • Plan and execute phases of the Software Development Life Cycle utilizing agile methodologies to achieve end-to-end development of web-based applications.  • Application components are developed in an agile environment utilizing a test-driven development approach.  • Worked on razor pages in ASP.NET 4.5 web applicationwhich is in MVC 5architecture using C# as code behind  • Used AJAX Tool Kit to increase the functionality of the web page with asynchronous functionality.  • Used jQuery for Client-Side Validations and AJAX calls to communicate with Controller Actions and WCF Services with JSON Data.  • Involved in creating rich and interactive UI using CSS, Java Script, Ajax, Angular JS, React JS.  • Implemented client and server-side validations using JavaScript, Knockout JS and ASP.NET validation controls.  • Extensive experience in creating rich content Web Forms, Server Controls, Web Services.  • Used MS Visual Source Safe for source code management.  • Used ReactJSto design to make the process of building modular, reusable user interface components simple and intuitive.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) with ASP.Net Web API 2 and Angular JS using Code First Approach in Entity Framework.  • Used ReactJS fully to transude components, replacing them with new content  • Worked with Team Foundation Server 2015 for version control of the source code along with the maintenance.  • Used T-SQL to include querying and making changes in the database, using functions and CRUD statements and Written Triggers, Views and Indexes using SQL Server.  • Implemented various features like Partial classes, Anonymous types, Read-Only Properties, Polymorphism and Inheritance of C# in building data entity model.  • Developed UI using Telerik Kendo UI, user controls, layouts and styles which inputs the data and display the data for the web applications using ASP.NET  • Developed and consumed WCF Services to achieve Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and communication.  • Used LINQ to build a set of operations, parameters and expressions (Lambda) while "Querying" a set of data from an SQL Server.  • Designed database in MS-SQL and created stored procedures, functions, views to reduce the complication of front-end SQL queries and triggers to enforce entity relationships.  • Created Stored Procedures for performing repetitive tasks in updating related tables using SQL Server 2014 database.  • Created Jobs, Packages, and Reporting Services (SSRS), Integration Services (SSIS) on SQL Server Database.  • Ensured the secure transfer of data from on premise to Azure.  • Designed archive structure for error logs for auditing purposes using T-SQL and Integration Services.  • Use of Azure services for HA and DR and Developed security policies for Azure cloud.  • Developed the Test cases for Unit Testing and Automation Testing using Selenium.  • Used SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) for generating reports populated by data in databases.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for source code control, project related document sharing and team collaboration.    Environment: Microsoft SQL Server 2014, Visual Studio 2015, C#, ASP.NET 4.5, MVC 5.0, Web API, jQuery, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, Node JS, React JS, Knockout JS Visual Safe, WCF, AJAX, Angular JS, Entity Framework, LINQ, IIS 7.5, NUnit, TFS, SSRS, SSIS, Selenium, Azure. .Net Developer Indiana State Department of Health - Indianapolis, IN December 2012 to November 2014 Description:  The Hospital Preparedness Program guides Indiana hospitals in fulfilling and maintaining the healthcare capabilities required by the federal government and coordinates preparedness responses among hospitals in the state to ensure the most efficient and effective response to any type of event. The Local Public Health Preparedness Program section acts as a source of technical expertise and support to local public health staff throughout Indiana in maintaining public health disaster preparedness.    Responsibilities:  • Actively Participated in SCRUM meetings discussing the implementation, integration of backlog modules considering the released version of software and best practices for solutions.  • Designed and developed Web Pages using ASP.NET, C#.NET, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX,jQuery CSS and Server controls.  • Used Bootstrap and, Knockout JS UI Framework for developing the responsive web application to be used on Desktop/Tablets or Mobiles  • Developed the front-end application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON.  • Worked on jQuery that includes AJAX calls for RESTful API's those were built with ASP.NET Web API.  • Used jQuery for client-side scripting and Entity framework as ORM tool with database first approach.  • Worked extensively on the UI, created Views by utilizing MVC, created View models and wrote client-side validations using jQuery and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Used KnockoutJS that allows to bind the html elements against any data model providing a two-way data binding mechanism.  • Extensive experience in creating rich content Web Forms, Windows Forms, Server Controls, Web Services.  • Developed SOAP based Middleware using Web Services to read XML files which is to provide communication between data access layer and backend database.  • Used Telerik controls like RadChart and RadGridview to provide richer user experience.  • Created Menus and Drawer component by using Typescript and knockout JS.  • Used ASP.NET Server Controls, Validation Controls and User Controls for creating web forms.  • Developed secure login interfaces with ASP.NET Server controls.  • Extensive use of MVVM (MVC) and WPF for a unified user interface.  • Programmed ADO.NET in the Data Access Layer for communication between application and the SQL Server database and several modules in the n-tier application.  • Developed Win Forms and integrated these forms with Windows Services.  • Created Views by applying complex queries on multiple tables to create the virtual tables and implemented Cursors in Stored Procedures using SQL Server 2008, Implemented Joins in Stored Procedures to get the desired data by joining multiple tables.  • Involved in Database Designing in SQL Server 2000 and T-SQL, PL/SQL coding.  • Effectively designed application windows using XAML using various WPF controls like Data Grid, Combo Box, Textbox, etc.  • Implemented SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Crystal reports to deliver variety of interactive reports.  • Used the Event log classes for logging errors.  • Worked to prevent connection string vulnerability attacks on Oracle DB.  • Responsible for testing, fixing the bugs and troubleshooting the SQL injection errors.  • Used Microsoft Entity Framework Code First approach for the Data Access Layer for the ASP.NET MVC 5 application  • Involved in re-design, re-code, and deploy new data extractions using SSIS, and designed and produced documentation of data transformations for all extractions.  • Created batch files to trigger the scripts for the application and database deployment and scheduled to run nightly in Task Scheduler.  Environment: C#, Visual Studio 2013, SDLC, HTML, CSS, XML, ASP.NET MVC 4/5, WCF, Win Forms, Java Script, jQuery, Knockout JSSVN, ADO .NET, Ajax, Bootstrap, IIS 6.0, NUnit, SQL Server 2008, JSON, Windows XP, UML, Oracle DB, SSIS, SSRS, Windows Server 2008 R2/2008.    Professional Experience: .NET Developer Regions Bank - Birmingham, ALSep 2011 to November 2012 Description:  Regions Financial Corporation is a bank and financial services company headquartered in the Regions Center in Birmingham, Alabama. The company provides retail and commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services    Responsibilities:  • Gathered business requirements, provided architecture and design for financial module for Medicare Advantage program.  • Developed a .NET batch application responsible for extracting data from FACETS and transferring it to Voyager system (enterprise wide software).  • Designed User Interfaces using HTML, JavaScript and CSS3 to enhance UI experience on Client-side.  • Developed a VB.NET batch application responsible for processing Medicare enrollee information from Voyager into FACETS.  • Performed conversion of existing classic ASP web applications into ASP.NET, for various short-term contract projects, utilizing C#.  • Implemented data transport and processing using JSON and XML.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface usingJavaScript, HTML,CSS, jQuery, AJAX.  • Used ASP.NET MVC, HTML5 and CSS3 to design the presentation layer of the website. Used HTML5 for re-designing the web application and Prepared various test cases to fix the bugs and ensure the application error-free.  • Experienced in developing Win Forms.  • Used .NET Framework class library to build user interface that separated application logic from presentation code using code behind pages.  • Designed and developed Window forms using WPF, and C# .NET as business layer language.  • Migrated old Data into new Database using SSIS  • Good Experience in various testing phases like Functional, Regression, Retesting, System Testing, Adhoc Testing, Smoke Testing, Sanity Testing, End to End Testing, User Acceptance Testing.  • Expertise in planning and managing projects based on Agile and Waterfall methodology covering the full range of the software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Created Stored Procedures using T-SQL, PL-SQL.  • Created and maintained web content and email templates relating to Amazon Web Services.  • Worked closely with various project stakeholders, SMEs and line of business to understand the new applications along with enhancements to existing applications.  • Experience in creating System Test Plan, Test Strategy, Test cases, Validation Reports, EOT report, Test Execution Summary report, Weekly Status Report, Project Closure activities  • Used GIT for version control of the source code along with the maintenance of the builds and the relevant documents of the same.    Environment:Visual Studio 2010, SVN, SQL Server 2008, .NET 4.0/3.5, ASP.NET, Classic ASP, VB.NET, C#, Web Services (WCF), AJAX Toolkit, MVC 4.0, JavaScript, JSON, MVVM, Win Forms, JQuery, T-SQL, PL-SQL,WPF, Prism, Web Services, CSS3, XHTML, HTML5, SCRUM,SSIS, Rational Requisite Pro,Rational Unified Process, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Git.    Professional Experience: Software Developer Datamatics Technologies Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2009 to August 2011 Description:  Datamatics offers Consulting, Information Technology, and Data Management which helps in the digital transformation through Smart processes, Systems, Devices, and Data. The end solutions are powered by Robotics, and Machine Learning which gives a good business efficiency. It provides high standards of service quality, operational excellence that enabled the clients to transfer into data driven enterprise.    Responsibilities:  • Worked responsible for development of forms using Visual Basic .net.  • Developed ASP.NET Web Forms using C# depending on the business logic.  • Designed user interface using Web forms.  • Used Data Reader, Dataset, and Data Adapter of ADO.NET to have data access from SQL data source.  • Used ASP.NET state management, and accessibility features in developing the application.  • Actively involved in testing of the application.  • Used joins for the flow of data from various tables, and databases.  • Used cascading sheets for uniformity using Master Pages.  • Capable of working well in a team environment.  • Able to work with the customer in developing the application.  • Attended and completed any additional responsibilities assigned.  • Responsible for the design of solution and modification.  • Strong verbal and written communication skills.    Environment: C#.NET framework 3, ASP.NET,Winforms,SQL SERVER, VISUAL STUDIO 2008, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, TFS,XML. Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, AMAZON WEB SERVICES, C#, C++ Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages C# .NET, VB.NET, VB, C, C++, T-SQL, PL-SQL.  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, XSD, WSDL, XAML, SOAP, CSS, Web forms  Microsoft Technologies MVC .NET, ADO.NET, AJAX, Classic ASP, WPF, SILVERLIGHT  Scripting Languages JavaScript, jQuery, Knockout JS, Angular JS,Node JS, React JS, VB Script  Data Bases SQL SERVER 2014/2012/2008/2005/2000, Oracle11g/10g/9i/8i, MongoDB, Greenplum  Framework Microsoft.Net 1.X/2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5  Operating Systems Win NT, Win 95/98, Win-2000/2003/2008/2010, Windows Vista, OSX, Unix  IDE Tools Visual Studio 2015/13/12/10/08/05/03  Enterprise Servers IIS 8.0/7.0/6.5/6.0/5.0  Cloud Platforms Microsoft Azure, Office 365, Amazon Web Services (AWS)  Reporting Tools SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Reports 9.0  Software Methodologies Agile SCRUM, Agile RUP, Waterfall  Version Control GIT, Team Foundation Server(TFS), Subversion(SVN), Visual Source Safe