Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Visa Inc Austin, TX • Systems Engineer professional with 8+ years of IT, worked in different areas like Development, Support and Project Management.  • Strong understanding of Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Polymorphism, Inheritance.  • Areas of expertise Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB 3, JPA and Web Services.  • Implementation of EJB 3.1 for Business services layer, implementation of JPA 2.1 for persistence, mapping of java beans to database tables.  • Handling JSON and XML formats to exchange information by implementing Web Services.  • Expert operating Testing frameworks such as Junit, Mockito and PowerMockito.  • Implementation of Rest Web Services with EJB, JAX-RS, and consumer of Soap Web Services.  • Expert in the operation of SOAP UI tool for testing Web Service.  • Development of a state machine to manage the life cycle of events through Message Queues and Messages Driven Beans  • Creation of JAX RS Services to provide resources for the Social application, implementing APIS for Facebook and Twitter where the application can access and monitor social networks.  • Implementation of Splunk tool to monitoring logs and send notification for critical exceptions.  • Maintenance of database components such as Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and create SQL queries to pull report from database.  • Development of Java 1.6 components incorporating EJBs, generation of JPA 2.0 entities using Hibernate as a persistence provider for LeasingSource and PricingEngine applications.  • Operate application servers such as WebSphere Application Server (WAS), JBoss, and Tomcat as a servlet container.  • Collaborate in some enhancements which implement React JS, JavaScript, HTML to create template for frontend and implementing CCS3 for styling.  • Competent using Debugging tools like Chrome Debugger, Mozilla Firebug, IE developer tools, etc.  • Proficient with Agile and Scrum Methodologies, implementing techniques to improve productivity and decrease gaps.  • Implementation of Java 1.4 and Swing framework to create the new panels, methods, and javabeans to manipulate the information, along with calls to AS/400 APIS to transfer that into AS/400 servers.  • OperateDEV2000/CMVC, Clearcase, StarTeam, RTC and GIT for code versioning.  • Hands on working experience in UNIX shell scripting.  • Strong problem-solving abilities, communication and teamwork skills.  • Strong Customer Orientation and Client Interfacing skills.  • Quick learning abilities and auto-didactic skills.  • Contribute in the revision of the Redbook SG247311 for Implementing IBM Lotus Domino 7 for i5/OS. Work Experience Java Developer Visa Inc - Austin, TX February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Using Agile Methodology and RTC Tool to manage all the features, stories and tasks' assignation of the project. Participating in daily standups, iterations planning, and retrospective ceremonies.  • Perform the development cycle, which includes analyze, design, model, implement (program / code), test and document for an integrated software product using multiple technologies (and multiple programming languages)  • Established technical agreements with the customer architects who are in charge of the applications.  • Coordinated the developing team (10 members) to perform the development and integration of both systems.  • Implement of Pair programming and Continuous Integration.  • Setting up the environment for Join Now project using Java 1.6, and 1.7, Eclipse, WAS Servers.  • Configuration of development environment in Eclipse Kepler, using JSP for the website and EJB 3.1 for Business services layer, implementation of JPA 2.1 for persistence, mapping of java beans to database tables.  • Implement JAX-JS Services to create customized resources to provide information for frontend.  • Security module based on session for user authentication and role assignment.  • Configure Rest/Soap Services in SOAP UI to perform testing.  • Coordinate and perform code reviews for the code changes performed using Smartbear, where team can provide feedback. This helps to provide quality in the delivery.  • Collaborate in some enhancements which implement React JS, JavaScript, HTML to create template for frontend and implementing CCS3 for styling.  • Handling application version by using GIT and RTS.  • Coordination of planned releases.  • Monitoring logs for critical exceptions in the application by implementing Splunk tools.  • Perform troubleshooting for issues reported by customers in Join Now project.    Additional Responsibilities:  • Collaboration as Delivery Manager for 4 months during some restructuration of the USAA Account inside Enterprise Area, where oversaw 10 teams from December 2016 to March 2017.  1. Attending recruiting meetings and monitor attrition.  2. Reporting teams activities to the account managers in USA/India/Mexico, where look for critical projects, needs and how implemented correction actions.  • Oversaw 5 teams which belong to USAA account.  • Follow up meetings with the teams to see necessities and look for the resolutions.  • Program and track of one on one meeting with employees to review goals and challenges for each one.  • Review status with each team and provide advances with Delivery Manager.  • Identify impediments in the team and advice how to proceed in each scenario.  • Implemented functional process for Mobile Lab for USAA account.  • Launched On boarding training for the new employees.    Environment: Java 1.6, 1.7, JavaScript, React JS, CSS, JAX -RS, GIT, RTC, Eclipse, SOAP UI, Tomcat, Agile Methodology, Control M. Java lead Developer GE Capital May 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:    • Continuous collaboration in Leasing Source Support Project, performing analysis, estimations, development and supports of problems reported by customers in the applications, fixes were required for the solution of these problems.  • Development of Java 1.6 components incorporating EJBs, generation of JPA 2.0 entities using Hibernate as a persistence provider for Leasing Source and Pricing Engine applications.  • Development of Web Services clients (Rest) to access the resource provided for Hibernate connections.  • Maintenance of database components such as Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and SQL query.  • Meet with customer and plan priorities; provide status, metrics about enhancements and bug fixes.  • Risk Management where take decisions if code changes are required or not.  • Coordination with Offshore and Mexico teams in order to verify ticket's status opened by users.  • Assignation and evaluation of tasks for team members.  • Analysis, planning and development new requirement provided by users or managers.  • Develop of test plans to test fixes for problem reported by customers.  • Take actions plans in order to resolve high priority bugs.  • Creation of weekly status reports where provide which ticket are critical, graphics and risks..    Environment: Java 1.6, 1.7, Junit, JavaScript, Hibernate, HTML, JAX -RS, RAS, WAS, Eclipse, SOAP UI, Tomcat, Orale Database, SQL Developer, and StarTeam. Sr Java Developer GE Capital April 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:    • Assigned to LeasingSource Support Project.  • Maintenance Java Web applications like LeasingSource, and PricingEngine, developed in Java 1.6.  • Handling EJBs for business layer with high volume of transactions.  • Implemented Hibernate in some database transactions.  • Update HTML content for the different views provided by the applications.  • ImplementingCCS3 as the tool for styling all pages.  • Creating dynamic content and AJAX calls by using JavaScript.  • Generation of EAR and WAR and deploy in Integration Console.  • Configuration of the web applications with JSP pages, incorporation of web templates.  • Handling all HTTP requests implicitly by using Servlets.  • Maintenance of Oracle database and create reporting by using SQL queries in SQL developer.  • Troubleshooting of High priority problems, providing analysis and solutions for them.  • Implement JUnit to create test cases for every developed class.  • Operate StarTeam as source code repository.  • Provide status on daily basis with the team.  • Perform code reviews with the team and provide feedback.  • Implementation of Pair programming with partners.    Environment: Java 1.6, 1.7, Junit, JavaScript, Hibernate, HTML, RAS, WAS, Eclipse, SOAP UI, Tomcat, Oracle Database, SQL Developer, and StarTeam. Sr Java Developer IBM October 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:    • Assigned to iNav and WebNav Project.  • Analysis, planning and development of the migration from Visual C/C++ to Java 1.4/1.5 for Application Module in iSeries Navigator.  • Incorporated Swing and AUIML framework during all migration cycle and implementing multilinguals.  • Implemented AS/400 APIS to connect to multiple AS/400 (iSeries) servers.  • Operate Integrated Console to deploy application in the server.  • Administration function of the iSeries Navigator working from the Web.  • Accomplishment of test cases for the applications.  • Participation in the solution of problems generated during the process of support in the release V5R4 and futures releases of the iSeries Navigator.  • Identify problems in the AUIML framework for the applications development for IBM.  • Review of the information that will be provided to the customers with the new innovations of the iSeries Navigator.  • Provide status on daily basis with the team.  • Collaboration with some activities of Project Management.  • Development and Support of the Web interface of System i Navigator.  • Perform code reviews with the team and provide feedback.  • Implementation of fixes for defects reported by internal developers or external customer.  • Develop of Test plans to be implemented post deployment.    Environment: Visual C/C++, Java 1.4, Java 1.5, AUIML, PDML, JavaScript, HTML, RAS, WAS, Clearcase, Dev2000/CMVC, Integrated Console. Java Developer Subway Franchise World Headquarters - Milford, CT April 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:    • Assigned to Domino for iSeries Development Project.  • Maintenance of Java applications, like Single for Logon iSeries, Domino plug-in for iSeries Navigator,  Ez Setup for Domino and Domino Wizard.  • Implementation of Java 1.4 and Swing framework to create the new panels, methods, and JavaBeans to manipulate the information, along with calls to AS/400 APIS to transfer that into AS/400 servers.  • Provided solutions for problems reported by customers, implementing Hot Fixes for the applications.  • Started the migration framework from PDML to AUIML framework.  • Analysis, planning and development of Domino plugin's modules working from the Web implementing AUIML framework.  • Accomplishment of test cases for the applications.  • Provide status on daily basis with the team.  • Perform code reviews with the team and provide feedback.  • Review of the information that will be provided to the customers with the new innovations of the Domino for iSeries.  • Contribute in the revision of the Redbook SG247311 for Implementing IBM Lotus Domino 7 for i5/OS.  • Participate in the development of following releases: 6.0.4, 6.0.5, 6.5.2, 6.5.4, 6.5.5, 6.5.6, 7.0.0, 7.0.1, 7.0.2.    Environment: Visual C/C++, Java 1.4, Java 1.5, AUIML, PDML, JavaScript, HTML, RAS, WAS, Clearcase, Dev2000/CMVC, Integrated Console. Software Programmer TORRY Harris Business Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2009 to December 2012 Responsibilities:    • Participation in the project of control of inventory for the Universidad de Valle de Mexico (UVM), where functions for the obtaining of information were created, operating terminals Hand Held Dolphin 7200.  • Accomplishment of Security's tests to system SEI (Printer Server Status 1.2) of the company "CIA.Cervecera de Zacatecas S.A. de C.V."  • Creation of a program in C/C++ to make a "ping" towards a computer that is connected in the network, indicating when the connection is satisfactory or rejected.  • Participation in the project "Atomization of the Process of Inventory" of Continental Group, where validations were created for the entrance of users to the application installed in the Dolphin terminals.  • Analysis and update of APIs used in the development of the applications.  • Creation of an application in Visual C/C++ to make functional tests of the Dolphin terminals.    Environment: C/C++, Visual C/C++ for Windows CE embedded. Education Bachelor in Computer Science Technological Institute of Cd. Guzmán Skills C++ (6 years), HTML (5 years), JAVA (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), CLEARCASE (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Java 1.4, 5, 6, HTML, SQL, JavaScript, C/C++  Frameworks JSF, EJB3, JPA, Hibernate, PDML, AUIML  Application Servers or Containers WAS, JBoss, Tomcat  Databases Oracle 11g, DB2, Squirrel, SQL Developer  Web Services SOAP and REST services.  Development Methodologies Agile, Scrum  Third party tools SOAP-UI, Smartbear, Ant, Maven, Control M, Datastage, Splunk.  IDE Development Eclipse, Websphere Development, RSA  Version control RTC, GIT, VisualSource Safe, Dev2000/CMVC, Clearcase, and StarTeam  Quality assurance Junit, Mockito, PowerMockito    Operating Systems Windows, Linux/Unix, OS/400  Others Splunk, Control M, DataStage.