Sr.AEM Developer Sr.AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.AEM Developer - FanThreeSixty Kansas City, MO • 8+ years of experience in IT industry worked with all phases of Analysis, Design, Development, testing and documentation of Web Based Applications.  • 3+ years of experience in Content Management System with Adobe CQ5.5, AEM 5.6,AEM 6.0,AEM.  • Designed and Developed application Leveraging advanced techniques in CQ5 DAM (digital asset management), CQ5 Search and Tagging framework, SOLR Search, Adobe. scene7, CQ5 workflows, CQ5 Campaigns, CQ5 Touts, CQ5 components and templates, CQ5 User and group management.  • Hands on experience in building and deploying enterprise level Web Content Management solutions on Adobe CQ 5.4, 5.6.1, AEM 6.0/6.1/6.2 also a slight demo experience of AEM 6.3 in Virtual Conference of Immerse 16 held by Adobe Communities Group.  • Worked on AEM upgrade project from AEM 6.0 SP2 to AEM 6.3 using in-place upgrade approach.  • Have experience in implementing large scale business application which involves development of CQ Component, Template, Custom Xtypes in Widgets, OSGi Bundles using CQ5 platform.  • Key technology skills - Adobe/DAY- CQ / AEM, Apache Sling, Apache Felix, Maven, SVN, OSGI, JCR, Sightly, WCM, CRX, Oak Indexes, Vault tool, CRXDe LITE, ExtJs, REST, bulk editor, content migration, scaffolding, replication agents, AEM setup with MongoMK and TarMK.  • Expertise in Adobe CRX (Content Management Extreme), CQ5 WCM, Components, Widgets, CQ5DAM, Apache Sling.  • Worked on Adobe CQ/AEM product suite, including CQ/AEM, CRX, CQ WCM and DAM.  • Extensively implemented a Proof of concept of building a Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular JS in AEM 6.1. Implemented Personalization (Dynamic Content Targeting) for Regional based content using AEM Campaigns and Segments.  • Proficient in Adobe CQ foundational concepts, including the CRX repository, the CQ platform, use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix.  • Experience implementing, enhancing, and troubleshooting AEM/CQ 5.5+ installations  • Strong experience in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and Java Script.  • Experience in working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements.  • Strong understanding of front-end technologies and libraries including JQuery, ExtJS, JSON.  • Expertise in developing the distributed applications using WebServices and J2EE Application/Web Servers such as CQ5 , IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomact, JBoss etc.  • Expertise in developing applications based on JSF (Model 2 Architecture).  • Experience in web services using Apache Axis Soap Engine, Restful.  • Working knowledge in open source rich internet application framework, JavaScript libraries Dojo, JQuery, knowledge in HTML5, CSS3.  • Hands on the tools such as Eclipse, RAD, RSA, intellij IDEA,JMeter, Toad,Linux VI editor, Fiddler, Selenium etc. Extensive web design skills and work experience in developing web page applications covering front-end technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML, Ajax, AngularJS, Bootstrap.  • Strong knowledge on employing Java Content Repository (JCR) for developing applications on Adobe CQ. Hands on experience in code/project management tools like SVN, CVS.  • Experienced in writing Maven scripts and Gradle Script to build and deploy J2EE applications, XML access scripts for deployment of Websphere Portal Applications.  • Experience in using Java IDE tools like Eclipse. Work Experience Sr.AEM Developer FanThreeSixty - Kansas City, MO May 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Formulated the Technical requirements by conducting detailed analysis on user requirements.  • Utilized HTML, CSS, jQuery for designing and implementing custom CQ components.  • Performed AEM customization on foundation components, core CMS, and workflows to extend functionalities and improve performance.  • Developed Components and Templates using Adobe AEM 6.1 touch UI for supporting the different Webpages.  • Created components using Sightly replacing Java Server Pages(JSP).  • Provided end-user training and technical guidance to business and technical teams on effectively utilizing Adobe CQ5 Digital Asset Management(DAM), Page Creation, Component Selection, Social Collaboration and workflow management.  • Worked on Multi-Site Manager and extensively used CQ tag libraries in the components.  • Developed complex components with dialog on CQ5.  • Worked on Custom OSGI services, workflows, sling servlets, and Scheduler jobs.  • Worked with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  • Worked on web services to consume the data from the application API's.  • Involved in development of User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON and AngularJS.  • Expertise on using Sightly API for presentation and worked on OSGI Services, Servlets.  • Developed custom widgets using Ext JS based on the requirement.  • Worked on dispatcher configurations for cache and load balancing.  • Developed Adobe AEM templates and reusable components.  • Defined new validations through Angular JS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Worked with making calls to RESTful APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Participated in all the phases of development within the team.  • Scheduled all project activities and manage risks throughout the development cycle.  • Worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and timely builds.  • Collaborate with other functional area experts to design complete solutions.  • Involved in supporting the application post production and maintenance.    Environment: AEM 6.1, 6.2, AEM DAM, CQ, Workflow, Sightly, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, HTML, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, jQuery, Eclipse IDE, AngularJS, Tomcat 7, Scene 7, Apache Maven, Confluence, JIRA, Apache HTTP Server, SOAP and REST Web Services, Linux, Windows. AEM CQ5 Developer Redlands, CA January 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities  • Day to day activities which include but are not limited to migrating content, writing the code from the scratch, testing and debugging it. Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents.  • Working as a software IT developer in an Agile project environment responsible for taking on medium to complex user stories and completing them within a 2-week iteration timeframe.  • Designed and developed, CQ5 building blocks including templates, reusable components, dialogs, widgets, workflows in AEM 6.3.  • Utilized HTML, CSS, and JS, jQuery for designing and implementing custom CQ components and building responsive designs.  • Updating all Content and copy updates as per the requirement every monthly release using touch UI for the website.  • Perform AEM customization on foundation components and workflows to extend functionalities, improve performance or fix issues on project level.  • Developed and deployed custom OSGI bundle in Apache Felix console.  • Created custom workflows to handle DAM asset operations.  • Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) in AEM to control over blueprints and live copies and work on rollout configurations.  • Worked on Digital Asset Management, to manage and store all the media.  • GIT is used as a distributed revision control system for AEM. File vault in conjunction with GIT helps to pull or push the code to developer's machine.  • Used Maven project structure for building the packages, subversion for source control, file vault for importing the code from JCR to file system and vice versa.  • Used Jenkins as build tool and used Asana to track the bugs, issues and project management.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JSON, Adobe CQ 6.2, CRXDE and JSP, Ajax, Eclipse, Git, Adobe CQ5, Asana, JAVA, J2EE, AJAX, JSON, Java Script, JQUERY, Jenkins, Maven, SOAP UI,DAM, Bootstrap, XML, Sitecore. AEM CQ5 Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA April 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities  • Designed and developed, CQ5 building blocks including templates, components, dialogs, widgets, workflows.  • Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and Xpath.  • Developed more than 2 applications that uses JCR content repository in CQ to store information and query the JCR for display and reporting purposes.  • Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  • Proficient in Adobe CQ foundational concepts, including the CRX repository, the CQ platform, the use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix.  • Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system, Adobe CQ5  • Maintaining OSGI java classes for assets import, validation processes, and to fetch the data from CQ repository obtained from different providers.  • Provide estimates, designs, and specifications for CQ5 templates, components, and workflows  • Built various web pages using HTML, CSS, Java Script and JQuery.  • Solid understanding of all Adobe CQ building blocks and the CQ development and deployment process.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, CQ5 dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache  • Worked on CQ5 Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.  • Offer solutions on top of the Adobe WCM, CRX/CRXDE, CQ WCM, and DAM.  • Define implementation processes, quality gates and standards.  • Developed message driven web services using Spring Integration.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using with Hibernate.  • OSGI bundle development experience.  • Developed GUI using HTML and Java Script.  • Performing analysis using Web Analytics tools such as Adobe Site catalyst (Omniture), new relic.  • Effectively communicate design to customers and present design options/considerations.  • Adopt and utilize iterative/Agile methodology as needed or requested.  • Produce quality work even when under extreme time pressure and deadlines.    Environment: AEM 5.6.1, Adobe CQ5, JAVA, J2EE, OSGI, Spring Integration, HIBERNATE, MYSQL, AJAX, JSON, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQUERY, Jenkins, Maven, SOAP UI, Xpath, XML, LINUX, JSP, Web Services (SOAP, REST), Eclipse, SVN. Front End JavaScript Developer Sprint - Kansas City, MO June 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application, developed using AGILE/Scrum methodology.  • Involved in development of the server side business logic using Action Classes, Action Forms, Helper classes and DAO access layer classes.  • Involved in designing and building automation frameworks in support of continuous integration in a test driven development (TDD).  • Involved in Java/J2ee development using Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring Web Services, and Hibernate.  • Designed and developed user interface using front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, Ajax and AngularJS.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller which Isolate scopes perform operations.  • Utilized AngularJS controllers to control and exchange the data to and from backend and AngularJS scopes to display the data.  • Used the responsive utilities of the Bootstrap frameworks along with CSS media queries to facilitate the design displaying properly on different devices.  • Used standard J2EE design patterns and Model-View-Controller (SpringMVC) in application design.  • Followed three-tier architecture. Developed application using SpringMVC- presentation layer, Spring-Service layer, Spring DAO- persistence layer and Spring Batch.  • Implemented RESTful Web services in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth authentication protocol respectively.  • Used Apache CXF as the Web Services framework to implement the REST APIs involved.    Environment:Java, J2EE, Web Logic, Eclipse , Oracle, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, Eclipse, AngularJS, Spring, BootStrap, JavaScript, HTML, XML, REST, Web Services, PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, JNDI, Ajax, ANT, CVS, Log4J, Unix. Software Developer JP Morgan Chase - Dallas, TX November 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Performed analysis for the client requirements based on the developed detailed design documents.  • Involved in various steps of SDLC such as analysis, design and development of system and developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Designed the user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSPs.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model ViewController (MVC) architecture.  • Developed JSP's with STRUTS custom tags and implemented JavaScript validation of data.  • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, Prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database.  • Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans and AOP for creating the exception handling aspects.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Singleton and Factory.  • Java Message Service (JMS) API is used to allow application components to create, send, receive, and read messages. Involved in developing business tier using stateless session bean.  • Developed STRUTS forms and actions for validation of user request data and application functionality.  • Used JavaScript for the web page validation and StrutsValuator for server side validation  • Designing the database and coding of SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Views using IBMDB2.  • Design patterns of Delegates, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects.  • Developed Message Driven Beans for asynchronous processing of alerts.  • Used Clear case for source code control and JUNIT for unit testing.  • The networks are simulated in real-time using an ns3 network simulator modified for multithreading across multiple cores, which is implemented on generic Linux machine.  • Involved in peer code reviews and performed integration testing of the modules.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, EJB, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, DOM, SAX, ANT, Rationale Rose, WSAD 5.1.2 (Web Sphere Studio Application Developer), IBM Web Sphere Application Server, Hibernate, LOG4J, CVS, Oracle Associate Software Engineer KK Technologies November 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Carried out requirement specification, design, analysis, implementation and testing  • Designed UML Class Diagrams and Use Case Diagrams to understand the code easily.  • Designed and Developed required Manager Classes for database operations  • Developed various Servlets for monitoring the application.  • Designed and developed the front end using HTML and JSP  • Developed XML files, DTDs, Schema's and parsing XML by using both SAX and DOM parser.  • Wrote deployment descriptors using XML and Test java classes for a direct testing of the Session and Entity beans.  • Did Packaging and Deployment of builds through ANT script.  • Wrote stored procedure and used JAVA APIs to call these procedures.  • Database designing that includes defining tables, views, constraints, triggers, sequences, index, and stored procedures.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JMS, DB2, WebSphere, Eclipse, Aqua Data Studio, Windows 2000, XSLT, XML, JavaScript, Web Services, SVN Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, Jboss Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skill-set:    Content Management: AEM6.3/AEM6.2/AEM 6.0,AEM 5.6,CQ 5.5, CQ 5.4 (Apache Sling, JCR, CRX)/ CQ 5.3, CQ5 DAM, CQ Tagging  Web Technologies: XML, HTML, JSON, Linux Shell Script, JQuery, Apache Sling, Jackrabbit, JCR 2.0, Languages: JAVA/J2ee, JavaScript, SQL, Log4J  MVC framework: Spring MVC,Groovy, Grails Apache Sling, Apache Felix.  Application Servers: JBoss, Tomcat, Apache web-server  Build & Release: Jenkins, Bamboo, Ant, Maven  Source Code: Control SVN, Git  Databases & Tools: Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, MySQL Server 2000, 2005 & 2008; IIS 6.0/7.0  IDE: Eclipse, CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, STS  Operating Systems: UNIX, Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP/vista/7/8/10