Sr. Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Developer - CGI India • 9+ years of Professional Experience as a principle Consultant in Client/Server and Web enabled software applications with strong analytical and programming skills. And develop single page web API application.  • Extensive experience in architecting, designing, developing client/server applications using Microsoft .net.  • Source Code Control Systems like Microsoft Visual Source Safe, Team Foundation Server.  • Extensive experience in developing applications on Microsoft .NET platform using Asp.net, C#.net,ADO.net, VB.Net, Linq, Google Maps, Telerik Controls, Entity framework, WEB API,Odata API, Chart Reporting, SSRS , MVC4,WCF, Ajax, JQuery, Durendal js, knockout js, Angular js, bootstrap CSS, HTML-5 binding, Kendo UI and Typescript.  • Knowledge on WPF, Sliver light  • Expertise in MS SQL Server, MS Access, SQL/TSQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views, and Knowledge on Oracle.  • Have undertaken roles and responsibilities at all stages for a full-cycle development of projects  • Proven strength in problem solving, co-ordination & analysis. Strong communication, interpersonal, learning and organizing skills matched with the ability to manage stress, time and people effectively.  • Ability to handle responsibility and deliver tasks. Work Experience Sr. Developer CGI India August 2017 to Present Environment  .Net 4.5, VB.Net, SQL Server2014, MVVM(Single Page application), Entity Frame work, Web API, Odata API, Html5 binding, Kendo UI extends, Typescript, VS 2015, TFS    Project Description  Portfolio Insight is an internet based loan inquiry system for Investors and there designated representatives.  Investors have the ability to view loan information, balance, payment history and billing information's, Loan receivables and Loan documents.  The UI/UX project aims to redesign the Portfolio Insight screens to provide a better user experience in terms of navigation as well as easy of access to information.  Responsibilities:  • Developed key module using the MVVM, Entity frame work, Web Api, Odata, Kendo UI and SQL Server 2014.  • Involved in analysis, design, and development phases of the project.  • Involved in database design and DB objects creation as the sprint progresses.  • Create tasks in TFS for updating the status in sprints.  • Participated in daily scrum calls for Status Reporting and sprint planning call to plan the sprint backlog    2. Project Name: Borrower Insight Sr. Software Engineer CGI India - HYDERABAD, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN August 2016 to Present Worked as a App. Software DEV. PRIN. CNSLT in NTTDATA GLOBAL DELIVERY SERVICES, HYDERABAD from SEP-2013 to Aug-2016.  ? Worked as a Sr. Software Engineer in INFOTECH ENTERPRISES PVT.LTD, HYDERABAD from DEC-2011 to SEP-2013  ? Worked as a Software Engineer in INTELLIGROUP ASIA PVT.LTD, HYDERABAD from MAY-2010 to DEC - 2011  ? Worked as a software engineer in NIHA COMMUNICATIONS PVT.LTD, HYDERABAD from JAN-2009 to MAY-2010.    Technical Skills    Operating Systems Windows Xp, Windows 98, Win 2003 Server, Windows 7, Windows 8  Databases MS Sql Server 2005/2008/2010/2012, Oracle 10g  Programming Languages C#.Net, VB.Net, Linq, Entity framework, SSRS, MVC4.0, Web Api, Odata, Typescript extends, WCF knowledge on WPF, Silverlight  Scripting Languages Java Script, Ajax, JQuery, knockout js, Durendal js, Angular js, Typescript, Grunt  Ides, Tools & Utilities .Net Framework 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, VSS, TFS.  Design Languages ASP.Net, HTML, HTML 5, XML, CSS, Bootstrap CSS, MVVM, MVC, MPC, Kendo UI  Web Server Used IIS 7.0  Domain Knowledge  E-commerce, Social Networking, Real Estate, Supply Chain Forecast and Show Google map weather forecast, Web Tools, Aerospace manufacturing, Retirement Employee Insurance(Finance), Wealth Management And Banking Sr. Developer CGI India October 2016 to July 2017 Environment  .Net 4.5, VB.Net, SQL Server2014, MVVM(Single Page application), Entity Frame work, Web API, Odata API, Html5 binding, Kendo UI extends, Typescript, VS 2015, TFS    Project Description  Borrower Insight is an internet based loan inquiry system for Borrowers and there designated representatives.  Borrowers have the ability to view loan information, balance, payment history and billing information's.  The UI/UX project aims to redesign the Borrower Insight screens to provide a better user experience in terms of navigation as well as easy of access to information.  Responsibilities:  • Developed key module using the MVVM, Entity frame work, Web Api, Odata, Kendo UI and SQL Server 2014.  • Involved in analysis, design, and development phases of the project.  • Involved in database design and DB objects creation as the sprint progresses.  • Create tasks in TFS for updating the status in sprints.  • Participated in daily scrum calls for Status Reporting and sprint planning call to plan the sprint backlog    3. Project Name (DPMC)Deloitte Performance Management Consulting Sr. Developer Deloitte February 2015 to October 2016 Sr. Developer Deloitte December 2015 to July 2016 Developer Deloitte August 2014 to January 2015 Environment  Visual Studio 2012 ( .Net F/W - 4.5) , Html 5, Angular.js, Bootstrap Web API (MVC4), C#.Net, Linq, Web Services, SSRS, Sql Server 2012 (client side object model)    Project Description  Deloitte offers a rewards program that recognizes employees for their significant achievements, outstanding performance, length of service, and promotions as identified by the Talent Services organization. The application provides the ability to administer the Rewards and Recognition program and provide a payroll feed for payment of monetary awards and associated tax gross-ups.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in html5 designing the views and view Models for UI using extensively angular js, web api controllers(mvc4)(MVVM Design)  • Creating Models and Repositories for accessing the database.  • Involved in writing the required Stored Procedures.  • Involved in writing the client side object model process. Developer PW - IT May 2013 to August 2014 Environment Visual Studio 2010 ( .Net F/W - 4.0) , Sql Server 2008    Project Description  (ITAR Export Log Tool): To create a log of all export activities occurring at P&W Military Engines. Leverage the existing IT tools that record and log exports with a single database that records and reports on the aggregate of all export activities. Create a web entry screen to capture manual and in person exports. Create an electronic handshake to allow other IT tools to record their export events as part of standard work in sub-sequent phases of the project. Produce ITC mandated reports based on the sum of export events.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design and Architecture of GUI Interface using extensively MVC4, C#.Net, LINQ, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JavaScript, JQuery.  • Using WCF for connectivity for database.  • Involved in writing the required Stored Procedures.  • Involved in reports exportable to PPT and excel Using Open XML and export excel and validation against xsd.    7. Project Name (License Owner Database- LOD) Developer Deloitte October 2013 to July 2014 Environment  Visual Studio 2012 ( .Net F/W - 4.5) , Html 5, knockout js, Durenda js, Bootstrap, Web API (MVC4), C#.Net, Linq, Web Services, Sql Server 2012 (client side object model)    Project Description  Lifecycle planner is the replacement for the current Retirement Planner (Foresight Planner). It provides a modeling tool for partners, director and employees of Deloitte-US to model their cash flow and wealth accumulation up to and beyond retirement. Projections can be exported to send to financial planners.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in html5 designing the views and view Models for UI using extensively knockout js, durendal js, web api controllers(mvc4)(MVVM Design)  • Creating Models and Repositories for accessing the database.  • Involved in writing the required Stored Procedures.  • Involved in writing the client side object model process.    6. Project Name (ITAR Export Log Tool) Developer PW - IT January 2013 to May 2013 Environment Visual Studio 2010 ( .Net F/W - 4.0) , Sql Server 2008    Project Description  (License Owner Database) LOD: The License Owner database will provide the licensing management group and export control the ability to know that a license owner has been terminated and a license is now without a custodian. It provides the ability to send notifications to users, License Owners, License Managers, License requestors and License POCs. This system will provide a central repository for all license owners training history.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design and Architecture of GUI Interface using extensively MVC4, C#.Net, LINQ, Entity framework, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JavaScript, JQuery.  • Using Ling to Sql concepts for Entity framework.  • Involved in writing the required Stored Procedures.  • Involved in reports exportable to PPT and excel Using Open XML and export excel and validation against xsd. Developer PW - IT January 2012 to November 2012 Duration JAN - 2012 To Nov - 2012  Environment Visual Studio 2010 ( .Net F/W - 4.0) , Sql Server 2008    Project Description  (Partner valuation & Contribution system) PVCS is a web application that develops the aerospace bom manufacturing and calculation of partner contribution Cost an estimated cost in next forecasting, and then validates the partner wise target costs.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design and Architecture of GUI Interface using extensively ASP.Net, C#.Net, LINQ HTML, CSS, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Did coding using WCF extensively.  • Participated in the client meetings and made requirements analysis (Preparation of FDS, TDS documents).  • Involved in writing the required Stored Procedures.  • Involved in reports exportable to PPT and excel Using Open XML.    THIRUPATHI.V Management application TFS 2012 to 2012 2012    Project Description  DPMC is the replacement for the Deloitte performance Management application (Internal). It provides a viewing and editing tool for consulting employees of Deloitte-US to two different areas representing main sections in DPM-C (Administration and User Site). Each of these areas has its own Controllers and Views. In this application work flow model is dived in to three phases like Goal Setting, Mid-year touch point, Year-end touch point.  Responsibilities:  • Developed key module using the MVC 4, Entity frame work and SQL Server 2012.  • Involved in analysis, design, and development phases of the project.  • Involved in database design and DB objects creation as the sprint progresses.  • Created package for uploading data from different source into the system by using SSIS  • Create tasks in TFS for updating the status in sprints.  • Participated in daily scrum calls for Status Reporting and sprint planning call to plan the sprint backlog    3. Project Name (Wealth Management) Planner TFS 2012 to 2012 2012    Project Description  Wealth Management is the replacement for the current wealth Planner. It provides a viewing tool for partners, director and employees of Deloitte-US to view their consolidated and detail cash flow and wealth accumulation from different account up to retirement.  Responsibilities:  • Developed key module using the Angular JS, HTML5 and SQL Server 2012.  • Involved in analysis, design, and development phases of the project.  • Involved in database design and DB objects creation as the sprint progresses.  • Created package for uploading data from different source into the system by using SSIS  • Create tasks in TFS for updating the status in sprints.  • Participated in daily scrum calls for Status Reporting and sprint planning call to plan the sprint backlog    4. Project Name (Rewards and Recognition) Additional Information Key strengths    ? 9+ yrs.' of experience in Microsoft .NET Technologies.  ? Working experience in transitioning projects to offshore.  ? Working experience in web based and windows based applications.  ? Strong programming fundamentals and analytical skills.  ? Working knowledge with large number of developments & test cases  ? Experience mentoring developer members and end users