Senior Java / J2EE Developer Senior Java / J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java / J2EE Developer - PROFFESIONAL EXPEREIENCE Santa Monica, CA • Highly motivated, creative & versatile IT professional with 8+ years of experience in design and development of client/server applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Extensive experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) including requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation, deployment and support of applications.  • Strong database connectivity skills which include Oracle, MYSQL, and DB2 and in programming with SQL, PL/SQL.  • Participates in Agile and Scrum Methodology with daily stand-ups, weekly planning games and retrospectives.  • Insight into Java/J2EE technologies such as Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, spring, Hibernate.  • Broad knowledge and hands on experience in Web development using HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Jque  • ry, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node.JS.  • Expertise in frame works like spring, Hibernate, Struts and JSF.  • Executes Restful Web services using Spring MVC Rest frameworks.  • Involved in creating and consuming SOAP based and Restful web services using WSDL, JAX-WS, SOAP UI, JAX-RS and JERSEY framework.  • Experienced in working with Jenkins for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD).  • Involved in automated testing using Selenium, Unit, Testing frameworks.  • Experience in using application servers like Tomcat, Web sphere and Glass Fish.  • Experience in implementing persistence layer using JDBC, Spring Dao and Hibernate.  • Implemented MVC Frameworks such as spring MVC.  • Extensively working on XML, DTD, XML Schema, XSL, Path, DOM, and SOAP.  • Exposure to different IDE's like Eclipse, IntelliJ and Net Beans.  • Supported Testers with Unit Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing.  • Familiar with JBoss Web Application server.  • Significant knowledge of Google Web Toolkit.  • Highly organized with the ability to prioritize workload, manage multiple tasks and meet project deadlines by following project standards and routines as per customer specs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java / J2EE Developer PROFFESIONAL EXPEREIENCE - Santa Monica, CA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Developed spring daemons for different modules involved in the process of publishing documents.  • Participated in Scrum Meetings.  • Developed High level and detailed level design documents based on business requirements provided.  • Designed interactive static HTML using HTML5 and CSS3 as screen level prototype, JavaScript for client side validation.  • Used core JAVA to implement data Structures including linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, hash tables and different sorting and searching algorithms.  • Used RESTFUL in conjunction with Ajax calls using JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Designed and developed the Application using spring and hibernate frame work.  • Enable DS Authentication for the web Service APIs' to make it accessible only for valid users by using spring Interceptors.  • Implement Spring AOP for logging to avoid code redundancy  • Developed DAO and service layers using the Spring Dao support and hibernate ORM mappings.  • Created interactive websites and website features using JavaScript and Jquery/Jquery UI.  • Develop Unit test cases for all the functional flows in the application, Passes all test cases successfully.  • Developed and implemented spring and J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller).  • Handled response data from RESTFUL web services using XML, JSON andJqueryto update UI Interacted with java controllers (Jquery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Used Eclipse IDE for development, configured and deployed the application using ANT, and tested using JUnit.  • Developed several REST web services supporting both XML and JSON to perform tasks such as remote thermostat and demand-response management. Restful web services leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  • Created Jenkins jobs and running the jobs to check for any build issues.  • Environment: Java 1.7, JavaScript, Spring 4.0.5.x, Hibernate3.x, JUnit, Eclipse, Tomcat, UNIX, Oracle, JSF , HTML, XML, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.0, Log4j, Web Sphere 6.1, REST Services, Angular JS, Jquery, Jenkins, JAX-RS,JAX-WS. Sr. Java Developer Safeway - Pleasanton, CA July 2015 to December 2017 • Safeway is an American Supermarket chain, it is the second largest supermarket chain in North America and has 1,678 stores located throughout the western and central United States and northwestern Mexico as of December. It also operates some stores in the Mid-Atlantic region of the Eastern Seaboard. The company is headquartered in Pleasanton, CA. Supermarket News ranked Safeway No. 4 in the 2011 Gathered client's requirements coordinated with different departments.  • Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and tested using n-tier J2EE architecture in BEA Weblogic Application Server  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts Action framework.  • Developed EJBs [Stateless Session Beans and Entity beans] for Savings, Credit Card, Loan, Current account and Mortgage modules.  • Developed web services framework for retrieving User details using Axis  • Implemented Acegi security for all modules in product which require user authentication and authorization. Password encryption using SRP protocol.  • Designed and developed important application functionalities Download and Install session module for this product.  • Developed Persistence and DAO layer implementation using EJB 3.0 ORM for the domain objects involved.  • Development of content management as Struts MVC on OpenCms [on Jboss] for web commerce department.  • Wrote many unit tests using JUnit and Easy Mock to cover existing functionality and provide a baseline for expansion.  • Designed and developed the Internal Admin module of the product using Struts MVC where the administer can login and configure the product specific configurations to start remote desktop session.  • Used OO JavaScript and CSS for UI Design Mockup. Written code in JQuery/JavaScript /CSS /AJAX for the navigation oriented application.  • Designed and developed interfaces using Design Patterns (Like Command, Singleton, Factory, and Controller) in OO JavaScript.  • Created Dynamic Integration of jQuery Tab, JQuery Grid, and other jQuery component Integration with Ajax.  • Extensively used JQuery plug-in like Auto populating select-box, Search plug-in, calendar plug-in, ajax-queue plug-in, and Auto populating multiple select-boxes.  • Implemented Ajax Call, when the user keys in the first few characters of mesh node entries an AJAX call is made and all the matching node entries are retrieved from database as a JSON Payload and displayed in a dropdown list box.  • Used Tiles for setting the header, footer and navigation and Apache Validator Framework for Form validation.  • Used Log4J logging framework to write Log messages with various levels.  • Created library class for financial calculations of various financial issues like Mortgage, Loans etc.  • Used JavaMail API, developed Secured Emailing system [a session bean].  • Involved in fixing bugs and minor enhancements for the front-end modules  • Used JUnit framework for writing Test Classes.  • Used Ant for starting up the application server in various modes.  • Used Visual Source Safe for version control.  • Environment: Java (JDK 1.5), JSP, Servlets, Struts MVC, Struts2, Spring IOC, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, HTML, CSS, XML, XSTL, DHTML, Design Patterns, Eclipse, CVS, Apache Tomcat 5.5, JDBC, Oracle 9i/10g, Rational Rose, Xml Spy, UNIX, Windows-XP. Software Developer Bank of America - Calabasas, CA December 2013 to June 2015 CPIEC (Corporate Payments Import-Export & Consolidation) caters to the payment related functionality of the bank for Corporate and Individual customers. The customer can make payment instruction to the bank using CPIEC. Payment instruction can be created for both domestic and international payments. These instructions are processed at the bank and payment is made to the beneficiary.    Responsibilities:  • Used Object Oriented Design and Object Oriented Programming concepts like Polymorphism, Inheritance, Interfaces, Generics and Collections.  • Extensively involved in design and implementation of front-end User Interface development using HTML, DOM, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Java script and perl scripting, JQuery, Dojo and AJAX.  • Created HTML and JSP's for Graphical User Interface.  • Identified and implemented the user actions (Struts Action classes) and forms (Struts Form classes) as a part of Struts framework.  • Used Struts-Tiles as reusable components for JSP's and developed user views using custom tags from JSP's and data validation using Struts for easy expendability of the project.  • Used TDD software development methodology.  • The controller uses XML mappings in Struts to map the request to the server side functionality.  • Used Stateless Session Beans (EJB) in session façade and for implementing business logic.  • Used and Message Driven Beans (MDB EJBs) for sending Payment messages to backend servers to process the payment.  • Created ANT build file for deploying the application on the server.  • Extensively developed the application user Interface using JSP custom tags and JSTL.  • Used PL/SQL, Stored Procedures for handling Database in Oracle.  • Used SOA concepts to implement Web Services integration.  • Used Hibernate framework to deal with the all database related transactions.  • Developed the Maven build scripts for building the EAR file and used Eclipse as an IDE.  • Used Apache Log4J logging API to log errors and messages.  • Worked with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment, integration and conducted walk -thru code reviews.  • Worked closely with various interfacing teams for smooth and bug free delivery of application under mission critical time lines  • Involved in solving the production issues and coordinated with the off-shore team.  Environment: Java 1.6, Apache Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, JSP 2.0, Servlets, Web services, HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, XSLT, XSD, PL/SQL, JQuery, Jboss, Oracle 11i, Maven, Eclipse, Log4J, UNIX, Windows XP. Software Developer SPi Global - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Redesigned the existing site and to create new interfaces.  • Developed HTML prototypes and ready XHTML documents with CSS style sheets.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Followed the Agile and Scrum development methodologies.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Did Cross - Browser coding, for making pages compatible will all browsers.  • Designed Banners, Icons and Logos.  • Experience in User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Produced GUI prototypes for business logic presentations.  • Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects.    Environment: HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Agile and Windows. Education Bachelors of Technology in Technology Beach 2008 Bachelor in Engineering in Engineering Anna University Skills Java 1.7, JavaScript, Spring 4.0.5.x, Hibernate3.x, JUnit, Eclipse, Tomcat, UNIX, Oracle, JSF , HTML, XML, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.0, Log4j, Web Sphere 6.1, REST Services, Angular JS, Jquery, Jenkins, JAX-RS,JAX-WS (8 years)