Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Orion FCU Cordova, TN Put forth software that is flexible, secure, and snappy with a low time cost to maintain. Interactions through a user experience that is inviting, remember-able and robust. Work Experience Software Developer Orion FCU - Memphis, TN 2018 to Present 1 year  Task: Scope, own and maintain in-house software built on top of KeyStone using JavaScript ES6 and ExtJS 3. Along with ASP.NET C#7 and MSSQL for internal tracking systems. Re-wrote their flagship in-house software New Loan to have structure and follow the Event Driven programming practice. This eased the amount of time for new features to be built, correction of all bugs and an intuitive UI. Scope and creation of software built on top of KeyStone to track the type of calls that come into the Call Center. As well as build reports based on the information collected for management. Scope, write and change Java programs used in generating reports using information in a IBM DB2 environment. Programmer Analyst CUTEK - Boerne, TX 2017 to 2018 1 year  Task: Working with a client to understand their goal, custom PowerOns, SymForm and SymFormPDF creation. Vault / Warehouse Loomis - Fayetteville, AR 2014 to 2016 Intake materials that come into the branch that were picked up from merchants that come off trucks that run a route.   Build orders prior to the day that the routes need the materials for merchants.  Secure and watch materials within and outside for the physical building with cameras, double docked doors, man traps and firearms.  Help with routes that need to slip their workload to another truck to complete their route on time before merchants close for the day. Education B.S. in Computer Science University of Arkansas - Fayetteville, AR 2012 to 2016 High school or equivalent in Technology Beebe High School - Beebe, AR 2005 to 2009 Corelation Developer Seminar in KeyStone and ExtJS 3 Corelation Headquartes - San Diego, CA Skills Asp, Css, Asp.net, nginx, Visual studio, C++, Html, Javascript, Oop, Php, Python, Software development, Svn, Java, Mysql, Sql, Apache, Linux, Uml, Windows 10 Additional Information SKILLS   • Tech Support - 2 Year  • Programming Language Experience  ? C++ 5 Years  ? Java 3 Years  ? Python 2 Years  ? PowerOn 1 Year  ? SQL 2 Year  ? HTML, CSS 3 Years  ? JavaScript 4 Years  ? C#7 ASP.NET Core 1 Year  • Programing Architectural style - RESTful, OOP, Procedural, Recursive  • Run-time Environments - Windows XP - Windows 10, Linux  • Programming Methodologies - Agile, TDD, Waterfall  • Software Development Tool Experience - Visual Studio 2012-2019, SVN, Modelio UML Editor, WinMerge, Fiddler, git, NetBeans, ExtJS, DBVisualizer, Firefox Dev  • Server Software Experience - Apache, Nginx w/ php-fpm, MySQL, GitLab  • Writing Skills - Ability to efficiently produce concise, organized reports and labs.  • Software Development - Ability to efficiently read software documentation and theses.  • Analytical Skills - Take in information from non-technical personnel and give responses that are actionable within the time of the meeting or sit-down.