Applications Developer II Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> II Applications Developer II - University Federal Credit Union Austin, TX 7+ years of experience as a full stack .NET developer looking to add to my resume. I'm a great problem  solver who enjoys working with developers and end-users to find the best solutions for them. I've  designed, built, tested, and deployed numerous apps and am driven to use proven techniques and  practices as well as exploring new technologies to improve on my programs. Although .NET is where I  am most proficient I am steadily gaining experience in technologies such as Python for various uses like  web-scraping, data-analytics, and machine learning as well as front-end frameworks like React for  modern web experiences and am looking to work more of this into my professional experience. Work Experience Applications Developer II University Federal Credit Union - Austin, TX November 2018 to Present Worked on multiple apps using React, .Net Core, MVC, and Restful Web APIs using modern  development standards such as IoC, Dependency Injection, factory and repository patterns, and SOLID principles.  • Developed solution for fraudulent credit card purchases to be reissued to our customers  • Created app to allow internal users to make SSH requests to control security cameras  throughout our bank branches.  • Deployed our Web API and front-end app using Azure DevOps.  • Learned procedural coding language PowerOn specific to our banking software to maintain and develop features for our internal banking system.  • Worked with third-party API's to transmit sensitive member information through our banking  software. Software Developer Insights Learning and Development - Austin, TX February 2016 to November 2018 • Worked with global team to develop and maintain our CRM application used world-wide.  • Developed new features from start to finish, sometimes in small teams and sometimes  individually. Was responsible for carrying out projects through initial feature planning, sprint  creation, development, all the way to release.  • Used testing frameworks such as NUnit for unit testing and Selenium for browser testing.  • Updated SQL Server database regularly including localized text content updates, user data  correction, table creation/alteration, etc.  • Worked on a few front-end Javascript-heavy projects.  • Updated privacy features to make our site GDPR compliant.  • Created an Email API used by multiple in-house applications to track outgoing email messages to our clients and product facilitators.  • Re-worked new user login workflow to be more secure and user-friendly.  • Updated multiple outdated third-party libraries across our codebase making it easier to develop  new features, minimize security flaws, and increase performance.  • Used TFS to track work tasks, version control source code, and merge to and from main branch  of source code.  • Fixed reported bugs and worked support desk between major projects.  • Documented bug fixes and new features in our team wiki.  • Lead a weekly scrum to highlight goal progress and general work-related discussion.  • Organized monthly game competitions to increase morale across the Austin office.  • Office karaoke champion. ASP.NET Developer Trinity Healthcare Resources - Bee Cave, TX September 2015 to December 2015 • Part of two-man development team working on an ASP.NET MVC application which provided a platform for Medicare and Medicaid to audit healthcare data received from hospitals.  • Responsible for safe and secure work with sensitive patient/hospital data.  • Worked on upgrading and optimizing business logic and data layer using NHibernate.  • Upgraded web front end using HTML5, CSS3, and jQuery. Upgraded page controls to use new  .Net 4.5 features. ASP.NET Developer Texas Education Agency - Austin, TX April 2014 to September 2015 Worked with small development team on about eight web applications used by the state of Texas education system. Applications focused on maintaining and tracking students and  educational programs across the state.  • Applications were a combination of ASP.NET and Classic ASP with SQL Server back-ends.  • Wrote SQL scripts and stored procedures using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Worked with QAs to find, debug, and correct code and database schema/data issues.  • Developed and maintained SAP Crystal Reports used for reporting data.  • Worked with deployment teams to release new code updates through four levels of deployment. Lead ASP.NET Developer and SQL Server Database Engineer Digital Touch Systems - Austin, TX August 2012 to April 2014 Worked with small global development team from in office and remotely. Was the lead web  developer and SQL database administrator after just one year on the project.  • Set up web domains, SSL certificates, Windows Server 2012 cloud servers, and hosted cloud  websites through Rackspace's Cloud Control Panel.  • Completely overhauled our web app's user interface with a new layout and CSS styling.  • Integrated Amazon Web Services, Subtledata and other third-party APIs into our cotent  management website.  • Migrated our ORM from LINQ to SQL to Entity Framework.  • Communicated with beta-users troubleshooting our company's applications and getting  feedback on further development of our back end website.  • Displayed and demoed our product at tech tradeshows including SXSW.  • Created SQL stored procedures to aggregate advertisement reporting data to help cut data  storage costs and increase web app performance. Education B.B.A. in Management of Information Systems in Management, Finance, Accounting, Statistics Texas A&M University - College Station, TX May 2012 Skills Ado, Ado.net, Sql server, Pl/i, Sql, .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, C++, Front-end, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, .net core, Vs code, Python, Svn, Ajax Additional Information Skills  Front-end: React, JavaScript, jQuery, JSX, Bootstrap, HTML 5, CSS 3, AJAX  Languages and Frameworks: C#, Python, C++, .NET Core, ASP.NET MVC, Web API (RESTful), SQL, Entity  Framework / EF Core, ADO.NET, NHibernate, NUnit, Autofac, SSH, PowerOn (Based on PL/I)  Software and tools: Visual Studio, VS Code, Jupyter Notebook, Git, Team Foundation Server, SQL Server,  SQL Server Management Studio, Postman, Redgate SQL tools, Merant Tracker, Tortoise SVN, Serena  Version Manager, Epysis (UFCU banking software)