Salesforce Developer/Lightning Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Lightning Salesforce Developer/Lightning - Healthfirst New York, NY • Over 7+ years of IT experience that includes 5 years of experience in Salesforce CRM Platform and around 2 years of experience with Java and other programming languages.  • Good knowledge in all phases of SDLC including requirements gathering and analysis through project Design, Development, Testing, Implementation, Deployment and Maintenance.  • Good experience in developing Salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers and Events.  • Have extensive experience in implementation of Custom Objects, Custom Tabs and Role based Page Layouts and Record Types.  • Implemented Security setting across the organization using Roles, sharing settings, Profiles and Permission sets, setting login hour, and IP ranges.  • Extensive knowledge in implementing various advanced fields like Pick lists, Custom Formula Fields, Sales process, Lead process, Record types, Look up and Master-Detail relationships.  • Hands on experience in implementing Validation Rules, Assignment Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates & Email generation according to application requirements.  • Excellent understanding of CRM business processes like Campaign Management, Lead Management, Account and contact Management, Case Management, and Call Center.  • Excellent understanding on Object oriented concepts and have experience working on Java to Salesforce Integration using WSC.  • Strong Database (RDBMS) development experience in writing queries, functions, stored procedures, triggers, and views in Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL and MS Access.  • Experience in modifying visual force pages to be supported in Lightning Experience and good understanding of lightning mode and its features.  • Experienced in integrating Salesforce and other applications using SOAP and REST API Web services and outbound messaging.  • Performed data analysis for data migration, integration to Salesforce from other Data bases using Data Loader, Import/ Export Wizard.  • Written apex unit test classes for Trigger, Apex classes to meet 75% of code coverage to migrate to Production instances.  • Good working experience with Eclipse IDE, Force.com Plug-in, Developer console and Force.com Explorer environment.  • Strong experience in deploying Salesforce components across various sandbox and production instance using Change Sets, Force.com Migration tool and Eclipse.  • Experience in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, Angular JS, WSDL and SOAP.  • Used visual force, Apex, Java, JavaScript and other technologies to build customized solutions that support critical business solutions. Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Lightning Healthfirst - New York, NY May 2017 to Present The major business of which is providing hospitality to customers implements SFDC to automate the CRM business processes to support their changing sales strategies. The SFDC platform is tailored for improving the coordination in the global market. Creating a CRM applications & automation along with Dealers, Contacts, Dealer Commitments & Metrics, Reports and Dash boards. The Data Migrated using data loader. An ETL tool performed data loading from external systems to SFDC and SFDC to external system.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Lightning components and Lightning apps to provide better and more interactive interfaces to end users, which help in sales enhancements.  • Design and develop integrations between Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other applications/systems such as Datawarehouse, JDE, custom applications, and other applications.  • Experienced in migrating the standard and custom objects in standard experience to lightning experience.  • Created multiple Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters that makes the Lightning component look and feel better.  • Extensively worked on VF pages to Lightning Components, URL buttons to quick actions, lightning Record, Home, App pages, lightning Tabs.  • Implemented Salesforce Lightning Components for small set of users within the organization.  • Used field level security along with page layouts in Lightning to manage access to certain fields.  • Developed single page Applications using Lightning Homepage, Lightning record page, lightning Application page with lightning app builder.  • Used eclipse Force.com toolkit for creating Apex classes and Apex Triggers.  • Extension Classes to support Visualforce pages development, Test Classes for Unit testing and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Project experience with Salesforce Lightning and hands on with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Used SOQL&SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database object.  • Created Visual force and HTML Email templates to be sent to the customers depending on the action they perform after they log into the portal.  • Used REST API callouts / WSDL (SOAP API) for connecting to the services hosted by third party companies to perform an action by connecting to their respective repositories and sending the request on demand.  • Worked with Chatter which helps the users to communicate with the organization easily and quickly.  • Used Salesforce1 simulator during the development to test if the lightning components works properly on the mobile device.  • Involved in Data Migration Activities to handle bulk loads using APEX Data Loader.  • Installed salesforce Lightning inspector for chrome browser as an extension for debugging JavaScript code.  • Used Jenkins as the continuous integration tool for the application development.  • Used SVN and migrated to GIT as the version control tool.  • Created test scenarios on Sandbox environment and migrated code to deployment upon successful testing.  Environment: Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Deployments, Lightning components, Apex, Visual Force, Data Loader, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader, SF Eclipse IDE Plug-in, AppExchange apps, SOAP and REST API. Salesforce Developer CVS - Rhode Island March 2016 to April 2017 Healthfirst is one of the largest health insurance companies in USA. The salesforce CRM application implemented for enabling the sales team to keep track of their customers, their contact information and their opportunities in pipeline. Responsible for maintenance of salesforce.com Production Environment and Development Environments to ensure that all business information systems are functioning in support of immediate and long-term business objectives.    Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Implemented Inbound Email Handler interface for creation of records in Salesforce based on the Email received using Apex class.  • Developed various Batch Apex classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable classes on hourly basis.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Developed Visual Force Pages to show customized content for certain things according to client need.  • Written complex relationship SOQL, SOSL queries in Apex Classes, Batch Processes Triggers to retrieve data from standard and custom objects.  • Integrated external applications with Salesforce.com both Inbound and Outbound by writing Apex SOAP and REST Web Services and Apex Callouts.  • Handled data flow between salesforce and multiple external systems through integrations and data imports/exports.  • Worked on data integration, data clearing, data transfer from third party API's with requested permission sets using APEX data loader.  • Experience in upgrading some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Upgraded functionalities from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Configured Chatter to track emails from Outlook to Salesforce by following a user.  • Used the Lightning App Builder to customize the Lightning Experience and Salesforce1 Mobile app.  • Created custom Dashboards for manager's home page and gave accessibility to dashboards for authorized people.  • Involved in daily standup meetings, Scrum. This resulted to bring good solution to the business requirement.  • Used Debugger making use of Breakpoints to monitor data movement and troubleshoot the mappings.  • Implemented Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case entry and manual case entry for entering customer's cases in Cases Tab.  • Used Eclipse IDE with Force.com plug-in for setting up Sandbox and deploying the changes to Production.  • Worked with various CRM applications like Salesforce.com, Sales Cloud, Custom Cloud, Reporting and Analytics of Sales, Service and Custom Cloud, Application on Code backup.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, CRM, Visual Force, Pages, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox Data loader, Eclipse IDE, Lightning. Salesforce Administrator/ Developer Nat soft Corp - Somerset, NJ, US January 2015 to February 2016 Bank of West delivers high quality solutions to meet business needs for those departments using salesforce, as well as building the interfaces and tools to integrate new departments into salesforce. This project includes development, configuration, testing, provides continuous improvement of the salesforce tools for all user groups such as sales, marketing, software support and other internal teams.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with standard salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, and Campaigns etc.  • Designed and developed the Custom Objects, Page Layouts, Custom tabs, Components based on the requirements.  • Configured Creating Roles, Security Access, Profiles, Email Services, Page Layouts, Workflow Alerts, Actions, and Approval Processes.  • Used Data Loader (insert, update more than 50,000 records) and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com objects to create custom layouts as per client requirements.  • Override a standard Salesforce page layout with Visualforce Page by using Apex Code.  • Created APEX custom controllers implementing complex code for retrieval from Sales Force to VF pages.  • Developed APEX triggers, Classes, Test methods, Visual Force pages to implement the custom functionality.  • Developer Visualforce Page with standard and custom controllers also developed Apex triggers to update fields and objects.  • Used SOQL and SOSL with in governor limits for data manipulation needs of the application using Force.com Explorer.  • Maintained an E-mail to Case system with auto-notifications sent to users when a case is created for their  respective department.  • Handled SOAP/Restful Web services consumption for fetching content from the Internal Web server.  • Migrated complex Excel validation rules in regular expression into Salesforce validation rules.  • Followed Agile methodology for the execution of day to day work related activities.  • Developed a custom Chatter app used by top-level executives to collaborate, share and secure contents.  • Developed Apex Classes Triggers to implement the business logic as per the requirements.  • Created different type fields like formula, checkbox, picklist, Date/Time, checkboxes, Numbers, currency depending upon customer needs also troubleshoot the formula fields using different tools.    Environment: SalesForce.com, Page Layouts, Workflows, Approval Processes, OWD, Profiles, Dashboards, Reports, Apex classes, Apex Triggers, Visual force, SOQL, SOSL, Data loader, Custom Fields, Validation Rules. Salesforce Administrator Bank of West - Tempe, Arizona, US September 2013 to November 2014 This project is developed to fulfill their business needs in Sales, Marketing and Call Center. Salesforce CRM Call Center was deployed for customer and operational support users in the field. Salesforce CRM made it easy to develop unique customer cases and its own set of rules for escalations, notifications and approvals.    Responsibilities:  • Administered organization's salesforce CRM focusing on data integrity, user support and training for 40+ users.  • Streamlined call center workflows by redesigning the call logging screen & creating a manger's reporting dashboard.  • Utilized sharing rules, groups and roles to open up data restricted via OWD settings. Modified object/field permissions to restrict user visibility.  • Created record types and page layouts to accommodate unique views of the data based on department feedback.  • Responsible for creating Queues, Workflows rules and tasks to share and automate work to the users in the Queue.  • Utilized the Process Builder to bypass the inability to use Workflow Rules to create Events after certain criteria have been met on a record.  • Extensively using Data Loader for insert, updates, and bulk import for Accounts, Contacts, Leads and Opportunities.  • Developed various picklists, formula fields, master-detail relationships, lookup relationships and custom report types.  • Using Apex Data Loader mapped data sources and loaded data into Call Center application.  • Added users to the call center application and also integrated Softphone CTI to the users which was developed by developers.  • Configured and used standard reports, custom reports and custom report types. Used dashboards and dashboard components to display data for users.    Environment: SalesForce.com CRM Application Platform, Page Layouts, Workflows, Approval Processes, OWD, Profiles, Dashboards, Reports, Eclipse, Call center, Object relationships, Data loader. Software Developer Sonata Software Solution Ltd August 2012 to August 2013 The project is to provide simple, secure and scalable solutions to help connect, mobilize, manage and promote their business by keeping track of their customers and their bundles, designing and developing the web pages for their network, resolving the code and database related issues, database operations and maintaining their database.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked with business analysts to understand the business models and goals and help define strategy, content and features.  • Used JavaScript, CSS, and HTML to create the front-end screens of the module.  • Used UI Development using HTML, and coded Java components which Retrieves data using SQL from Oracle database.  • Managed connectivity using JDBC for querying/inserting & data management including triggers and stored procedures for Oracle database.  • Interacted with the clients to get site-specific requirements and perform analysis and design for client specific requirements.  • Designed and developed User Interface using JSP, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript libraries to create slider and page-turning animations on calendar widgets.  • Implemented Struts Validators framework to validate the data and implemented Web services with Apache Axis.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Java Script, HTML, CSS, JDBC, JSP, Eclipse. Software Developer Cenetric software solution Ltd June 2011 to July 2012 Project Description: As a part of travel insurance company involved in developing web portals for different departments like Claims, Underwriters, Marketing and Human Resources.  Responsibilities:  • Created website layout/user interface by using standard HTML/CSS practices  • Responsible for content and UI development and Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using JavaScript.  • Used jQuery UI to create Draggable, Droppable, and Selectable elements and implement features such as sliders, light box, menus, and other intuitive features.  • Developed HTML prototypes and XHTML documents with CSS style sheets.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Worked closely with the programmers and graphic designers for project requirement and analysis.  • Did Cross-Browser coding, for making pages compatible will all browsers.  • Utilized JavaScript and jQuery to improve overall design and UI of campaign websites.  • Used Jasmine framework with Karma to write tests cases and performed end-to-end testing.  • Used Ajax, XML with jQuery for request data and response processing.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, SASS, LESS, AJAX. Education Bachelor's