Software Engineer/Salesforce Developer/Admin <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer/Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin Software Engineer/Salesforce Developer/Admin - Salesforce Boise, ID Over 11+ years of experience in IT with experience in JAVA and Salesforce experience as an Administrator and Developer on integrating enterprise applications using Force.com, Visual Force, and Apex with Salesforce customization, security access, workflow approvals, and support administration in salesfore.com CRM.  ? Experienced in implementing Visual force pages, Apex class, standard Salesforce configuration which include Workflow rules, Validation rules, Assignment rules, Page layouts, Record types, etc.  ? Experienced in building Custom objects, Reports, Dashboards and Tabs.  ? Proficient in understanding of Salesforce.com CRM and its Development life cycle, migration of Sales, Service clouds, Communities and Force.com platform.  ? Salesforce.com CRMimplementations involving training, business process configuration, solution design, reporting, and data migration.  ? Experience in SFDC development using Apex classes, Triggers, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, SOQL, and SOSL.  ? Experience in Salesforce Lightning framework and components.  ? Developed Lightning apps and components to be more interactive to end users.  ? Familiar with SFDC sales policies and procedures.  ? Experience with SalesCloud and Service Cloud.  ? Knowledge in generating reports, workflows, dashboard, customized reports, analyzing data in salesforce.  ? Build test cases in selenium for making sure the new changes do not break things which are already existing.  ? Created lighting web components and deployed them to the scratch orgs.  ? Hands on experience with salesforce DX  ? Configured email response services and custom settings.  ? Created lightning components using HTML, JavaScriptand JEST test and deployed them through visual studio code to scratch orgs.  ? Deployed applications from sandbox to sandbox/production usingworkbench, Change Set, ant migration tool, Visual Studio Code, Jenkinsand Eclipse.  ? Experienced in handling the functionalities related to the Sales Cloud and Service Cloud.  ? Experienced in integration of Salesforce.com with external applications by usingWeb Services API,Metadata API, and SOAP.  ? Proficient in using meta-data migration tools likeEclipse IDEand SalesforceApex Data Loader.  ? Experienced in SFDC administrative tasks like creating and assigning roles, profiles, Emailservices, page layouts, Sharing rules, validation rules.  ? Experienced with SFDC platform to build custom applications which includes administration, configuration, implementation and support experience.  ? Experienced in using Importwizard and Dataloaderutility for Data migration.  ? Implemented security and sharingrules for users at different levels of organization, Pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, formula fields to the customobjects.  ? Administrator experience in both Classic and Lightening versions.  ? Knowledge with EclipseIDE, chrome web-driver and force.com plug-in.  ? Experienced in developing Salesforce Lightning Apps, events, components and controllers.  ? Experienced in Web technologies - HTML, CSS, and JAVAscripts, JDK, and WSDL.  ? Experienced in object-oriented programming languages - C++, JAVA.  ? Experienced with profiles, permission sets, Organization wide defaults (OWD) and roles.  ? Experienced in Object oriented analysis, Object oriented design, client/server architecture based on Unified Modeling Language.  ? Knowledge in customizing Salesforce CRM for generating web-to-leads and web-to-cases, sales, Service cloud, Business processes.  ? Experienced in querying salesforce.com database using SOQL&SOSL queries using Force.com explorer.  ? Used orgSpinner to create a mock org within the sandbox.  ? Extensive experience working in an Agile development environment.  ? Excellent communication, problem solving and programming skills. Self-sufficient, flexible, and a good team player. Familiar to working with both large and small team environments.  ? Enthusiastic in learning new concepts, applications, and implement for a successful project. Work Experience Software Engineer/Salesforce Developer/Admin Salesforce - Hillsboro, OR May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Using SFDC created detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and created solutions by customizing various standard objects along with Visualforce, Force.com API and web services.  ? Created Custom objects, custom settings, Setup validation rules, Record types, custom tabs, field updates, formulas for data migration, workflow rules and email alerts.  ? Worked with several SFDC standard objects like Accounts, contacts, leads, opportunities, reports.  ? Developed Lightning apps and components to be more interactive to end users for enhancements in payments, adding services.  ? Developed visualforce pages, apex classes, triggers, Lightings components, selenium test cases, and test classes.  ? Following the coding standards to avoid errors and for better humanly readable.  ? Worked on data loader by uploadingrecords, merging and cleansing and de-duplicating bulk load.  ? Writing scripts for better data migration.  ? Co-ordination with release management team to make things smooth during a release.  ? Worked with Lighting web componentsand Salesforce DX.  ? Build functional test cases ensuring the Apex classes and triggers work as expected.  ? To search objects and retrieve data using SOSL and SOQL query in salesforce.  ? Communicating with other team members for requirements gathering and determine if there are any team dependencies.  ? Experience in building applications using ServiceCloudwith end to end implementation.  ? Deployed permissions for several objects using Workbench.  ? Used orgSpinner to create a mock org within the sandbox.  ? For transactional and contractual information created custom objects and fields. Created email alerts, field updated, workflow rules and defined related tasks.  ? Organized fields, custom links, related lists, and record pages by creating page layouts and search layouts.  ? Configured email response services and custom settings.  ? Created lightning components using HTML, JavaScript and JEST test and deployed them through visual studio code to scratch orgs.  ? Involved in configuration and end to end testing for the CLM functionalities.  ? Participated in designing and development of software using agile development practices.  ? Within the salesforce, CRM and cloudcomputing model created custom Apps and reports.  ? Developed, administered, configured, implemented and support of salesforce CRM.  ? Implemented various relationships using master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to custom objects.  ? Worked with out of the box functionality like Apptuswith Docusign.  ? To complete development and deployment activities worked with Release Management team.  ? Maintained multiple user roles, security, profiles, workflow rules, etc. Supported, trained new end users on Salesforce applications.  ? Written JEST test for Lightning web components.  ? Identified and continuously acted to improve individual and team knowledge of new technologies, business processes and project management skills.  ? Retrieving data such as Apex classes, custom fields, labels, objects from Workbench and adding them to the Github repository.  ? Used lightning components and visual force to create new tabs for improved look, custom actions and experience.  ? Deployed nightly jobs using Jenkins.  ? Fixed several Selenium test cases which are broken.  ? Used Google AnalyticsTagging on several pages for better tracking.  ? Experience integrating third party tools with salesforce such as Eclipse, pardot, Apttus, Steelbrick, Siebel, service cloud, visual studio Code, Sublime, Maven, workbench, jenkins etc.  ? Made customizations, implementation, integration with existing applications, community portals and mobile apps including service cloud implementations.  ? Created test suites for regression testing.  ? Using WSDL created Apex classes and for integration with external web services to the system wrote business logic layer according to the functional needs.  ? Implemented and developed Apex classes, triggers to manage the workflows, develop custom business logic.  ? Support and develop other engineers by providing advice, coaching and educational opportunities.  ? Created and managed custom objects, page layouts, fields, profiles, permission sets and reports.  ? To extract the data from external systems to display the pages of salesforce.com by integrating the web services.  ? Implemented object level and field level security for the profiles to hide sensitive information.  ? Salesforce CRM application was administrated and monitored. Created automated lead routing, lead escalations and email alert.    Environment: SFDC platform, Lightning (controllers and components), CRM, Data loader, workflow, Email services, and security controls, sandbox data loading, Apex language, Visual force, Eclipse IDE. Salesforce Developer CA (India) Technologies Private Limited September 2012 to December 2014 CA Technologies creates software that fuels transformation for companies and enables them to seize the opportunities of the application economy. Software is at the heart of every business in every industry. From planning, to development, to management and security, CA is working with companies worldwide to change the way we live, transact, and communicate - across mobile, private and public cloud, distributed and mainframe environments.    Responsibilities:  ? Collected requirements, design work flows and to implement the work flow from different business groups within the organization.  ? Worked with business analyst to analyze the business and technical requirements and by customizing standard objects of SFDC derived the solution.  ? Achieved user design functionality using Apex triggers and write the dependent test classes.  ? Developed and implemented workflows, field updates, email alerts, custom tabs, validation rules, approval processes.  ? Organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on record pages using page layouts, search layouts.  ? From sandbox environment deployed all classes, triggers, objects, components, pages to production environment.  ? Developed and customized visual force pages using standard controllers, controller extensions, and custom controllers.  ? Using data loader from SFDC objects for insert, update and bulk import/export of data.  ? Using forc.com IDE developed and deployed deployment strategy to test, and production smoothly.  ? Implemented lookup, master detail relationships, formula fields, pick lists, dependent pick lists and validation to the custom objects.  ? For data migration with in governor limits used SOQL and SOSL using Force.com explorer.  ? Configured profiles, permission sets and implemented security setting for the organization wide users.  ? Managed custom fields, integration and data cleanup which are a part of administration tasks.  ? Customized SFDC profiles and roles as a part of security and privileges.  ? For different user profiles developed and configured reports, report folders and dashboards depending on the need in the organization.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com Sites, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Data Loader, Apex, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Eclipse IDE Plug-in, HTML, Java Script, CSS, Workflow & Approvals, Email Services, Security Controls, Windows XP Pro / 7. Java Developer Symmetric Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to August 2012 Symmetric solutions create customized systems and processes to provide end-to-end software solutions and services. Also, providing IT solutions involving consulting and software development services.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed, developed and analyzed different phases of process flow module.  ? Test cases scripted based on the specifications as requested.  ? Coding using JSP, Java Servlets, Struts and XML.  ? Responsible for monitoring performance, diagnosing issues and tuning queries and databases.  ? Using JSP technology developed web interfaces for process flow, which provides flexibility in page design and easy to maintain and make modifications.  ? Tested application at various levels of integration and system testing by applying various methodologies.  ? To generate stored procedures and functions to use with Java used PL/SQL extensively.  ? Very good understanding in Object-Oriented analysis and design.  ? Implemented all components of the application including database tables, middleware designing, client-side web programming and server-side java programming.  ? Worked with various design patterns, UML and enterprise application integration.    Environment: Java 1.3, Java Beans, Java Servlets, DB2 V8.2, SQL, PL/SQL, Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, CSS, XML, AJAX, Windows NT/2000, Linux. Java Developer MaasrangePvt.Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2008 to May 2010 Intern)    This system is aimed at automating and standardizing the operation of dealers and distributors using Intranet. The manufacturer plans the production schedules and dispatches schedules depending on the stock levels at the dealers and distributors. GUI screens were developed using HTML. Java Script was used to validate the fields.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in designing the system based on UML concepts which include class diagrams, data flow diagrams, state diagrams using Rational Rose Enterprise Edition, sequence diagrams.  ? Involved if design, implementation, testing, deploying and enhancement of the application.  ? Stored procedures and developed data model.  ? Using JSP and HTML designed and developed web pages along with JavaScript for client side validation.  ? To process update information developed servlets.  ? Involved in maintenance and production support of the application documented design and functional aspects of the application.  ? For communication with database used JDBC.  ? Based on MVC architecture standards involved in design and development of the application in n-tier fashion and utilized struts frame work.  Environment: Java, Java Beans, Servlets, JSP, MVC, JMS, EJB2.0, Weblogic8.1, ORACLE8i, JavaScript, XML, HTML, DHTML, Windows Education Northeastern University - Boston, MA January 2015 to April 2017 Skills C++, Html, Xml, Eclipse, Java Links http://Salesforce.com http://salesfore.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Salesforce Technologies  Apex Language, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Apex Web Services, Apex Data Loader, Dashboards, Reports, Custom Objects, Force.com, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, AJAX, Visual Force (Pages/Components & Controllers), Velva, Lightning (components and controllers), Workflow rule, Approvals, CPQ, S-Controls, SOQL, SOSL, Custom Objects, Force.com IDE, Standard objects, Data loader, Data integration, Data migration, Sales cloud, salesforce cloud, CRM.    Salesforce Tools Eclipse, Force.com Explorer, Apex Data loader, Command Line Data Loader, Force.com Platform (Sandbox, and Production).  Programming Languages Apex, PL/SQL, Java, C, C++  Web Technologies HTML, XML, Java script, CSS, JDK, and WSDL  Databases Oracle, SQL server, PL/SQL  Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/NT/98/UNIX