Senior Software Consultant Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Consultant Senior Software Consultant - Hayes Management Consulting Atlanta, GA • Around 7+ years of professional experience in software design, development, debugging, deploying, documentation, testing and troubleshooting of client-server, web based applications.  • Recognized by management team for identifying and implementing cost efficient solutions.  • Expertise in Object oriented programming principles and design in C#.  • Proficient in developing Asp.Net web applications using contemporary design patterns like MVC (using AngularJs), MVVM (using KnockoutJs), Web API  • Proficient in Client side technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Json, Ajax, JQuery (advanced), AnuglarJs and KnockoutJs, Bootstrap. Good working knowledge on HTML5, CSS3.  • Thorough understanding of database design, writing complex SQL queries, stored procedures, indexes to optimize search performance, triggers and views. Expertise in ADO.Net, Entity Framework, Dapper.  • Extensive knowledge in using tools like Visual Studio, Re-Sharper, and Version tools like TFS, Github.  • Proficient in using Cognos reporting SDK and Mashup services. Thorough understanding of report studio, creating reports, outputs, scheduling jobs, dashboards in Cognos. Working knowledge of SSRS reports.  • Experienced in Software development models like Scrum, Agile, and Waterfall.  • Experienced in developing, maintenance & hosting of web sites through Content Management Systems - Wordpress.  • Worked in diversified sectors - Healthcare, Insurance, Payroll, Sales.  • Excellent communication skills, inter personal skills and overall a good team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Consultant Hayes Management Consulting - Newton, MA April 2015 to Present Hayes Management Consulting provides consulting services/enterprise applications to the organizations in the Healthcare domain with prime focus in Healthcare audits.  Project Description: Developed a web application used for auditing Professional and Hospital billing, adhering to HIPPA compliance.  Role & Responsibilities:  * Project Inception phase:  - Analyzed the client's two existing windows versions of the applications, used for serving Hospital and Professional billing separately and came up with the proposal for building one comprehensive web app which can serve both clients.  - Worked closely with Product owners, SME's helping them come up with the list of desired features, high level discussion on features, estimating features and budget proposal.  - Worked closely with architect in technology evaluation for UI, reporting, analytics and Hosting, designing project architecture, selecting tools required for the project implementations and costs involved.  * Planning Phase:  - Worked with business in deciding the scope, segregating features for different phases of project based on their budget.  - Carefully analyzed phase 1 feature dependencies and divided features into sprints.  - Performed high level POC's for complex features.  * Execution Phase:  - Working with business understanding user stories, wire framing and writing high level user specifications.  - Review of wireframes with UX for rich UI design, discussion with data team in coming up with Logical and Physical data models.  - Closely working with offshore in each iteration managing deliverables, sprint demos, retrospective and planning.  - Assisting off shore in coding complex modules and performance optimization.  - Created SSIS packages for ETL transformations from legacy system to new database.  Technologies: Asp.Net 5.0, MVC 6, Angular Js, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, C#, Dapper (ORM), Devextreme UI controls, Devexpress reporting tool, Github, MS SQL server, SSIS, Visual studio 2015, Balsamiq, Invision, MS office. Senior Software Developer UNUM - Portland, ME March 2013 to October 2015 UNUM is the largest provider of disability insurance both in United States and United Kingdom providing financial security to individuals and their families. UNUM offers wide range of benefits solutions - including education, enrollment services and valuable claim support.  Project Description: Developed a custom user interface programmed in ASP.Net used for rendering BI reports generated in Cognos on the UI. Project involved extensive use of Cognos SDK, Mashup services and web frameworks.    Role & Responsibilities:  * Responsible for developing rich user interfaces interacting with Cognos backend, for reporting claims and leaves processed by the organization in the real time.  * Application could handle most of the functions supported by Cognos BI tool like running, scheduling, sharing, designing, exporting reports, managing security, user preferences.  * Integrated above mentioned functionalities using Cognos SDK (SOAP based service) and Mash-up services (REST based service).  * Project was architected to use MVVM pattern with Knockout JS interacting with web API controllers, connecting to the data access layer which interacts with Congos.  * Coded the HTML views, java script view models, controllers, C# model classes, business layer and data layer.  * Extensive use of front end JQuery libraries like Data-tables, Calendar, JQuery UI tabs, SlickGrid, JQuery Widgets.  * Created SSIS packages for loading data from relational database to enterprise warehouse.  * Implemented efficient logging mechanisms, cache management for performance monitoring and optimization.  * Implemented single sign on to Congos, session management, efficient handling of time outs, asynchronous reports processing.  * Used require.js for asynchronous loading of java script files.  * Used MS unit test for testing C# code and Qunit for Java script testing.  * Extensive use of tools like Fiddler, google chrome developer tools for debugging front end.  * Diligence in maintaining web compatibility supporting IE8-IE10, Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox and Safari browsers.  * Worked closely with offshore development team, efficiently managed coding responsibilities between on shore and off shore.  * Active involvement in all the phases including requirement analysis, design, POC's, development, implementation, integration testing, deployment, documentation and support.  Technologies: Asp.Net, C#, MVVM, MVC, SQL Server 2012, SSIS, Cognos SDK and Mashup, HTML, CSS, Jquery, Qunit, Jquery Widgets, XML, MSUnit testing, Web API, Log4net, External libraries like HTML Agility pack, JSON convert, Datatables, Slickgrid, Knockout, Angular Js, RequireJs, ReSharper, Visual Studio 2012. Senior Software Engineer TD Ameritrade - New York, NY April 2012 to February 2013 TD Ameritrade is a leader in brokerage and investment services for over 35 years. It offers full spectrum of powerful solutions and innovative tools for trading and investing.The Application is for conducting the daily and weekly basis Text, Email, Letter, Dialer and Auto agent campaigns for collections from various delinquent customers and also for loading the data in to the data warehouse tables for reporting purpose.    Responsibilities:  • Used MS design patterns to de-couple front-end with the backend and to retrieve data, multi-threaded framework used.  • Created Use Cases, Class diagrams, sequence diagrams using UML and Prepared technical specification documentation.  • Used Macromedia Flash for designs, animation, and application user interfaces are deployed across all browsers and platforms, attracting and engaging users with a rich Web experience.  • Created functional prototypes, design templates, style-sheets and wire frame mockups to show case custom integration options.  • Designed the GUI by developing Win Forms, Web Forms using .NET Framework, and Visual Studio 2008.  • Used Ajax Controls and CSS to give richness for GUI.  • Designed and developed Location finder, Verification modules.  • Used C#.NET in Middle-Tier application to write the business logic, Wrapper Classes.  • Used new ASP.Net data bound controls (Grid view, Form view, SQL Data source and Object data source) for data access and manipulation.  • Review and modify code to eliminate design inconsistencies introduced during development cycles and to ensure cross-browser functionality.  • Design, develop, implement, and maintain moderately complex SQL databases, interactive web applications, and Access database front-ends/reports.  • Security services for authorizations, wrote wrapper classes using C#.  Technologies: Visual Studio .NET 2008, .NET Framework 3.5, ASP.NET MVC, ADO.NET, IIS 6.0, XML, HTML, JQuery, Ajax, CSS, SOAP, SQL Server 2005, WCF. Senior Software Developer Shell Oil Corporation - Houston, TX July 2011 to March 2012 Shell Oil Company is one of the largest oil based company in the world. The company's services also include testing, development, professional services automation, project and portfolio management, cloud-based collaboration and performance management software for programs running on mainframe computer and distributed client server systems.    Responsibilities:  • As a senior software developer, involved in understanding the architecture and design plan of the project.  • Interacted with the customers to capture requirements, design software, produce test cases and validate the software for the release.  • Involved in end to end phase of SDLC and played in key role in the development cycle.  • Involved in enhancement of several other modules of the project.  • Writing complex SQL queries for the data retrieval.  • Used data binding concepts such as Data Adapter, Data Set and Data readers.  • Documented and implemented changes as a part of SDLC.  • Contributed effectively in bug fixing and software release.  • Collaborated with Business Analyst, QA, DBA teams for the successful development.  • Troubleshooting problem root causes & areas while maintaining the application.  Technologies: C#.Net, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, WCF, MS SQL Server 2008, SSIS, SSRS, JQuery, NUnit testing framework, agile development. Senior Member - Programmer Cerner - Kansas City January 2010 to June 2011 Cerner is a health care firm. The company's solutions optimize process for health care organizations ranging from single - doctor practices to entire countries, for pharmaceutical and medical device industries, and for the field of health care as a whole. Cerner's solutions are licensed by more than 9,000 facilities worldwide.  The application was developed to provide complete solution for hospital information system and involved collaboration of both technical and medical professionals. Application was intended for inpatients, out patients and emergency patients with the main objective of providing paperless, cashless and hassle free set up for medical professionals.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing rich 3-tier architecture User Interfaces using MS.Net technologies.  • Contributed effectively in all phases of SDLC.  • Duties involved documentation of the requirements, design plan, development, bug-fixing, Code reviews, deployment and Support.  • Development phase involved design of UI's, Impact analysis, writing client - server validations, Impact analysis, calling web services, writing stored procedures.  • Collaborated efficiently with the testing and Management team for the successful release of the project.  • Involved in maintaining weekly status reports of the team members, monitoring work estimates and work hours of the developers and reporting it to management team.  • Conducted knowledge transfer sessions to the fresher's in the team.  Technologies: ASP.Net, C#, UML, LINQ, Visual Source Safe, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Scrum, Visual Studio 2010 and SQL Server. Education Bachelor's Skills .Net (8 years), ASP (8 years), Asp.Net (8 years), C# (8 years), MS ASP (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages C, C++, C#, PHP  .Net Technologies/ Patterns  Asp.Net, WebForms, ADO.Net, LINQ, Entity Framework, MVC 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, MVVM, XML, WCF, Web Services, Web API, WPF, SQL Server (2010, 2012), MS Unit test, NHibernate    Reporting SSIS, SSRS, Cognos Report Studio, Cognos SDK and Mashup Services  Client Side Technologies  HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, Knockout, Angular, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, Require Js, QUnit, Developer tools, Sprite sheets, Devextreme web,  Devexpress    Content Management Wordpress, Prestashop, Joomla  Tools Visual Studio online, Toad, Balsamiq, Visual Studio 2012, TFS, Re-Shaper, Fiddler