Net Developer Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Net Developer - Whereoware LLC Ashburn, VA Have led a team of 6 individuals in two large projects  through entire software development lifecycle from start to  finish for a successful completion and win client's accolade.    Self motivated, technically proficient, leader, having  worked on technologies like ASP.NET 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0  C#.NET, MVC 3, JavaScript, AJAX, Crystal Reports, MS  SQL 2008/2005, Telerik controls, Infragistics controls, Dev  Express controls, Web Services, Windows Desktop  applications, Web applications using Service Oriented  Architecture (SOA) in truly distributed n-tier application  architecture, developed custom control library using Ajax  toolkit and asp validators.    Episerver eCommerce trained and expertise.    Have actively participated during knowledge transfer and  requirement study, analysis phase, estimation, doing client  interaction and documentation and database design.  Analytically strong.    Enthusiastic, creative and willing to assume increased  responsibility.    Unique ability to adapt quickly to challenges and changing  environments with strong interpersonal skills.    Resume of Sapna Mishra for Senior .Net Positions in Northern VA, Washington DC Metropolitan Area Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Net Developer Whereoware LLC - Chantilly, VA 2013 to Present Developing eCommerce application using Apdotnetstorefront out of the box solution.  • Developing in house framework using episerver as a base which  can be used to develop eCommerce applications on top of this  framework.  • Trouble shooting, performance tuning for sql server.  • Developing and integrating modules such as google tracking,  facebook tracking, nortan tracking etc in eCommerce  applications.  • Integrating marketing tools like silver pop marketing tools into our in house developed eCommerce application.  • Developing ERP applications to talk between front end of eCommerce and back office system. Net Developer AHRI - Arlington, VA July 2012 to October 2012 Designed and developed web applications using .Net framework  4.0, MVC 3, jQuery, Telerik MVC Controls.  • Consumed and Developed WCF Web services for this application.  • Worked with T-SQL in MSSQL server 2008  • Worked in TFS environment    Resume of Sapna Mishra for Senior .Net Positions in Northern VA, Washington DC Metropolitan Area  • Followed Agile methodology for the software development  process.  • Unit testing. Software Engineer Intersections Inc - Chantilly, VA September 2011 to March 2012 USA    • Designed and developed web applicaions and Win forms using asp.net, c  Ajax, Javascript, DevExpress, Xtragrid.  • Worked with T-SQL in MSSQL server 2008  • Worked in MKS environment  • Followed Agile methodology for the software development  process.  • Unit testing and integrated testing. Sr .Net Developer Ibinfologic August 2010 to August 2011 Virginia, USA    • Analyzed user needs and software requirements to determine feasibility of software design.  • Developed enterprise business applications using .Net 4.0  framework, WCF, Sql Server 2008.  • Used LINQ to SQL server for data connectivity.  • Used Team Foundation Server to work remotely on client  machine. Sr. Software Engineer Tatvasoft Technologies - Ahmedabad, Gujarat January 2009 to July 2010 Ahmedabad, India    • Managed 7-8 senior as well as junior developers.  • Implemented Web services & WCF in a Web application.  • Designed database structure for projects using Visio and  SQL server.    Resume of Sapna Mishra for Senior .Net Positions in Northern VA, Washington DC Metropolitan Area  • Created custom controls for the company tool library  using Ajax control toolkit.  • Designed UI screens using WPF, Visual Studio  2008/2010, Ajax, HTML, Javascript and our own custom  controls.  • Managed theming and layout of the project using  Stylesheet, CSS and skin files.  • Coding presentation layer to communicate with business  layer. Writing business logic classes to filter data,  implement business workflow logic and communicate with data layer.  • Unit testing of developed modules/pages.  • Deployment of project applications on test and production servers using FTP, FileZilla and few other  tools. Software Engineer Gateway Technolabs Pvt. Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat February 2007 to January 2009 Ahmedabad, India    • Implemented xml read & generation, crystal report  generation, Telerik controls in a Windows application.  • Participated in Object Oriented database design using sql  server as backend.  • Implemented Web services & WCF in a Web application.  • Designed UI screens using visual studio 2005/2008, Ajax,  Javascript for a Web application.  • Coding presentation layer to communicate with business  layer. Writing business logic classes to filter data. Implement  business workflow logic and communicate with data layer.  • Unit testing of developed modules/pages.    Resume of Sapna Mishra for Senior .Net Positions in Northern VA, Washington DC Metropolitan Area Education diploma in application programming CDAC - Pune, Maharashtra August 2006 to January 2007 Bachelor of Engineering in Civil Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar University August 1997 to May 2003 Jawaharlal Nehru Engineering College - Aurangabad, Maharashtra Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Asp.net (2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0) MS SQL Javascript  C# .Net Oracle xHTML  Web Services MySQL Javascript  WCF/WPF XML jQuery  MVC 3 XSLT    TOOLS    Visual Studio 2005/2008/2010 Ajax Control Toolkit  SQL Server / Client Infragistic Controls  Microsoft Office Telrik Controls  Crystal Reports