Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - Theatermania Harrison, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer Theatermania - New York, NY August 2015 to Present Actively architect, design, and develop the media companies new content management system using the Drupal 8 Framework  ? Develop and maintain the newly designed website of the business using ReactJS and GraphQL Spec  ? Research and gain understanding on the frameworks such as ElasticSearch and Drupal 8  ? Participate in roadmap discussions with the technical team and product team to creative the best iterative  roadmap to reach desired product goals API Software Engineer Something Digital - New York, NY February 2015 to May 2015 Utilized technologies such as VMware and VirtualBox to gain better understanding of Virtual Systems.  ? Created scripts to deploy instant virtual development environments using Chef Solo and Vagrant.  ? Researched and gained basic understanding of the Magento Framework.  ? Able to provide website support development while working under high-paced client demands. Software Engineer Co-op Johnson & Johnson ITS - Raritan, NJ January 2014 to August 2014 Created complex modules to acquire data from databases for in-house medical research.  ? Gained knowledge of Agile Development Design; requirement gathering, client facing, and proper testing.  ? Acquired a better understanding of Object Relational Mapping's and proper Application Programming  Interface design through regular use and application to corporate systems.  ? Gained expertise in establishing requirements from clinical, business and development teams. Developer Co-op WithIT - Jersey City, NJ September 2012 to December 2013 Gained understanding of Field, Process, Exception, and Diabolic Testing through in-house team.  ? Improved company database analysis process and design skills.  ? Created a simple and efficient support page to allow easy database access for the customer support team.  ? Formulated methods to consolidate and manage data overflow. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ 2015 Skills Javascript (5 years), PHP (6 years), Elasticsearch (3 years), Drupal (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills & Abilities  Daily (JavaScript, PHP):  ? Build out features for the CMS based on need of the business, using the Drupal framework and ElasticSearch  ? Create endpoints for our website's data using GraphQL Spec and ElasticSearch  ? Build or refactor React components needed for the website  ? Code Review / Test teams work  Weekly (GraphQL, ElasticSearch, Drupal 8):  ? Discuss and architect roadmaps for feature requests  ? Read and learn about related technologies to gain adept understanding of the frameworks I am using  Monthly:  ? Have retrospectives for past work and discuss areas of improvements and create roadmaps for said improvements  ? Participate in conversations about business priorities and the technical feasibilities of each priority