Full Stack Java Software Developer Full Stack Java <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Web Developer Minneapolis, MN As a well-rounded senior Java web developer, my focus is to build object-oriented applications and software technologies to be more accessible, user-friendly and comprehensive to clients globally. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Software Developer Booz Allen Hamilton July 2018 to Present •                Over 5 years of experience in design, development and implementation of Web and Client/Server applications using Core Java, Servlet, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Batch, Spring Rest, JPA, Hibernate, Junit, MySQL, SQL Server, JavaScript, AJAX, Jhipster, jQuery, HTML5 and CSS3.   •                Extensive background in full life-cycle of software development process.  •                Utilized the entire Production CI/CD process from Build, Unit Testing and Production deployment along with measurement of performance with Jenkins.   •                Extensive experience in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures for accessing and managing databases such as Oracle, DB2, and MySQL.   •                Utilized Agile development management tools Jira, CA Agile Central and GitHub Kanban Boards  •                Utilized Hibernate and JPA to create and ORM data access layer.  •                Participate in application testing with Postman, SoapUI and JMeter for any system upgrades and migration.  •                Adhered to the principles of Test Driven Development as part of SDLC.  •                Monitor and troubleshoot any issues based on application logs daily.  •                Actively participate in requirements gathering sessions and provide client with feedback and suggest best possible solutions based on industry standards and client requirements.  •                Created and maintained the development environment. Created virtual machines, installed and configured database and web servers. Java Software Engineer Deloitte Consulting LLP August 2016 to July 2018 •                Created Web Applications using the Spring Framework set of tools (Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Rest, Spring Batch and Spring Boot).  •                Worked extensively with requirements gathering and user stories in CA Rally.  •                Defined new validations through ReactJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  •                Consumed Restful web services and performed data retrievals using Hibernate.   •                Validated the business rules with the Business Analysts such that they meet the specification.   •                Designed and developed UI framework using ReactJS/Custom JSP File and used java script for front end validations.   •                Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session, Façade and Factory.   •                Wrote Junit test classes and created Mock objects for services utilizing Mockito.   •                Wrote SQL queries of differing complexities for the application. Designed and developed database objects such as Tables, Views, Stored procedures, User Functions using PL/SQL, SQL  Developer.   •                Extensive knowledge and experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using ReactJS   •                Developed various Java Beans using Core Java to implement business logic.   •                Used H2 database tool to build, edit, and format database queries, as well as eliminate performance issues in the code.   •                Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, CSS3, ReactJS, Ajax, Bootstrap based on the W3C standards and Web2.0.  Full Stack Java Web Developer PWC LLP June 2013 to August 2016 •                Consumed Restful web services and performed data retrievals using Hibernate.  •                Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session, Façade and Factory.   •                Involved in design and implementation of MVC architecture in different modules.   •                Implemented business logic in Middle tier using pluggable components, which are specified in the customized xml documents using Spring Framework.   •                Involved in creating Servlets using client and server-side validations to integrate with the business logic.  •                Wrote Junit test classes and created Mock objects for various services.   •                Wrote SQL queries of differing complexities for the application. Designed and developed database objects like Tables, Views, Stored procedures, User Functions using MySQL.   •                Participated in the complete software development lifecycle tasks (design, coding, testing and documentation).   •                Experience in working with JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, and HTML5 to ensure client side UX quality.  •                Experience in working on and implementing Twitter Bootstrap, Less, Sass and CSS3 to create responsive UX/UI experiences for clients.  •                Involved in software development life cycle including analysis, design, development, Unit testing, refactoring and documentation of the application using Java.   •                Prepared Technical Design Document to understand the flow of the application.   •                Participated in the analysis, design and the development of different modules for the integration with the application.   •                Used Agile scrum development processes during the project process to gather the requirements and issues.   •                Developed web GUI involving HTML5, Node JS, Java Script under MVC architecture   •                Used JSP and Java script libraries such as jQuery to develop the User Interface. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Minnesota-Twin Cities Skills Spring, Hibernate, Javascript, MVC, JSP, Java, Java J2Ee, Tomcat, SQL, Spring Boot, Jenkins, Servlets, HTML 5, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, Ajax, Jackson, Mongo DB3, JSON, RESTful Services, JUnit, Bootstrap, Log4J, Slf4j, Maven, JDBC, Node.js, Git, GitHub, SoapUI, JMeter, Postman, JHipster, Rest, React, Nodejs Links http://linkedin.com/in/karen-b-589805131