Software Development Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Engineer Software Development Engineer El Paso, TX Continue to develop in the various areas of IT, especially in software development, within a leading company in their area, integrating all my knowledge and experience, to maintain a continuous development as IT professional, thus contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the company. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Development Engineer Scientific Atlanta, Inc - Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico April 2017 to Present Responsible of the design, development, test, implementation, and documentation of new applications and/or enhancement of existing applications of different CISCO's business units, using VB6, Java, C#, VB, MVC pattern and .NET Framework. Application migration from VB6, VS2003 .NET 1.1, VS2005 .NET 2.0 to VS2015 NET 4.x. Consumption SAP's RFCs. Management of Database SQL Server and Oracle. DF CISCO 8D’s and eDOCs implementation and MFG support (SFC Systems). Control version source code with Git and Bitbucket, Kaizen week. Project administration. Software Developer Freelance SELEX Express - El Paso, TX November 2017 to May 2018 Development of the SELEX Express system for fleet control of trucks and trailers using ASP.NET C#, ADO.NET and Database SQL Server 2014. Working remotely. Software Developer Engineer Sanmina Corporation - Juárez, Chihuahua, Mexico 2016 to February 2017 Development of applications using the C# and .NET Framework. Maintenance and troubleshoot existing applications in VB, C# and VB6 language. Analysis, design and programming of databases in SQL Server, creation and consumption of Web Services. MFG support. Systems Engineer Almacenes Distruibuidores de la Frontera S.A de C.V. - Ciudad Juárez, Chih. May 2012 to April 2016 Remote technical support of point of sale system in over 200 locations. Installation, configuration and maintenance of computer equipment and printers. User support for different systems. Developer system to monitor internet connections via alarms using geolocation technologies and Google Maps. Inventory management in the IT department. Education Bachelor's in Computer Systems Engineering Universidad Autonoma de Ciudad Juarez - Ciudad Juárez, Chih. January 2011 to November 2016 Skills ADO.NET (3 years), DexExpress Controls 15+ (2 years), Crystal Reports (3 years), visual basic (2 years), visual studio (8 years), SQL (7 years), Stored Procedures (5 years), Design and creation of databases (6 years), IIS (6 years), Git (2 years), HTML 5 (5 years), Javascript (5 years), jQuery (5 years), MySQL (3 years), CSS (7 years), Data Analysis (3 years), HTML (8 years), C# (8 years), Web Services (4 years), Web Development (8 years), PHP (1 year), Java (1 year), Leadership Development (2 years), Illustrator (Less than 1 year), Indesign (Less than 1 year), Photoshop (Less than 1 year), Autocad (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Windows OS (10+ years), System Administration (7 years), Troubleshooting (7 years), Desktop Support (7 years), Manufacturing (3 years), Android (1 year), Office Applications (10+ years), Debugging (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/julio-perez23/ Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 6 Programmer September 2014 Esta certificación garantiza que el programador comprende la sintaxis básica y la estructura del lenguaje Java, para poder desarrollar las interfaces de aplicaciones básicas con la programación orientadas a objetos. Additional Information English, Speak Beginner, Read and Write Elementary.   Spanish native.