Business Systems Analyst Business Systems Analyst Buffalo, NY • Having 9 years of Professional experience in Business Intelligence, healthcare practice; working as Senior Principal Software Engineer in GGK Technologies.  • Good communicator and facilitator, able to drive onsite meeting with Business analyst, and good at understanding and validating of business requirements.  • Visited client location (Chicago, New York USA) and interacted with State and CMS entities to collect the requirements.  • Worked closely with Onsite BA and offshore dev team in completing the development per requirements.  • Good at US healthcare Medicaid, Medicare and Commercial line of business.  • Had good understanding on Payer and Provider electronic communications EDI 834, 820, 837P/D/I, 277, 835, 270, 271, 277, 276, and 278 files  • Strong knowledge of HIPAA compliance.  • Helped payers in submitting Medicaid, Medicare and commercial line of business encounters to State and CMS. Helped payer in increasing encounter submission acceptance rate from state.  • Performed the requirement analysis, impact analysis and documented the requirements for CMS Marketplace Enrollment, member services, billing and encounter systems.  • Helped payers in increasing the capitation payment from CMS by identifying members for interventions through CMS MMR and MOR files  • Extensive knowledge of Healthcare Marketplace services and its Regulations  • Worked on EDI 834 Benefit Enrollment and Maintenance and EDI 837P/I to identify key data set elements for designated record set and various data scenarios.  • Expert in building of ETL, database designs, load strategies and reporting requirements against business requirements  • Skilled at analyzing, extracting and modeling data, ETL tools and spreadsheets, demonstrated experience in writing and reviewing technical specifications. And document logical data models based on business. In addition to this, Involved in designing ETL source to target mapping queries and OBIEE report queries in ORACLE  • Expert in Informatica Power center 9.1.0, HP Quality Center, Oracle SQL Developer, SQL Server 2012 and Attuned with the latest trends and techniques of the field, having quality quantitative aptitude, determined to carve a successful and satisfying career in the IT industry.  • Strong programming skills using T-SQL Profound knowledge and ability to write complex queries.  • Designing of new mappings and updating the existing mappings for change requests  • Develop test cases and test scripts based on business requirements & technical specs.  • Develop unit test cases to track the changes in an application Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Business Systems Analyst Fidelis November 2017 to Present Fidelis Care is the New York State Catholic Health Plan, providing quality, affordable, New York State-sponsored health insurance coverage for people of all ages and at all stages of life.    Tools: Visual Studio 2012, Data Stage, Sql Server 2016, Greenplum, Sybase ASC and IQ Business Analyst www.ggktech.com - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2015 to October 2017 Member Enrollment Crux September 2015 to October 2016 Member Services, Bill generation and payments processing, Member Portal and Producer Portal modules.    Tools: Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server 2012, SSIS  Project: Enrollment, Member Services & Billing  Description: Enrollment accepts applications from end users through various sales channels like paper, online, EDI 834 and determines the eligibility. Member Service is to perform various member operations address, plan, personal information, effective date change upon member request. Billing takes care of generating invoices for member policies and accepts payments.    Responsibilities:  • Providing the functional requirements for enrollment and member service modules  • Lead the team in understanding the business and functional requirements  • Support design and development team for high and low level technical documentation  • Performed user acceptance testing to made sure solution is meeting end user expectations    Technical Roles:  • Designed enrollment and member services DB Schema  • Developed ETL frame work to process EDI 834 file  • Written SQL procedures for all functional operations Software Developer Blue cross blue shield January 2013 to August 2015 BCBS is one of the leading healthcare payer in US, provides individual and family health insurance policies to the members. Part of this, it is maintaining enrollment, membership and producer portals to provide services to the members. Software Developer Cox Communications - Atlanta, GA August 2010 to December 2012 Atlanta, USA) (Aug 2010-Dec 2012)  Cox Communications is one of the leading information broadcasting and entertainment service providers in USA. They automated their business analytics using Oracle BI tool and reflected data in form of OBIEE dashboards pulling data from backend Enterprise data warehouse, which was populated by ETL process initiated and managed by Informatica 9.1 ETL tool. This project was conglomeration of cluster of projects depending upon business needs and complexity    Tools: Informatics 9.1, HP Quality Center, Oracle SQL Developer, SQL Server 2008, OBIEE 11G and UNIX shell scripting Education Bachelor of Technology in CSE Jyothishmathi Institute of Technology & Sciences - Hyderabad, AP, IN Skills SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2008, ORACLE, SQL, SYBASE, ETL, INFORMATICA, POWERCENTER, VISUAL STUDIO, C++, JIRA, T-SQL, ASC, BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE, WORKFLOW, Data Warehouse