Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Regions Bank Springville, AL Highly skilled application developer with expertise in C#, WPF, Java, PowerBI, Oracle, MongoDB and SQL. Highly experienced at technical support in high volume environments with strong analytical and communication abilities. Complex problem solver able to thrive in fast paced and challenging roles. Work Experience Software Engineer Regions Bank - Hoover, AL July 2019 to Present Develop applications that improve department workflow and efficiency  Field ad hoc requests and design solutions using multiple tools and technologies depending on the size and scope of the project  Migrate data from Oracle/SQL databases to HDFS, Hive, and Impala  Lead team meetings and contribute insight and ideas to management. Programmer Analyst Regions Bank - Hoover, AL August 2017 to July 2019 Data preparation in a Big Data environment utilizing tools such as HUE and Cloudera  Navigator.  Support critical monitoring applications for day to day batch processing  Develop custom BI reports based on requirement criteria provided by business groups within the corporation.  Field business related questions about data and how to access and aggregate the data across multiple  source systems in the Enterprise Data Lake.  Develop back-end solutions to automate intake of business metadata into Oracle  databases.  Develop custom Request form hooking into Jira REST API in order to provide seamless  communication between business groups and technology.  Lead team meetings and contribute insight and ideas to management. Support Developer Integrated Legacy Solutions - Argo, AL May 2015 to August 2017 Analyze application data to assess performance and uncover problems.    Quickly solve issues through editing code or by creating new more efcient code.  Develop multiple utilities both independently or in a team environment.  Work in a team environment to complete all testing required within aggressive  timelines.  Complete root cause analysis of defects as well as provide defect solutions.  Monitor data processing and development activities to ensure they meet established  quality standards.  Extract, Transform, Load development and execution Darren Ford - Springville, AL May 2014 to April 2015 Troubleshoot and resolved a variety of application issues escalated from end users.  Fixed hardware related issues on client computers, printers and networks.  Worked with SQL, HTML and Microsoft Visual Studio. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Alabama at Birmingham - Birmingham, AL August 2012 to December 2015