Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer El Cajon, CA Work Experience Software Developer Lung Sleep & Medicine Ins - El Cajon, CA May 2017 to Present • Setting Up Small Business Network.  • Designed and developed Xamarin forms application in C# using to get the Patient information and save them localy then upload it to the claud.  • Working on design and developing a new project in C#, .Net that gather Blood pressure data of the Patients daily using special Blood pressure devices which can sync the data to the patients phones using bluetooth then upload the data to the clinic Sql database server to help the doctor to generate a reports to monitor and evaluate these data. Software Developer Atos International Germany GmbH July 2012 to April 2017 - Erlangen, BY  • Wrote clean, clear and well-tested code in C# .Net for various projects.  • Modified existing software to correct errors, adapt to new hardware and improve performance.  • Carefully documented technical workflows in a private wiki for education of newly hired employees.  • Wrote virtualization apps using C# and PowerShell to automate virtual machine orchestration.  • Monitored and updated back-end data by inter-communicating between C# WCF Web Service and SQL.  • Build databases and table structures and Programming Storedprocedures in SQL to Achive complex operation on backend Servers.  • Debugged and modified software components.  • Programming of client specific automated scripts on the basis of Microsoft Orchestrator (MS Orch) Java Script and Microsoft SQL for various clients such as a large financial corporation for the automated management of approximately 80,000 MS Exchange mailboxes.  • Programming of an interface for the connection of MS Orch based automated solution from Atos to ServiceNow.  • Documentation, testing and optimization.  • Member of an internationally combined team (USA, Poland, India, Germany).  • Contributed to projects as part of the introduction of the automated solution BEATbox with the goal to achiebe a large volume and additional cost savings with automation for additional Atos client.  • Acquired knowledge of the product ServiceNow during internal training session and independent advanced training, also independently took an examination to become a certified ServiceNow administrator. Software Developer Connexis Holding GmbH September 2010 to July 2012 - Nuernberg, BY  • Designed and implemented SharePoint 2010 application using C#.  • Oversaw major new enhancements to existing software systems.  • Assessed costs and risks associated with developing new features and products.  • Debugged and modified software components.  • Designed WPF application components.  • Coded Customer Knowledgebase websites using Java Script, HTML, CSS. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Al Mansour University 1997 Skills C#