NET Developer NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> NET Developer - United HealthCare Chicago, IL * Around 8 years of experience, in Designing Developing Enterprise wide applications and product development life cycle project using cutting edge technologies in N-Tier and Service Oriented architectures.  * 6 years of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) experience of using Water Fall, Agile and Agile Scrum methodologies.  * Solid technical background developing internet, N tier and Client Server applications of .Net Object Oriented Programming using ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server 2008/2012/2014, MVC, WPF, WCF, Azure Cloud and performance optimization tools and technology.  * Worked on various architectures like MVC4/MVC5, SOA, Multi-tier architectures.  * Experience with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON and emerging Web Technologies.  * Experience with JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS and Backbone.js.  * Experience in XML related technologies including XAML and XSD.  * Worked knowledge in creating consuming Web services SOAP, WSDL, .NET Remote Server Components using .NET Framework, to develop Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based application.  * Strong database design and experience in query programming. Strong skills in Writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, User Defined Functions using SQL PL/SQL, T-SQL in SQL Server 2012/2008/2005.  * Expertise with application development using Object Oriented Analysis & Design techniques (OOAD).  * Worked extensively in ORM (Object Relational Mapper) with using ADO.NET, Entity Framework, LINQ and Lambda Expressions.  * Design and development on databases using SQL Server 2008/2012.  * Developing Reports using SQL Server Reporting Services SSRS, SQL Server Integration Services SSIS. Developing SSIS packages and designing ETL processes.  * Knowledge on developing Reports using crystal reports and RDLC reports.  * Proven ability in generating Drill down and Drill through reports with Drop down menu option, sorting the data, defining subtotals in SSRS.  * Experience in developing and consuming ASP.Net Web Services, ASP.Net Web API (RESTful) and Windows Communication Foundation (WCF). Experience in using WPF to building rich Windows smart client user experiences.  * Experience in using LINQ (Language Integrated Query) and Entity Frame Work by retrieving data from various data sources.  * Strong knowledge in writing unit tests with MS Unit and NUnit.  * Strong experience in using ASP.NET Web applications involving User controls, Server controls, ASP.NET State Management.  * Worked with the Version Control Systems like Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual Source Safe (VSS).  * Passionate about listening to executive-level business issues and then architecting and implementing solutions including business process change.  * Good Verbal communication, customer service skills, and excellent written. Work Experience NET Developer United HealthCare - Chicago, IL March 2016 to Present Description: This web-based application allows authorized users, both inside and outside the organization, manages claims and assignments, and recommends next steps. Also monitors new claims, assignments and rejected claims. Keeps track of all assigned claims until the files are closed. Notify partners via email of new assignments, and reduce their response time through automatic new-claim and next-action alerts.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Management application using ASP.NET 4.0, MVC 5, Razor, Bootstrap, Entity Framework 6.0, C#.  • Participated in Full software developed life Cycle (SDLC) all phases worked in Agile Methodology for implemented.  • Used C# to write business layer.  • Worked with Business users to gather requirements and was responsible for deliverables on time.  • Worked extensively with editable Grids. Also involved writing different event handler like data bound, change, edit, save for Grid.  • Developed presentation layer using Server-controls, HTML Controls, User Controls, and Custom Controls.  • Adapted web application to run in windows Azure against SQL Azure using Azure Queues for background processing.  • Implemented Client Side Validations using JavaScript, Used Validation Controls for both Custom Validation in Data Annotation Attributes.  • Responsible for implementing Error handling for the application using Log4Net.  • Used LINQ for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation interface screens developed using ASP.Net.  • Published Web services using C#.NET to interact with the other applications and exposed them using SOAP and HTTP.  • Extensively used JavaScript and JQuery for UI interaction, and Angular Js for the client.  • Develop dynamic ASPX web pages using ASP.NET, C, HTML, XSLT and JavaScript.  • Work with Asp.Net Web Forms, Web Services, and State Management, Caching features, Configuring optimizations and securing the web application.  • Used ADO.NET (Data Adapters, Data Sets) for database connectivity to SQL Server database.  • Created the reusable and optimized Web Services using C#.NET.  • XML for data transmission via WCF services and data manipulation using LINQ.  • Created Restful Web API's to expose the analytics data to the clients. Created message handlers in Web Api to implement global level authentication.  • These services included self-defined structures for data input and were exposed using WSDL with XML/SOAP format as well as consumption interfaces for them.  • LinQ and Stored procedures were used for data retrieval.  • Used NUnit Framework for writing test cases. Used Unity for dependency Injection.  • Performed Unit Testing of the developed component and web forms and worked closely with manual testers and automation testers, User Acceptance testers for ensuring the desired functionality is achieved.  • Experience in software configuration management using Tortoise SVN, Git and Team Foundation Server TFS.    Environment: .NET Framework, ASP.NET web forms, MVC, ADO.NET, AngularJS, XML, Web Services, IIS 6.0, Azure, SQL Server 2014, XSL, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, SVN, Web API, Win Forms, and VSS, N-Unit. Net Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA May 2015 to February 2016 Description: Major and minor enhancements to Income Revenue calculator (IRC) and Imminent Default Checklist (IDC) applications. IRC is a web application developed in ASP.NET MVC technology and Entity Framework. This application enables underwriters to capture the various income details of the borrowers, co-borrowers and non-borrowers. IDC is a checklist of all the items for a certain home-owner to qualify for imminent default status. The status will be decided based upon the answers to various questions and the data entered in the IRC application.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the complex requirements and quickly turned around the code.  • Participated in Full software Development life cycle (SDLC).  • Extensive experience of working in Test driven development (TDD) and agile development environment.  • Creating intuitive, flexible User Interfaces using Razor view engine.  • Developed/Maintained Web application using ASP .Net 4.5, MVC, C#, JavaScript, HTML5, Bootstrap and CSS3.  • Worked on ADO.NET Entity Framework and LINQ for developing the core data layers.  • Worked on MVC 4.0 applications to build the UI layer.  • Used jQuery and AJAX to do Asynchronous calls to the server.  • Extensively Created GUI User Controls using server controls of ASP.Net like Data Grids, Repeaters, Textbox, Button, Dropdown List etc.  • Developed and consumed Restful Services using WEB API.  • Worked with Team Foundation Server (TFS) control which stores all code, as well as a record of all changes and current check-outs in Project.  • Implemented SSIS and DTS packages to extract transform and load data packages.  • Developed and consumed WCF service to access Data layer components.  • Maintained and developed few complicated reports like parameter based reports, sub reports, well formatted reports, matrix reports, chart and tabular using SSRS 2012.  • Developed packages by using SSIS and developed various reports by using SSRS.  • Used validation Controls for both Custom Validation and JavaScript for Client Side Validation; Also used the new validation controls in Visual Studio.  • Worked on knowledge of Handlebars.js is used to logic-less templating engine, no logic in templates that are on the HTML page.  • Configure Azure Cloud Service for end point deployment.  • Extensively involved in stored Procedures Optimization, functions and triggers using SQL PL/SQL in SQL server 2012/2008.2005.  Environment: Visual Studio 2012, C#. Net, ASP.NET, ADO.NET ENTITY Framework, XML, IIS 7.5, Azure, REST, TFS, WCF, JavaScript, Handlebars.JS, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML, PL/SQL, SSRS, SSIS, SQL Server 2012, N-tier. FULL STACK .Net Developer Capital One - Dallas, TX June 2013 to March 2015 Description: The project is Collection Compliance Program. It's a dialer program targeted for the delinquent loans and loss mitigation loans customers of mortgage loans by calling their phone number. The contacting types are dialing and manual. Manual calling will be done by call centers. Application also allows customers with many options for managing consumer credit card finances. The project also involved making change and adding some additional features into the existing electronic banking.    Responsibilities:  • This product is basically developed in ASP.NET, ADO.NET, WEB SERVICES and C# supported by SQL server as a backend.  • Selected and implemented agile development practices according to the application requirements.  • All the user interface layers, web pages are created and integrated to maintain the data flow and data integrity using ASP.NET User controls and Web Controls.  • Attended meetings of the design logic and required components for the project.  • Maintained/Developed Business Logic in C# using Database Authentication.  • Used validation Controls for both Custom Validation and JavaScript for Client Side Validation; Also, used the new validation controls in Visual Studio.  • Used XML to transfer data between the client and Server.  • Developed web pages with data bound controls like Data Grid, Data List and Data Repeater using the methods Data Binding and Data Templating.  • Developed Reports using SSRS on daily basis.  • Develop T-SQL queries, stored procedures and Triggers for Accessing data from the SQL Server 2008.  • Involved in creating the database schema and table structures in various cycles, and developed relational database table, stored procedures, functions and triggers using SQL Server 2012 and 2008.  • Developed a powerful search functionality, which retrieves results based on search criteria across several datasets.  • Upgraded technology stack to use type script Angular and web pack build engine for the application.  • Configure Azure cloud service for end Point deployment.  • Worked on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) for developing application.  • JavaScript, jQuery, Node.Js, and AngularJS creating web page controls.  • GitHub for distributed version control of all software development.  • Created WCF services for integration with the databases.  Environment: ASP.NET, C# .NET, ADO.NET, Oracle, SQL Server 2008/2012, R2, IIS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Node.JS, AngularJS, SOA, SOAP, XML web Services, T-SQL, Azure. Jr.Net Developer Reddy Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to September 2012 Description: Enterprise Management System is a full-featured web-based system designed application that deals which provides consulting services to various clients. The most important modules in web-based portal for school and colleges, which involves maintaining the MIS for school/college. The features of the web portal include several activities of a school/college comprising General administration, Admission procedure, Content Management, Internal Assessments, Online assessments, and creation of Report cards for the inter and intra school activities & functions.    Responsibilities:  • Application was developed using ASP.NET web application & VB.NET.  • Created libraries to implement Business layer that is consumed by using VB.NET.  • Designed web pages using Master pages and created some rich server controls like Data Grid and Data List controls using ADO.NET to communicate with MS SQL Server.  • Implemented the database connectivity, which used stored procedures to retrieve information about the customers and their insurance plans.  • Session objects were used to save state and ASP.NET Caching is used extensively to cache static data.  • Produced SQL reports to address the fallouts between pre and post migrated data.  • Experience in using ORM (object-relational mapping) tools like Nhibernate and Microsoft Entity Framework.  • Created Stored Procedures for performing repetitive tasks in updating related tables.  • Responsible for Requirement analysis, timely delivery, Client interactions, Resolutions of issues.    Environment: .NET Framework 2.0& 4.0, VB.NET, ASP.NET 2.0& 4.0, Entity Framework, Nibernate, Windows XP, SQL Server 2008, HTML, Java Script, Java, Visual Studio 2005& 2010. Software Developer Essar oil - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to July 2010 Responsibilities:  • Gathered Client requirements and converting them into Technical Specifications and developed Web forms using C# .NET.  • Applications logic was developed using C# and used Html helper in a view to render the HTML content.  • Used Razor Views to enable fast Coding workflow and quickly integrate server code into HTML markup with minimum of keystrokes.  • Implemented MVC framework to reduce the complexity and to get full control over the behavior of the application.  • Used Microsoft Entity Framework Code First approach for the Data Access Layer for the ASP.NET MVC application. Designed GUI using the HTML, Java Script, CSS and Custom Controls.  • Implemented of WCF services and better logging exception management support to help in the premature detection of new problems.  • JQuery was used to validate user controls and web forms.  • Worked on .NET security features such as Form-Based Authentication and Role-Based Authorization.  • Worked on Microsoft Team Foundation Server for version control, Database server project and individual task status.  • Developed stored procedures, views and triggers for data manipulation, ensuring set up relations includes indexing, constraints and foreign keys.  • Performed unit testing using N-Unit.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET Framework 4.0/3.5, Razor, Visual Studio 2010, Ajax, T-SQL, XML, XSL, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Java Script, VB Script, Nunit, MS-Excel, SQL Server 2008R2. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Rajeshvari Engg college Skills .NET (7 years), ASP (7 years), ASP.NET (7 years), MS ASP (7 years), MS SQL SERVER (7 years), .NET Framework, ASP.NET web forms, MVC, ADO.NET, AngularJS, XML, Web Services, IIS 6.0, Azure, SQL Server 2014, XSL, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, SVN, Web API, Win Forms, and VSS, N-Unit. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLSET:  Languages ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET.  Tools & Technologies:  ADO.NET, LINQ, MVC, entity framework, Web Services, Web API, CLR, agile, Scrum, Team Foundation Server, Angular JS, Bootstrap, WCF, WPF.    Web Servers IIS 5.0, IIS 6.0, IIS 7.5  Web Development Tools ASP.NET, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, Bootstrap, MVC4, MVC5, SOAP, XML.  Development IDE Visual Studio .NET 2015/2013/2012/2010/2008/2005.  Client side Technologies JavaScript, JQuery, Node.Js, AngularJs.  Frameworks Microsoft .Net 4.6/4.5.1/4.5/ 4.0/ 3.5  Databases SQL Server 2014/2012/2008/2005, MySQL, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, T-SQL.  BI Tools SSRS, SSIS, SSAS.  Version Controller TFS, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe(VSS), SVN  Operating Systems Windows Win 10/8.1/8/7/XP/NT, Mac OS X, LINUX.