Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Tucson, AZ Highly motivated Software Engineer and Application Developer with over 10 years hands-on experience. Seeking a position working on new desktop or web applications with the opportunity to broaden my technical knowledge.    I have 9 years professional experience with Java, 5 years professional experience with JavaScript, 3 years professional experience with Scala, and familiarity with Python and PHP. My most recent work focused on proper utilization of MySQL, Guice and Akka to create a high performance web service that offers market data to downstream services. I was responsible for converting our service to MySQL from another database format, as well as implementing a caching solution that seamlessly integrated with our external service and data dependencies. I also implemented parsers for converting input files into domain data for market data, custodial data, and other service inputs.    I am authorized to work in the US for any employer. Work Experience Software Engineer SigFig - Tucson, AZ August 2016 to August 2019 Back-end development in Java, Scala, and PHP. Work focused on the parsing of large data files representing market data (securities, portfolios, etc.) and exposing that data through RESTful endpoints. Rapidly converted an architecture from Berkeley DB to MySQL. Implemented a caching view that is queried with a list of keys and any missing keys are combined into one asynchronous request to load into the cache. Senior Software Developer O'Reilly Auto Parts - Phoenix, AZ February 2013 to April 2016 Primary responsibility is to accept development tasks (JIRA tickets, feature requests) on one of the company's websites (www.firstcallonline.com) and work them to conclusion. This typically means working with Java, the JSP view templates, the Spring Framework, or the Hibernate backend. We also make heavy use of JUnit, Git, and Maven in the development environment. The site is currently undergoing a "responsive web design" revision that makes heavy use of AJAX-oriented front-ends with jQuery and Handlebars view templates, which I am also contributing to.    Secondary responsibilities include debugging production issues, participating in Agile meetings (scrums, etc.), and monitor application health and the health of external service dependencies.    I developed a sub-section of the site (an image approval client for permitting or censoring user- submitted images before showing on site publicly). Not publicly accessible.    I co-developed another sub-section (a shop referral application client). Not publicly accessible. Software Application Development Engineer MITRE - Sierra Vista, AZ May 2011 to May 2012 Part of a team responsible for developing a data-mining and -aggregation solution to a government problem. Heavy use of XML / StAX parsing technologies on top of Mark Logic (a document-oriented database). Software Engineer LSI, Inc - Houston, TX June 2010 to January 2011 Application development for SCORM (a specialized e-Learning format). Primary responsibilities were Java-oriented coding, but also aided with the ActionScript development used by the design team. (ActionScript is a Flash-oriented cousin of JavaScript.) Education Master of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems Walden University - Minneapolis, MN 2014 Bachelor of Science in Computer Systems in Computer Systems University of Arizona - Tucson, AZ 2007 Skills Java (10+ years), Spring (3 years), jquery (2 years), Git (6 years), Javascript (5 years), MYSQL (2 years), PHP (2 years), Maven (2 years), Guice (2 years), Guava (2 years), Python (1 year), Ruby (1 year), Scala (3 years), Akka (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/christopher-crossman-212aa521 https://github.com/CCrossman Assessments Problem Solving — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/5jkhp4nr84fp2giz Data Analysis — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/j3mp1l-fkz-ltx59 Email — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uxlll9u7cidagryi Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.