Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - The ICT University Manassas, VA Work Experience Web Developer The ICT University January 2017 to Present Cameroon Campus, Cameroon  • Designing, developing and maintaining the University's Website.  • Manage and maintain software applications and provide IT support to the university. Software Developer Fancyread January 2016 to Present Fancyread Apps and Hymnary Apps Louisiana  • Designing, developing and maintaining Fancyread's website and mobile apps with over 1,000,000+ downloads.  • Deployed and maintaining the website on a Linux server. Graduate Assistant, College of Business Southern University and A&M College - Baton Rouge, LA August 2017 to May 2019 • Responsible for building, updating and maintaining the website, troubleshooting office equipment.  • Holding regularly scheduled office hours and administering/grading students' examinations.  • Conduct research work in Software Development, Health and Cybersecurity. Web Developer Louisiana Commercial Realty - New Orleans, LA October 2017 to December 2017 Louisiana  • Planned, designed and developed a commercial real estate website for a Real Estate company.  • Deployed the company's website to a Linux server. Web Developer University of Buea January 2016 to May 2016 Louisiana  • Worked in a team to develop the website of College of Technology of the University of Buea. Software Developer Intern NJORKU CAMEROON LTD August 2015 to October 2015 Cameroon  • Worked in a team and wrote maintainable and scalable codes for job board websites and job search engine. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Southern University and A&M College - Baton Rouge, LA May 2019 Bachelor of Technology in Software Engineering in Analysis & Design University of Buea December 2016 Skills Javascript, PHP, Wordpress, HTML, Java, SQL, Python, CSS3, Bootstrap, Laravel Links http://linkedin.com/in/katchoua http://katchoua.com http://github.com/katchoua