Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - ThinkWare Inc • Expertise in design and development of .Net technologies of around 4.5 years of experience  in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle; Requirement gathering, designing, coding,  testing, maintaining application, functionality enhancement with ASP.NET, VB.NET,  MVC, C#.NET, ADO.NET, XML, Web Services, Window Services, WPF  • Experience in object-oriented analysis and design methodologies (OOAD) as well as  software design frameworks like MVC architecture and .NET Design.  • Develop application that allow sophisticated, effective and low cost application integration  and web applications with the use of Web Services using ASP.Net and C#.  • Web Development experience developing web applications in MVC, Java Script, Entity  Framework and TFS 2015.  • Recent Software Developer role in development of Payroll web application in MVC web API  and portals includes end-to-end design and development of client facing and workflow-based  sites.  • Extensively worked on writing Stored Procedures, Views and Database Design.  • Expert knowledge of versioning tools like TFS (Team Foundation Server).  • Extensive experience in creating rich content Web-Forms, Win-Forms (Windows  Forms), Web User Controls, Custom Control, Server Controls, Windows Service and  Web Service.  • Good hands on knowledge of OOPS (Object Oriented Programming Structure) and  Agile methodology. Work Experience Software Developer ThinkWare Inc - Cincinnati, OH March 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analysis, design, implementation, management and maintenance of full  software development life-cycle (SDLC) project.  • Developing, Maintaining, Testing, Support and deploy the MVC application using asp .net  C# along with HTML, JavaScript, Kendo UI (Telerik), JQuery, JSON, CSS  • Creating publish release build for the deploy for internal host and Client hosting using Visual  studio 2017 & 2019  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for project repository and versioning control.  • Functionality enhancement using and add new features in application for customers as required  • Created Stored Procedures to load the data coming from External systems to MSSQL  Server 2014 & 2017  • Created different business classes and interfaces using .Net Framework with Object Oriented  Programming Methodology.  • Involved in Unit testing and Bug fixing.  • Implemented procedures for interpretation of business analysis according to agile and user  story patterns.  • Designed and developed the complete front-end application using ASP.Net with C# as code  behind for the internal processing.  • Involved in Database diagram design and Tables design in SQL Server.  • Created Stored Procedures, Views and queries in SQL Server.  • Effectively communicated with application representatives from both IT and Business to resolve issues.  • Worked with the team for analyzing the requirements and to design the business rules as per  the business requirements  • Used Win-Forms to Develop GUI in C#.Net.  • Used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) in ASP.Net pages.  • Involved in Database diagram design and Tables design in SQL Server.  Environment: Visual Studio 2013/2017, ASP.NET 4.5 & 4.6, C#, MVC, HTML, Web Form, VS.NET, IIS, CSS, AJAX, Java Script, Telerik Controls, Windows Services, WPF, SQL Server,  SSRS, TFS, Windows Services Software Engineer Sun Sign Techno - Anand, Gujarat January 2017 to January 2018 India  Responsibilities:  • Developed the web pages using ASP.NET, C#, HTML, JavaScript, XML and CSS  • Developed ASP.NET User Controls adding component reusability  • Implemented Web Parts, AJAX, Web Services and Globalization in the Project  • Configure various business rules using content management server  • Delegating tasks and prioritizes workload amongst development teams and coordinating the entire project group under various project activities  • Designed the architecture of Content Management System and involved in making a Rich Interface Application  • Developed ASP.NET User Controls adding component reusability  • Performed QA, Testing and enhancement of various software applications  • Created dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and JavaScript    Environment: .Net Framework 3.5, ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2005, SQL, HTML, XML, JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap and Visual Studio 2008/2010/2012/2013/2015/2017 Developer Jagdamba Arts - Vadodara, Gujarat January 2016 to December 2016 India  Responsibilities:  • Worked on Graphics And Designs using CSS, HTML, Bootstrap  • Developed ASP.NET User Controls adding component reusability Internship Vagisha Technology September 2014 to December 2015 Gujarat Technological University - Anand, Gujarat January 2014 to June 2014 Project: Development of Database Management System and User Interface to enter  customer's inquiry or request of quote for "Spring" used in equipment  • Developed User Interface  • Developed web forms in ASP.NET using C# as backend and SQL data Server  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, and Data List for reading/updating records in the database  • Developed and designed custom controls, Master pages, Web Forms  • Involved in creation of stored procedures in MS SQL Server  • Performed module level unit testing    Sardar Patel University, Anand, India  Project: Developed system to maintain the information of hospital like patient's basic  information, admit and discharge information, staff information etc. It contains reports like patient ID wise, city wise, date wise reports    Hospital Management System  June2008-April-2009  • Developed Web base application  • Developed web forms in Visual Basic 6.0 as the code-behind language and Oracle  as data consumer  • Used Visual Basic objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, and Data List  for reading/updating records in the database  • Developed and designed custom controls, Master pages, Web Forms  *(Green Card Holder) Education Master of Computer Application in Computer Application Gujarat Technological University - Anand, Gujarat August 2014 Bachelor of Computer Application in Computer Application Sardar Patel University - Anand, Gujarat August 2009 Skills Ado, Database, Ado.net, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2000, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Sql, Ajax, Asp, Css, Iis, Iis 4, Asp.net, .net, C#, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Silverlight, HTML 5, MYSQL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages and C#, Web Forms, Win Forms, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, .Net  .NET Technologies Framework 1.1/2.0/3.0/3.5, SSIS, Silverlight, WWF, Web  Services  Web Technologies and HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, XML, AJAX, AJAX Toolkit  Scripting  Database MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2014/2017, MS-Access  Operating Systems Windows 9x/2000/2003/XP/Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8.  Windows 10/Linux  Packages MS Office 2003/2007, IIS 4.0/5.0/5.1/6.0/7.0  Version Control Tools Team Foundation Server (TFS)  Methodologies Agile, OOPS, OOAD,  Reporting Crystal Reports .Net, MS SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS)