.NET Developer .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> .NET Developer - Taazaa Inc Chicago, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience .NET Developer Taazaa Inc - Hudson, OH July 2018 to Present Project: Customer Relationship Management (CRM) & Sales Process Automation (SPA)    Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and Sales Process Automation (SPA) software suites are two key factors into driving more customers to site and retaining those customers for their future needs. CRM software provides the ability to keep constant communication with customers that allows for them to provide feedback to improve the customer service. Taazaa is proud to provide CRM solutions through platforms that include Sugar CRM, Salesforce, and more. The SPA provides a seamless transition between the stages of a life cycle of a sale. These stages range from email campaigns to customer retention.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Extensively used Visual Studio 2017, I worked on the ecommerce application  ? Involved in gathering technical & functional requirements. In every weekly meeting, we discuss the functional and non-functional requirements needed to implement in the newly introduced feature.  ? Designed the database using RDBMS SQL Server.  ? Worked on the front-page using views, html and CSS and also developed a panel to retrieve the recently browsed items by user and displayed on the page using .NET MVC, C# and SQL.  ? Involved in developing applications in C# and .NET Framework 4.5/4.0 to meet the business requirements using Visual Studio 2017.  ? Implemented Two-Way Data-binding in Angular 4 to handle the automatic synchronization of data between the model and view components for application.  ? Created responsive web design integrating JavaScript with Angular 4, media queries and ensured site design integrity and quality control consistency throughout the project's lifecycle.  ? Used ASP.NET MVC 4.5 Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the mode.  ? Implemented Code First and used LINQ to Entities to massage the Data and optimized the Query Expressions.  ? Used Entity Framework's Code First approach to create database and tables as objects along with LINQ to handle the communication with the database and to perform CRUD operations.  ? Created Inbound and outbound WCF services / Web Services to integrate with Email client and support applications using C#.NET  ? Implemented WCF services and better logging exception management support to help in the premature detection of new problems.  ? Worked on WCF Web Services using C# to authenticate lookup and retrieve the data from database.  ? Designed and created the restful web service using MVC 4.0 Web API and used JSON to read request and return response of the web service.  ? Created and maintained database objects like complex Stored Procedures, Cursors, and Tables, Views, User Defined Functions, in SQL Server 2016 for inserting/Updating/Deleting the data into the relational tables.  ? Used T-SQL in order to design and tune T-SQL to interface with the Database and other applications in the most efficient manner and created stored Procedures for the business logic using T-SQL.  ? Performed End-to-End testing by using NUnit, troubleshooting, debugging, integration testing, regression testing and performance testing and analyzed the results to justify validation.  Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2017, C#.NET 4.5/4.7, ASP.NET 4.5, MVC (5.0) LINQ, Entity Framework 6, T-SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Server 2016, WCF, WPF, Web API, Angular 4, JavaScript, jQuery, Redux, IIS, Azure, AccuRev, AxoSoft, NUnit .NET Developer Molina HealthCare Inc - Long Beach, CA July 2017 to June 2018 Molina Healthcare has been selected for several duals demonstration projects as part of a member-centered health care approach for people who are eligible for both Medicaid and Medicare. Appeals Grievances and Denials Application (AnG) deals with tracking and managing appeals, grievances and complaints from healthcare members and providers. Denial module of the application manages authorization denials from QNXT application and link them to appeals. Application is integrated with Cincom Eloquence Tool for seamless letter generation. Application has front-end which provides user-friendly interfaces.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Participated on implementing the project activities as per the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and implemented activities by using Agile/SCRUM methodologies involving creation of product backlogs and iterations for design, coding and delivery.  ? Involved in Daily meeting with the manager helped me to recognize the requirements functional as well as non-functional.  ? Developed Medicare and Medicaid (Healthcare) application 'Appeals, Grievances and denials' using N-Tier architecture utilizing C#, MVC4, Entity Framework 5/6, LINQ, Web API, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS and Bootstrap UI.  ? Used Dependency injection for injecting various Angular services to Angular Controllers to enable AJAX calls. Also Implemented AngularJS Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server.  ? Created AngularJS Routing to connect different controllers to the views which allows the single-page application (SPA).  ? Used AJAX for Partial Page Updating, Invisible Data Retrieval, Constant Updating, Smooth Interfaces, Simplicity and Rich Functionality.  ? Developed dashboard using Visual Studio 2017 for the ticketing system.  ? Worked on the data table which stores the information of the patients using SQL SERVER.  ? The architectural pattern that was used to develop the dashboard application was developed using .NET MVC by separating model for the data, view for the user interaction and controller for the application using C# for the functionalities and SQL for retrieving and storing the data from the database.  ? Created Entity classes, relationships between entity classes using Entity Framework Code first approach to manage relational data as objects and used LINQ to massage the data and perform CRUD operations.  ? Worked on improving performance and avoiding SQL injections by using LINQ expressions on multiple data sources.  ? Developed easy to maintain RESTful Document generation services utilizing Web API to generate simple to complex (PDF/WORD/TIFF) document while providing integration capability to enterprise content management tool File Net.  ? Involved in Data Modeling, Database Design on SQL Server and proficient in using T-SQL for developing complex stored procedures, Triggers, Tables, Views, User-Defined Functions, SQL joins, Index and query writing.  ? Implemented Unit Testing through NUnit and created test cases for all functions used in the application.  ? Hosting of Windows WEB API's, Asp.NET applications in IIS and creating Cloud Instance using AWS for deployment in product environment.  ? Utilized the TFS source control software to keep track of new and past versions of code written in my application.  Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, C#, MVC 4/5, Web API 2.0, Entity Framework 5/6, LINQ, Angular JS 1.6, Bootstrap 3.0 UI, Telerik UI, Kendo UI, HTML 5, CSS 3, SQL Server 2012, NUnit, Microsoft Visual Studio 2015, Team Foundation Server (TFS), SSIS, SSRS Software Engineer Green Petal Ventures - IN August 2015 to July 2016 Worked on e-commerce website and the website was all about organic and natural products. Organic products with those regular one's the same way the look of website and its feel contributes a lot to the buyers who come online on our organic product store.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) starting from Requirements gathering and performing object-oriented analysis, design, implementation and development using Agile methodology with daily scrums.  ? Using Visual Studio 2016, I worked on a real-time inventory management mobile application. In this application I was responsible to work for one module that is field officer.  ? Responsible to design the database for the field officer module using SQL SERVER. Also prepare the stored procedures.  ? Used .NET MVC architectural pattern by diving the application in 3 parts, C# for the backend functionalities, SQL for the databases and integrated 3rd party WEB API for the interface between desktop and mobile application.  ? Developed the application using N-Tier architecture using MVC 5, Entity Framework 5/6, LINQ, Web API, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2, Typescript and Bootstrap UI.  ? Used Dependency injection for injecting various Angular services to Angular Controllers to enable AJAX calls. Also Implemented Angular 2 Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server.  ? Designed new interface screens and implemented application logic under ASP.NET MVC and effectively created custom routes and added them to ASP.NET MVC routes collection.  ? Responsible for designing and developing the UI using Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  ? Developed the client-side views on angular 2 and typescript.  ? Created/Modified Angular 2.0 components, by using Typescript we create the bigger projects and converts to JS files to modify or creating new JS files  ? Worked with JQuery and typescript for the development of the UI.  ? Used Entity Framework's Code First approach to create database and tables as objects along with LINQ to handle the communication with the database and to perform CRUD operations.  ? Created various RESTful services using WEB API to return serialized JSON data which are later consumed through Angular 2 services.  ? Created various web Services, WCF services and consumed those services from the client UI by adding web reference for the services.  ? Created and maintained database schema, tables, views, stored procedures and indexes for better performance using SQL Server.  ? Developed reports using complex formulas and to query the database to generate different types of ad-hoc reports using SSRS.  ? Utilized the TFS source control software to keep track of new and past versions of code written in my application.  ? Involved in working on test driven development (TDD), Unit testing, System testing and User Acceptance test using NUnit testing framework and responsible for writing test scripts and scenarios throughout the project.  Environment: ASP.NET MVC, .NET Framework 4.5, Web API, C#, ADO.NET, XML, JavaScript, Typescript, Angular 2, Entity Framework 5/6, AJAX, CSS 3, HTML 5 IIS, TFS, SQL Server 2014/2012/2008, SSRS, Agile, NUnit, WCF Junior Software Developer Emanar Technologies - IN April 2014 to July 2015 Worked on 2 projects. One among them was the company website where we came up with the amazing web pages functionality. Another project was real time inventory mobile application for which my team was responsible for handling the admin panel.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Effectively involved in different phases of SDLC including Designing, Programming, Testing and Documentation.  ? Using Microsoft Visual Studio 2015 as an IDE, developed single page website for the company using asp.NET framework. My responsibility was to create the web pages for home and products module.  ? Every morning, my duty was to discuss the functional and non-functional requirements with the manager before going ahead with the code implementations.  ? The database contained 6 tables and my responsibility was to design the database using SQL SERVER.  ? Used C# for backend functionalities, HTML, CSS for designing web pages and SQL for storing and retrieving data.  ? Used C# advanced concepts like Automatic properties, Anonymous types, Lambda Expressions, Extension Methods.  ? Used Web Services to fetch data required and work accordingly, also used the concepts of Serialization.  ? Used LINQ to build set of operations, parameters and expressions (Binary, Unary, Lambda) during execution (aimed at "Querying") a set of data from SQL Server.  ? Used SOAP to implement Web Services and consumed and published XML web services in the application.  ? Implemented business logic/rules using WCF services and integrated with the UI components.  ? Developed Entity framework based database access layer using ADO.NET and Entity Framework.  ? Developed module which deals with validating user, changing passwords and searching of information depending upon priority of user in site using ASP.NET  ? Used the ASP.NET State Management techniques like Session State, View State to retain the values between the pages transactions, where Session is managed in out Proc mode.  ? Wrote JavaScript code for validating the simple control instead of sending them to the server side which was degrading the performance of the web pages.  ? Extensive use of Web Services, SOAP, XML, XSL to expose the reports to facilitate information sharing.  ? Generated various reports using Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), developed reports by pulling data from various sources and presenting in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and used Datasets for the SSRS reports.  ? Worked with Product management on product feature requirements definition and refinement.  ? Used TFS for Agile Planning and collaboration.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration testing and Regression testing by applying test cases.  Environment: Visual Studio 2012 C#, SOAP, ASP.NET 4.5, Webservices, ADO.NET, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, LINQ to SQL, IIS 7.5, AJAX, XML, SQL Server 2008, Team Foundation Server, Unit Testing, SSRS Education Master's Degree in Information Technology & Management in Information Technology & Management Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL 2018 Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology Gujarat Technological University 2014 Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, Javascript, Bootstrap, Wcf, Reporting tools, Vb.net, Asp, Iis, Asp.net, Web services, Ado, Ado.net, Ado.net entity framework, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Oracle, Sql Additional Information ? Result-driven IT Professional with referable & strong experience on Software Development Methodologies AGILE Scrum, TDD and Waterfall in all stages of SDLC and strong working experience in N-tier architecture, Architectural Patterns ASP.NET Web Forms\MVC and strong applicability of Design Patterns.  ? Highly skilled in developing Single page applications (SPA) and client-side functionalities with various rich UI and responsive features along with performance functionalities in the web applications using advanced JavaScript/UI frameworks like AngularJS (2.0/1.6/1.5), JSON, XML, Bootstrap 3.2, AJAX, HTML (5/4), DHTML, XML/XSL/XSLT, CSS (3/2).  ? Proven ability in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using WCF services with Service Contracts, Data Contracts, Operation Contracts, Message Contracts, Multiple Message Patterns and Security of the services.  ? In depth knowledge on Rest services using ASP.NET WEB API and C#, used WEB API (1.x, 2) to provide services to HTTP Requests, good understanding on design, deep functional experience in creating, deploying and consuming REST-FUL Services and provides attribute routing, where we can use have both HTTP VERB and action based routing on the same controller with WEB API 2.  ? Proficient knowledge in Entity Framework 6.0/4.3 Code First and Database First approaches with ASP.NET MVC 5.0/4.0 to implement CRUD operations, data massaging, Fluent API with LINQ to Entities  ? Experience in Angular (2/4) by implementing routing, components, services and directives on the User Interface development.  ? Expertise in Database design (RDBMS), programming, implementation and development using SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, database related work primarily creating complex Stored Procedure, Views, Triggers, Functions, T-SQL, Indexes, Cursors.  ? Experience in version control systems such as Team Foundation Server (TFS), VSTS, Clear Case and Subversion for active tracking of work progress and maintaining code repository  ? Experience with Reporting Tools in writing and tuning with better design and much information in different layouts using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)/SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Crystal Reports and creating various types of reports like drill down, Parameterized, Cascading, Conditional, Table, Matrix, Chart and Sub Reports.    Technical competencies:    .NET Technologies: ASP.NET 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, ASP.NET Core, ASP.NET MVC 5.0/4.0/3.0, WCF, Web API, ADO.NET Entity Framework 6.0/5.0/4.1, LINQ, Web Services, C# 3.0/4.0/4.5, VB.NET 10.0/9.0/8.0  Web Technologies: JavaScript, JQuery 1.0/2.0/3.0, Angular JS 1.3/1.4/1.5/2.0, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SiteCore 7.2  IDE Tools: Visual Studio 2017/2015/2013/2012/2010/2008, SQL Server Management Studio 2005/2008/2012  Databases: SQL Server 2012,2008, 2008R2, Oracle 11g/10g/9i, Microsoft Azure  Reporting Tools: SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS 2008/2005), Crystal Reports (2010/9/8.5/8).  Operating Systems: Windows 95/ 98/2000, Windows 7, Windows 10, Unix  Web Servers: Microsoft IIS (8.0/7.0/6.0)  Version Control Tools: Team Foundation Server 2013/2010/2008, GitHub