Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Full Stack Software Developer Los Angeles, CA http://www.lenonlopez.com/  Experienced Full Stack software developer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Verys - Santa Ana, CA November 2017 to Present Current Project:   Client:: Riot Games  Technology: C++, Javascript, React, RXjs, Perforce, Swarm,     Previous Projects:   Classy (https://www.classy.org/)  App: Classy Services (https://www.classyservices.org/)  Technology: React, Node, MySql, AWS (Ec2, S3, SES, CloudFront)  Classy Services is a set of tools in a centralized web application that would allow Classy's customers to do a variety of things, for example:  1. make donations  2. query reports  3. manage recurring donations  We also worked on their main application at www.classy.org. The main focus was adding screen reader support to the donation, and team creation user experiences.    Customer: Disconnect Now (http://www.disconnectnow.com/)  App: Disconnect Now  Lead developer on a hybrid mobile application  Technology: JavaScript, Cordova, PHP, MongoDB    Customer: Blue Star Sports (https://www.bluestarsports.com/)  App: League Lineup  Integrating a new payment flow into a legacy application. This application needed to use the customer's custom built payment API, while allowing current users of the application to keep using PayPal.   Technology: JavaScript, Jquery, MySQL, and since it was quite legacy it required delving into Classic ASP.    Customer: Blue Star Sports (https://www.bluestarsports.com/)  Apps: Association Connect, Club and League Connect, Team Connect  Building and refactoring new segments of the customers legacy application in modern technology, Integrating the customer's AWS Cognito based SSO solution, and General UI face lift.  Technology: JavaScript, React, PHP, and PostgresQL Full Stack Software Developer University of California, Irvine Health - Orange, CA April 2016 to November 2017 I have been developing enhancements to my current team's premier, and award winning, software suite. Although I am bound by NDA from describing in detail the nature of the development. The suite is focused on giving hospitals the ability to micromanage down to the room level of a clinic. It allows for a multitude of analytic data points. All this while being extremely useful to front line staff.    The application has been developed using JavaScript, C# .Net, T-SQL while using libraries and frameworks such as bootstrap, material design, jQuery, Angular 1, and SignalR.     It is currently in the process of getting legal protection under copyright law as well getting tested for market viability and licensing. Full Stack Software Developer SoCapTech - Los Angeles, CA October 2015 to April 2016 Serving as a Full Stack Software developer at SoCapTech (http://mgmdev.azurewebsites.net) building their flagship product, MoGoMe. MGM is a Healthcare application utilized as a real-time lifeline connection between people and Social Service departments. The application allows for custom client surveys and forms, contact management, emotional polling/questionnaires backed by reporting and analysis, backend role administration, goal management, file management, and a geo-fenced based activity tracking that provides for client safety while retaining user privacy.    Our team utilized Visual Studio 2015, C#, .Net 4.5, MVC 5, web api 2.0, Json Serialization, AJAX, IIS 7.5, SQL Server 2014, T-SQL, TFS,Angular, jQuery, Bootstrap 3.x, CSS3, Google Maps API, AWS S3, SendGrid, Attribute Routing & Trello.    We followed Agile development practices with daily stand-ups and regular product demo days with product stakeholders. Education Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy University of California-Riverside - Riverside, CA 2011 to 2013 Associate of Arts (A.A.) in Philosophy Riverside City College - Riverside, CA January 2005 to June 2011 Skills Javascript (3 years), C# (3 years), SQL, AngularJs (3 years), JQuery (3 years), HTML (3 years), CSS (3 years), Visual Studio (3 years), Team Foundation Server (3 years), Asp.NET (3 years), MVC (3 years), WebAPI 2.0 (3 years), Ajax (3 years), JSON (3 years), .NET (3 years), AWS S3 (2 years), Agile Development (3 years), Ionic (3 years), AWS (2 years), Angular (3 years), Node (2 years), PHP (1 year), React (2 years), AWS EC2 (2 years), AWS CloudFront (2 years), AWS Lambda (2 years), AWS Route 53 (2 years), AWS RDS (2 years), AWS VPC (2 years), CircleCi (1 year), Continuous Integration (2 years), Continuous Deployment (2 years), MySQL, Git, HTML 5 Awards Winner, Uber Incubation Package - "BassFace" (https://bassface.dance/) 2016-06 Won one of the top prizes in 5-day competition during 2016 EDMBiz Conference. Our winning   entry, "BassFace," is a mobile responsive web app that filters nearby musical events by genre. We   utilized .Net 4.6, MVC 5, WebApi 2.2, C#, MS Azure, SQL Server 2014, ADO.Net, Git, Angular.js,   jQuery, Razor, AJAX, Bootstrap 3, CSS3, HTML5, Google Maps API, Uber Universal Links. Summa Cum Laude 2013-06 University of California, Riverside  Top 2 percent of my class.  GPA 3.92 Certifications/Licenses Amazon Web Services Certified Developer – Associate February 2017 to February 2019 Link to view the cert:  http://bit.ly/2qztKFk