Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - WellCare .Net Software Developer with background in computer science and experience in challenging working environments. Solid hands-on  experience from redesigning existing software to solving technical problems with new systems. Very open-minded regarding learning  new technologies, team-player, passionate for new computer languages and also helping peers to grow and be better and have pride in  code base developed. Work Experience Software Developer WellCare - Tampa, FL April 2019 to Present Contract)    • Gather business requirements from business owners; mockups were utilized for UI/UX  • Created and developed Id Card System for internal operations for 8 million customers (Front and Back end).  • Built several API's from scratch according to business requirements.  • Full stack implementation in all areas of development cycle. (Listed below)    Stack used: Visual Studio 2017, CSS3, Asp.Net, HTML5, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Web-API, jQuery, C#., SQL, TFS. Software Developer Bond-Pro - Tampa, FL January 2019 to April 2019 Contract)    • Updated company presentation layer based on mockups and requirements using AngularJS 1.7x  • Fixed bugs and refactored coupled code based, reported directly to CTO, daily agile meetings.  • Collaborated with development team to organize workflow and prioritize work pending.    Stack used: VS-2017, CSS, Asp.Net, HTML, JS, OOP, Bootstrap, Web-API, Agile, Azure Dev-Ops, Angular 2-7, Git, C#. Software Developer Health Axis Corp - Tampa, FL August 2018 to January 2019 • Quickly grasped project concepts and terminology so that I could provide effective solutions the business could understand.  • Worked on the automation of deployments using Team Foundation Server to maintain complex code bases over multiple  releases continuously.  • Involved in the complete Application life cycle, from Planning Staging and pushing the code to Dev and Qa.  • Existing and new code was implemented using AngularJS 1.5 and Angular 2. Fixed bugs on the back-end using C#.    Stack used: Visual Studio 2017, CSS, TFS, HTML, JavaScript, Object Oriented programing, Bootstrap, Angular 2-7, C#. Net Software Developer Data-Age Systems - Clearwater, FL January 2018 to June 2018 Contract)    • Took over complex project from 3rd party offshore team and implemented proper SOLID techniques  • Resolved software and code implementations, fixed back-end and front-end bugs  • Utilized agile systems to organize flow of code maintenance and guidelines  • Collaborated with development team, getting assistance and supporting Senior developers and helping Junior developers to understand and resolve complex problems at hand    Stack used: Visual Studio 2017, TFS, Asp.Net, HTML, SQL 2014, OOP, Bootstrap, Web-API, Agile. .Net Software Developer National Payment Corp - Tampa, FL December 2016 to January 2018 • Utilized Visual Basic for data integration, many different formats and patterns changed to HTML & XSLT  • Created Web Forms to automate daily processes and speed up systems.    • Existing and new code was implemented. Tax forms for all States in the US were integrated into mobile website allowing a rich user interface utilizing the latest front-end systems using JavaScript and jQuery    Stack used: Visual Studio 2015-2017, CSS, TFS, Asp.Net, Visual Basic, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL server 2008-2014, Object  Oriented programing, Bootstrap, XML, XSLT, Web Forms.