Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Perth Amboy, NJ Software Engineer with 3 years of work experience, pursuing a Graduate program (Master of Science in Information Systems) and specializing in Data Analytics, seeking an opportunity to work in a fast-paced organization that believes in continuous learning. Work Experience Software Developer Infogain India Pvt Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra November 2013 to October 2016 • ·    Worked as a part of the core team of CTMS (Clinical Trial Management System) and developed customized workflows, landing pages, Lists, Libraries, web parts and many other components in SharePoint 2010 & 2013.  • ·    Closely monitored SharePoint workflows and also made custom workflows with customized e-mail notifications and push notifications, automated and recorded entries into lists and creating alerts to the owners of lists and libraries.  • ·    Handled deployment activities for sprint delivery by performing SharePoint Admin related tasks. Developed shell scripts for secure deployment of deliverable components in various environments like Dev, UAT and prod.  • ·    Developed multiple modules within project with test cases and created documentation for newly developed features.  • ·    Majorly worked with Microsoft SQL server and wrote stored procedures and SQL queries for database operations, used ASP.NET framework with expertise in C# language. Also integrated data to and from SQL to web applications using JSON objects.  • ·    Created customized Landing pages with dynamic tabbed web parts using javascript, jquery, html,CSS in SharePoint.  • ·    Guided newly joined juniors in the team with timely trainings and recorded videos for training purposes.  • ·    Handled Requirement gathering, Creating Stories, assigning story points, creating tasks and subtasks for stories.  • ·    During maintenance period of released project, handled critical ticket resolving tasks within estimated duration. Software Intern Novire Technologies - Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2012 to March 2013 • ·    Worked as a part of the Mobile Application for Intelligent Vehicle tracking Systems (MIVTS) for this new startup.  • ·    Handled application development using Java language.  • ·    Implemented testing for MIVTS using mobile IDE. Education Master's in Information Systems New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ September 2018 to Present Bachelor's in Computer Science Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2009 to May 2013 Skills Asp.Net (3 years), Git (Less than 1 year), Javascript (1 year), HTML 5 (1 year), MYSQL (4 years), Java (2 years), Python (Less than 1 year), Microsoft TFS (3 years), Jquery (Less than 1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year) Links https://github.com/vinisha99 Awards Wall Of Fame 2015-11 Received Wall of Fame award by Infogain Corporation in 2015 for developing an automated solution to detect and alert the users on an action that would lead to failure. All Rounder 2016-05 Received the "All-Rounder" award by BioClinica(Client) for efficiently handling multiple roles within the project during a critical release.