Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Intello Group Inc California City, CA • 2+ year of experience as Software developer.  • Well organized person with strong interpersonal skills. Quick Learner, Adaptable and willing to take on new responsibilities individually as well as a team.  • Self-motivated, team player and keen to learn new technologies.  • Engaged in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle including analysis, architecture design, development, enhancements, and testing.  • Good experience with Core Java, Javascript, HTML, CSS, and jQuery.  • Familiar with networking concepts and protocols such as TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP.  • Good knowledge of Software Development Methodologies such as Agile, Test Driven Development, and Scrum. Work Experience Java Developer Intello Group Inc - Irvine, CA January 2018 to Present Environment: HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, Java, AngularJS, MongoDB, Microsoft Visio, Sublime    • Part of a team which developed an information sharing portal where multiple users can upload their code for the ongoing project and shares it with the team.  • Contributed in various phases of SDLC including requirement gathering design analysis and code implementation.  • Remodeled entire website with CSS styles for a consistent look and felt across all browsers and all pages.  • Maintained Web 2.0 design features such as simplicity, fewer columns, separate top sections, fonts, simple navigation, logos, gradients, reflections and more.  • Coordinated with clients in technical/non-technical terms to gather requirements and worked closely with programmers for project requirement analysis. Jr. Software Developer Ayant Software PVt.Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat January 2015 to May 2016 Environment: Java, Android, HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, XML, MySQL, AngularJS, Microsoft Visio    • Developed a Real-Time Application which helps keep track of employees in the field, assign daily tasks, monitor progress and generate a monthly report of all services.  • Designed website for Admin Module using CSS styles along with jQuery and AngularJS components.  • Led a team of 5 people for configuring and managing the project.  • Integrated Facebook and Google login page. Created UML diagrams such as class, activity, use-case, and sequence using modeling tools.  • Performed debugging and troubleshooting on the software application. Document detailed requirements using Behavior-Driven Design principles. Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering California State University - Fullerton, CA Bachelor of Technology in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Indus University - Ahmedabad, Gujarat Skills Android studio, C++, Html, Javascript, Visio, Eclipse, Java, jquery, Android, Angularjs, Css, Tomcat, Web server, Database, Mysql, Cisco, Wireshark, Linux, Matlab, Microsoft visio, Hibernate, Java J2Ee, Spring, JSP, J2Ee, JEE Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: Java, C, C++, Android  Web Server: Tomcat, Xampp  Web Programming: JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, AngularJS  Operating System: Windows, Linux, Android  Database Management: MySQL  IDE/Tools  : NetBeans IDE, Android Studio, Eclipse, Matlab, MS Visio, Cisco Packet Tracer, Wireshark, Sublime, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visio