Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Long Beach, CA I am a Software Developer. I’ve worked in Front End technology (Angular) and Back End technology (Spring/Java). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Mercury Insurance - Brea, CA July 2017 to Present Technical skill showcased:     Back End:  • Utilized Maven for build/dependency management and Jenkins as a continuous integration tool.   • Harnessed Java 8, Spring Core and Spring Boot for dependency injection.  • Enhanced thread safe application servlets deployed into Tomcat alongside Jersey for RESTful   API’s.  • Used JUnit, Mockito/Powermock for unit testing to gain excellent line and branch coverage to improve code quality.   • Coded to Spring Properties hooked up to an Apache Cassandra Database enabling configurable code via database values.   • Wrote DDL and DML to query/enhance a SQL database.  • Configured and maintained Tomcat servlets with PuTY and WinSCP.    Front End:  • Leveraged Angular best practices for efficient modular component based design.  • Used NGRX to manage the state with RXJS Observables according to the Redux pattern.   • Utilized excellent component design with dependency injection and proper module set up.  • Implemented one way data binding with proper directives, interceptors and services.  • Enforced good routing that was used in conjunction with the API Gateway and Oauth applications.    Initiative Project Contributions :  API Gateway and Oauth Security Web Applications (Back End)  • Added new RESTful Spring Security Oauth 2.0 enhanced services to the API Gateway application.  • Enhanced an API Gateway application by adding business logic and creating a Roadside Assistance API.  • Integrated an Oauth 2.0 application (uses Spring Security and Cassandra) with the API Gateway.   Enterprise Information Services Web Applications (Back End)  • Improved a Consumer Data Management app with restful service that consumed several APIs to analyze customer data.   • Designed/Implemented Spring Jersey Restful API’s for others and integrated with existing API’s to enhance applications.   • Powered an existing API by using the Java Reflection & Concurrent API for parallel tasks & Netflix Hystrix for fault tolerance.                  Customer Web Pay application (Front End)  • Supported integration within a customer portal application and main website. Used directives to account for different flows.  • Enhanced app to call API Gateway and Oauth to make secure/validated/authorized requests to the back end when events are triggered.  • Maintained an intermediary Spring Boot app that the API gateway makes requests to which calls a payments processing back end.  • Used angular forms to give customers a simple intuitive secure interface to make payments and save payment cards. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science California State University-Long Beach - Long Beach, CA October 2014 to May 2016 General Education Long Beach City College - Long Beach, CA August 2011 to November 2013 Skills Javascript, MySQL, HTML 5, Java, CSS3, Spring, Mongo DB, CSS, Git, SASS, React, Angular, Jquery