Test Analyst Test Analyst Test Analyst ? 3+ Years of Experience in IT Industry as Test Analyst involving manual and automation testing.  ? Experience working in Agile Scrum methodology.  ? Involved in Test script analysis, design reviews, test suites build & execution, bug report & verification.  ? As Test analyst performed system, acceptance, regression, load and functional/performance testing on the application using both automated and manual testing methods.  ? Validate, verify and communicate software issues through careful and thoroughly documented testing.  ? Identified, documented and reported bugs, errors, interoperability flaws and other issues within proprietary software applications developed for Citi North America global user base.  ? Demonstrated methodical, detail-oriented and thorough approach to all assignments while adhering to compressed timelines. Complete all assignments on or ahead of schedule.  ? Consistently recognized for excellent problem-solving and analytical skills by programmers, project managers and supervisors.  ? Worked collaboratively with QA, development and business groups to complete comprehensive testing on major new releases.  ? Analyze system design specifications, developed test plans, test scenarios and test cases to cover overall quality assurance testing Work Experience Test Analyst Oracle Financial Services Software Ltd Title September 2006 to October 2009 Citibank Trade Services provides services to corporate customer and financial institutions. Corporate customer products include Import Letter of Credit, Standby Letters of Credit, Advance Payments, Guarantees Trade Acceptances and discounting, Documentary Collections and purchase order advising/settlement. Financial Institutions services include Export Letter of Credit advising/confirmation, Reimbursement Authorization/Payment & In sourcing of their trade office processing. TRIMS stands for Trade Record Information Management System. It consists of two main parts viz. TRIMS Processing and TRIMS Imaging.    As a test analyst.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the business requirements, application and its components  • Creating a test plan document detailing the functionalities that will be tested and the approach to testing.  • Attend meetings with developers and managers for risk assessment of product.  • Providing estimates on testing deliverables.  • Create test case document that described test cases and test steps for the different functionalities and presented the same to client.  • Create an extensive set of test data to cover all possible user scenarios.  • Coordinate with team members through daily project meetings and identified issues and offered resolutions.  • Good working knowledge in analyzing changes and identifying areas in application to be regression tested.  • Participated in Sprint Planning meetings to identify the strategic features.  • Provide continuous maintenance and development of bug fixes and patch.  • Ensure that specific elements of the product are thoroughly tested per the Test Plan documentation. Software Developer Oracle Financial Services Software Ltd Title January 2006 to September 2006 Citibank Trade Services provides services to corporate customer and financial institutions. Corporate customer products include Import Letter of Credit, Standby Letters of Credit, Advance Payments, Guarantees Trade Acceptances and discounting, Documentary Collections and purchase order advising/settlement. Financial Institutions services include Export Letter of Credit advising/confirmation, Reimbursement Authorization/Payment & In sourcing of their trade office processing. TRIMS stands for Trade Record Information Management System. It consists of two main parts viz. TRIMS Processing and TRIMS Imaging.    As a developer.    Responsibilities:  • Do the code fixing & code review.  • Conformed to programming standards while coding scripts in applications; worked in coordination with quality team to ensure adherence to required standards.  • Gather and implement various change requirements for the modules.  • Integration of the various modules.  • Development, Unit testing and Bug fixing.  • Gather and implement various change requirement of this module.  • Interact with existing the development team to understand the already existing numerous lines of code. Skills DATABASE, ACCESS 2000, MS ACCESS, MS ACCESS 2000, SQL SERVER, Clearquest