Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Ridgeland, MS Experienced software engineer with a demonstrated 5 years history in the telecommunication and healthcare systems and solutions industries. My focus currently is full stack web development but I also have experience in server side application development. My "can do" attitude and thirst for self-improvement enables me to tackle new tasks head on. As an innovator of next-generation solutions, systems and applications, I give companies a competitive edge while producing outstanding results. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer American Healthtech August 2018 to Present • Engineered new application features to fit customerneeds and implemented market requirements and functional specifications. Used JIRA to track development and triage tickets using agile/scrum methodologies.   • Modified, analyzed and designed enhancements and fixes to existing applications to stay competitive in the healthcare IT market.  • Participated in quality reviews and ensured traceability of the application design changes to the requirements.   • Triaged support tickets and implements core fixes while adhering to business guidelines.  • Developed new components, services and RESTFUL APIs to update and maintain web application using technologies such as Angular, ASP.NET MVC, Redux, MySQL and Node.js.  • Used Git and TFS for source control. Software Developer C Spire June 2015 to August 2018 • Maintained and developed new software applications individually and as part of a teamincluding analyzing, coding, testing, debugging and documenting processes and solutions in Bash, Perl, Python, C/C++, and Java.  • Transmitted and parsed XML from SOAP APIs to develop and maintain provisioning and mediationsystems using Oracle and Netezza databases and used Jenkins for build management.  • Participated in release deployments for new and upgrades systems, applications and processes and used Ganglia and Splunk to monitor Linux/Unix server health during maintenance deployments.   • Used HTML, CGI, CSS, and Perl to update, maintain, and add webpages to internal site used by support to aid in the provisioning, correction of provisioning, and mediation management.   • Served as a core group member in major customer impacting and improvement projects, such as VOWIFI, Static IP and Test Mode Billing, while also ensuring the alignment of process, technology and business objectives.   • Developed, maintained and supported current applications and systems with new procedures based on gathered requirements. Analyzed, tested and maintained the health of systems to strengthen quality, integrity and functionality of business-critical applications.  • Performed on-call duty and supported QA testing by providing documentation, programing test results, system flows and setup for testing data.  • Instrumental in development of new plans, provisioning processes, mediation, and billing applications that secured a large state contract and increase revenue and overall customer base.  • Used JIRA to track support and development task. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Jackson State University Skills Git, ASP, HTML 5, MySQL, Javascript Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jatorietowers Additional Information Perl/ CGI  Python  HTML  CSS  Bootstrap  .NET  SQL  Angular  C/C++  ASP.NET MVC  Experience with application state management via NgRx, Redux  Experience with source control tools such as Git and TFS  Working knowledge of Jenkins deployment tool  Knowledge of Agile/Scrum processes  Visual Studio/ VS Code  Experience with Linux/Unix  Typescript/JavaScript  Node.js/ NPM  JIRA  RESTful API  Problem Solving  Good Time Management  Critical Thinking  Adaptability  Team Player  Customer Oriented  Attention to Detail  Fast Learner  Self-Motivated  Strong Work Ethic  Organized  Professional  Reliable