Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - General Motors Sterling Heights, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer General Motors - Warren, MI January 2018 to Present Work in the infotainment group with the following responsibilities:    • Contribute as designer and developer to design, code and release software for Android target  • Participate in the implementation of Applications and Services  • Participate in improving and maintaining existing Infotainment software  • Participate in feature requirements analysis, and test-case design review  • Participate in feature prototype building, testing, and refinement  • Participate in improving and tailoring existing drivers, stack and applications  • Provide clear and complete documentation based on the definition of the software development process  • Collaborate with other engineers by using Scrum/Agile development process  • Analyze CAN log data    Skills Used  Android, Java, TDD, Scrum/Agile, Pair Programming, GIT Software Developer General Motors - Warren, MI January 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  Participate in daily stand up meetings. Participate in full development life cycle of software developed. Develop software according to customer requirements. Read and write technical documents for software. Writing Java code to perform data migration to new system. Writing Java code to setup inbound interfaces to feed data into an application. Migrate components from one sharepoint site to another.    Skills Used  Java, JavaScript, Agile Development, and basic MySQL. Software Engineering Intern Harman/Kardon April 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities  Connectivity Verification testing tickets, running sanity tests, and running sensor tests. Writing and running automated tests for Navigation using Python and Java. Training others to write and run automated tests. Customer Service Representative MicroCenter March 2013 to April 2013 Responsibilities  Used a POS system to help customers with their purchases.    Skills Used  Retail, POS system. Pharmacist Technician CVS/Pharmacy July 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities  Used a POS system to help customers with their purchases. Filled prescriptions. Inventory management.    Skills Used  POS System, Retail, HIPPA Sales Representative In The Mix Productions - Warren, MI July 2012 to October 2012 Responsibilities  Help customers place orders for printing jobs, accepted payment for orders, answer phone calls. I also closed up at the end of the day by counting all incoming cash, credit cards, and etc and then balanced the sheets.    Skills Used  Retail Education Master's in Software Engineering & Information Technology Oakland University - Auburn Hills, MI January 2017 to April 2019 Bachelors in Computer Science WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY - Detroit, MI 2012 to 2014 OAKLAND COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Royal Oak, MI 2009 to 2011 LAMPHERE HIGH SCHOOL - Madison Heights, MI 2005 to 2009 Skills Android (1 year), Object-Oriented Programming (4 years), Agile Software Development (4 years), Java (3 years), C# (Less than 1 year), Unity3D, Python (Less than 1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), HTML, CSS, JavaScript (Less than 1 year), CAN (Less than 1 year)