Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer (Looking for new opportunities) Carrboro, NC Software Developer with a demonstrated history of working with a front-end development team in the marketing and advertising industry. Strong professional skilled in modern JavaScript using tools like React, Redux, MongoDB, NodeJS, React Native and more. Work Experience Web Developer JEREMYSAID - Durham, NC February 2019 to Present Skills & Tools: Git, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, NodeJS, React, Google AppScript, PHP, HubSpot.  ? Developing a React project integrating Google AppScript and Sheets APIs to automate tasks for our  marketing team.  ? Implement and maintain content management systems (primarily WordPress), including installation, configuration, troubleshooting. Software Developer APEX SYSTEMS at AT&T - Durham, NC May 2018 to January 2019 Skills & Tools: Git, React, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Redux, CSS.  ? Developed and delivered solutions for a proof-of-concept application for AT&T tier-2 technicians using  React, Typescript, Git, Gulp.js, Node.js, Webpack, and Bootstrap and CSS.  ? Unit testing React components using Jest and Enzyme  ? Collaborating with other engineers in an agile environment to plan and engineer the application. Student/Web Developer CODE THE DREAM - Durham, NC May 2016 to June 2018 Skills & Tools: Ruby on Rails, Git, Javascript, HTML, CSS, YML, Bootstrap.    ? One of the two lead developers in charged to create a location based web app(ConectateCarolina) that is  interactive and user-friendly. The client was non-profit from Duke University.  ? While working with this project, I worked both front and back-end, implementing enhancements that  significantly improved web functionality, speed, readability and design. I developed skills relating design, decision making, development as an individual and team, and debugging  ? Worked closely with our client and end-users(farm workers) to make the site easy to navigate and use. Education Associate in Software Development Durham Technical Community College - Durham, NC August 2016 to Present Skills Redux, Typescript, Sql, Bilingual, Front End, Javascript, Jquery, Wordpress, HTML5, ReactJS (1 year), MYSQL, Git Links https://github.com/rodri0315 Additional Information RELEVANT SKILLS  React/Redux React Native Express NodeJS Typescript Mongo/SQL Bilingual (Spanish English)