Junior Software Engineering Manager Junior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineering Manager Junior Software Engineering Manager - Soluciones GBH Santo Domingo, PR Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Junior Software Engineering Manager Soluciones GBH 2019 to Present Here I work with Java using spring framework and spring cloud for Micro  services, also Cucumber for BDD. Other technologies that I use are NodeJS and ReactJS for developing. Some of my duties are architect new coming  projects and work with the team that's going to develop it. I am also in  charged of a couple of the developers, and I have to guide them and be sure  they are growing professionally. Linux stack developer for tangerine system same as yupi but for schools 2011 to Present Freelance Developer  Dominicana limpia App. •  Denuncias municipales, Santo doming Norte •  GYM APP •  Inventory system • Software Development Supervisor Encore Repair Services, Inc 2018 to July 2018 Lead all levels of software development team, working with every role in the process to participate in the organization's goals achievement. Lead Developer GCS International, LTD 2016 to May 2018 In charged of a development team. Design and analyze functional solutions  are part of my duties, also design the architecture and select the right  technology to use.  We use Agile methodologies in our team. I also assign the tasks to our  members and supervise them in the whole process of development.  Development in its tPago product, which is a platform for electronic payments  alongside with other inter developments.  API Rest development, tPago mobile app backend service. Software Engineer Indra Company 2015 to January 2016 Full stack developer for ECL (Energy Control System). This system was an electricity industry related. I was in charge of the logic behind the billing  process and others functionalities too.  I was able to enhance migrations process cutting its execution time up to 50%  developing Oracle procedures. Sofware Engineer II Newtech, SRL 2013 to December 2014 Software, Outsourcing, Teleservices  Full stack developer for yupi.com.do (now fripick.com, an e-commerce system for employees and a benefit management system for the company).  Developed features suck as: Daily cron tasks for invoices creations, Reports,  massive product upload, Schedules orders, cancel orders.  Development of TopUps features working with different dominican telcos. Full Education Bachelor's Skills Cucumber, Gradle, Html, Java, Spring, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Maven, Eureka, Web services, Software architecture, Uml, Architecture, Integration Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/yariel-infante-83b55865 Additional Information Skills  Java SE  Enterprise Integration Patterns  Software architecture  Java EE  UML  Micro services  Web services  SQL  PLSQL  HTML  Spring framework  Oracle  MySQL  Maven  Gradle  JPA  Scrum  Agile  Nodejs  Spring cloud  Netflix OSS Eureka  Cucumber BDD  OSGI