Lead Software developer/Scrum Master at Deloitte Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">developer</span>/Scrum Master at Deloitte Lead Software developer/Scrum Master at Deloitte Chicago, IL • Experienced professional developer with more than five years experience in application development across various industries.  • Expertise in java and java related technologies.  • Expertise in in implementing design pattern.  • Expertise in service-oriented architecture with both rest and soap web services.  • Excellent verbal and written skill. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Software developer/Scrum Master at Deloitte Deloitte - Santa Fe, NM June 2015 to Present Description:   • Develop, design, add enhancements and maintain a benefit portal system- ASPEN, that automates all benefits processing for beneficiaries of New Mexico. The residents can apply for various federal and state benefits like SNAP, Child support benefits, medical benefits etc. through ASPEN or third party agencies.    Responsibilities:  • Lead a team of 6 - 8 developers and testers.  • Analyzed Software requirements and specifications.  • Designed and developed batch job process.  • Designed and developed application web pages using JSP, HTML, Custom Tags, JavaScript.  • Mentor new colleagues to bring them up to speed with industry standards.  • Perform code reviews, Responsible to improve the coding standards. Software Automation Engineer Sears Holding Group - Chicago, IL July 2014 to December 2016 • Worked as software Automation engineer.  • Developed automation test libraries. Software developer at California department of motor vehicles - Global Touch Points Inc. California department of motor vehicles - Global Touch Points Inc. - Sacramento, CA March 2015 to June 2015 Description and Responsibility :  • Develop an automated system for California department of motor vehicles where residents can take driving test and apply for license using Spring 3.0 ,hibernate and Javascript and JSP. Software Developer at Global Touchpoints Inc. Global Touchpoints Inc. December 2014 to December 2014 Description:   • Worked as a software developer for a client project ASPEN in the state of New Mexico.    Responsibilities :   • Worked as a software developer on delivering system enhancements as part of change requests. Education Masters in Computer Science SUNY Albany July 2014 Bachelors in Computer Science and engineering Anna University 2011 Skills HTML (5 years), JAVA (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), Agile Scrum (Less than 1 year), Scrum Master (Less than 1 year), Scrum (Less than 1 year), Jira (Less than 1 year), SQL (5 years), J2EE (5 years) Additional Information • Environment and technologies used : Java, JSP, SQL developer, servlets, EJB beans, Web services, webSphere 9.0 , Java Script, HTML, Deloitte proprietary batch and application framework.