Sr. J2EE Developer Sr. J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. J2EE Developer - America Movil Atlanta, GA • SCWCD (Sun Certified Web Component Developer) around 8 years IT experience including Strong Architecture & Development experience using Java/J2EE and Web Technologies.  • Extensive SDLC experience including Requirement Analysis, Preparations of Technical Specifications Document, Design and Coding, Application Implementation, Unit testing and System Testing, Functional and Regression Testing and Production Support,  • Proficient with Software development methodologies like Agile Methodologies.  • Strong experience in Client-Server systems using Object Oriented Concepts and Design Patterns.  • Excellent Core Java development skills.  • Expertise in coding business components using various API's of Java like Multithreading, Collections.  • Proficient in programming with Java/J2EE and strong experience in technologies such as JSP Servlets, Struts, Spring (IOC & AOP), Hibernate, EJBs, MDBs, Session Beans, JDBC and JNDI.  • Exposure to XML, DTD, SCHEMA.  • Strong Expertise in front end technologies such HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax. Basic understanding of ExtJs  • Expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, MVC Architecture, Front Controller, Session Façade and Data Access Object for building J2EE Applications.  • Experienced in web development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery and AngularJS technologies.  • Experienced in developing MVC framework based websites using spring and struts.  • Experience in building web applications using Spring Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), IOC (Inversion Of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) and template classes.  • Expertise in Object-relational mapping using Hibernate and Ibatis.  • Expertise in developing and consuming Web services including different technologies and standards like XSD, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS.  • Experience in configuring and administering MQ-Series and experience in developing messaging systems using JMS.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD) for Java/J2EE application development.  • Implemented Unit Testing using JUnit and Integration testing during the projects.  • Exposure to tools such as ANT and hands on experience on TOAD, SQLyog and SQL Developer  • Used integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, Clear Case and VSS.  • Exposure to UNIX commands and Suse Linux.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Consistent team player with excellent communication skills. Work Experience Sr. J2EE Developer America Movil - Atlanta, GA April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Development of a split billing system - core java, collections, spring, hibernate, mysql  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  • Implemented business logic using Struts action components in the Struts and Hibernate framework.  • Implemented Hibernates Lazy default fetch plan for generating proxies and collection wrappers and also created fetching strategies for minimizing the number of SQL statements.  • Using spring integration with iBatis for persistence. All SQL map name spaces are configured in sqlmap-config file.  • Developed pricing application using Angular JS, Web API, Entity framework and SQL server and designed and created Services, directives, components and factory for Angular JS application  • Developed UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular JS Involved in responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Architected and implement REST api interfaces using javascript and Node.js  • Implemented Bootstrap on website front-end to enable accessibility from multiple device types from Landing Page  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Developed complex Web based UI using Struts, Ajax and Java Script  • Integrated and implemented SOA solutions with Oracle SOA suite: Oracle ADF, BPM, BPEL, Oracle Service Bus OSB.  • Developed PL/SQL procedures for login module and written complex sql queries.  • Designing data models in Cassandra and working with Cassandra Query Language (CQL)  • Designing ETL Data Pipeline flow to ingest the data from RDBMS source to Hadoop using shell script, sqoop.  • Developed Rest architecture based webservices to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Used SOAP Technology for exchanging the XML application using HTTP  • Involved in creation of web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in hibernate, Used the spring container for data source and to load the Hibernate specific classes.  • Created webservices using WTP tool plugin to the eclipse IDE which is deployed as a separate application using Maven scripts.  • Deployed the application on Weblogic Application Server cluster on Solaris 10 environment  • Administered bot Git and Subversion repositories for an enterprise code off.  • Analyzed source data from Teradata and created series of Data Pipelines automation process for one time as well as daily/incremental loadings using Sqoop, Hive, spark SQL, Kafka, Shell Scripts, Jenkins, Chef Scripts, GitHub and Control-M.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Created automated test cases using Selenium  • Manage multiple, high profile cross-functional AGILE program teams across various business units.  • Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle.  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  • Worked with business teams using Agile methodology to integrate business line of apps with SOA in a seamless fashion    Environment: J2EE, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Ibatis, Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, Oracle, PL/SQL, Cassandra, Hadoop, REST, Soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Weblogic, Git, GitHub, Junit, Selenium, Agile, UML, JSP, Xml, SOA Sr. Java Developer State Street Corp - Reston, VA October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components.  • Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring JDBC Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  • Designed and developed the web-tier using Html, JSP's, Servlets, Struts and Tiles framework.  • Developed server-side services using JSF, Apache Trinidad components, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Web Services  • Used AngularJS to implement rich functionality in various pages: form validation, CRUD, grid, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced directives, authentication, server-side proxy, unit tests, cloud integration, slide pages, users switch etc.  • Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade.  • Responsible for the implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap Front-End Framework  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed the UI screens using SFX, Jsps, Java script, JSTL and CSS  • Developed HTML5 Mobile application with HTML5, Java Script, jQuery, JSON and RESTful web service  • Developed back-end stored procedures and triggers using Oracle PL/SQL, involved in database objects creation, performance tuning of stored procedures, and query plan.  • Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • Designed & implemented client/server application to plan package forwarding & route scheduling. Used JDBC for database connectivity.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Experience in XML, WebServices using SOAP, XML-RPC, JAX-RPC, JAXB and Messaging standards like JMS.  • Developed the CRUD API for the POSEngine using Restful Webservices.  • Develop innovative and quality solutions by making use of latest tools and technologies like Apache CXF, Spring Core, and Spring AOP.  • Used Eclipse for developing the application and CVS for version control.  • Involved in Deployment of port lets and war files on WebSphere Portal.  • Designed and developed the JSF, HTML using the WebSphere Studio for Application Developer.  • Developing a new Content Management System backed by subversion using java EE technologies.  • Written JUNIT test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client side validations.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java and related technologies using WATERFALL and AGILE SCRUM methodologies.  • Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Application is deployed on WebSphere Application server. Maven is used as a build tool  • Interfaced with the Oracle back-end using Hibernate Framework and XML config files.  • Lead, Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite 11g  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS. Technically, it is a 3-tier client server application, where GUI tier interacts with Java middle-tier custom library and queries an Oracle database using Hibernate.  • Hosted and configured applications in IIS, IBM Websphere, and Apache Tomcat under Windows and AIX platforms  • Set up JBoss Server, Configured MySQL Cluster in Linux OS and installed OpenCall XDMS  • Develop complex web applications in PHP, AJAX with Informix as the database to model the business logic of the company which is Supply Chain Management.    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Struts & JSF, Angular.js, JavaScript, CSS, Html5, Node.js, bootstrap.js, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Mongo DB, APACHE, CXF, soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, WebSphere Studio Application developer (WSAD), Subversion (SVN), Junit, Scrum, UML, Class diagram, JSP, MAVEN, Xml, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP J2EE Developer Amazon.com - New York, NY October 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring Framework  • Developed IBATIS config files for SYBASE D.B tables, stored process  • Develop administrative interfaces with the technologies of JSP, JSF, AJAX, JavaScript, spring and Hibernate.  • Implemented front end changes based on spring integrated with Struts along with JSP view and Java code as per requirement  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client side validations using Java Script.  • Extensively used the DOJO Toolkit to control and provide the rich functionality to GUI.  • Developed mobile applications using JQuery Mobile, PhoneGap, and Sencha for Virtual Infotech Inc  • Developed Interactive GUI Screens using JavaScript, iFrame, JQuery & Ajax  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Participated in developing web pages using JSP, JavaScript and Google Web Toolkit, DWR (Ajax Framework) for better user interface experience  • Extensively worked on business, front end and persistence tier using the JSP, Spring MVC, and EXTJS/JSON.  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from IBM DB2  • Worked on the MySQL migration project .To make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Used tools like Toad, PLSQL Developer and Squirrel for performing database operations  • Created SQL Server logins and assigning roles and Authentication models as a part of Security.  • a member of A-Team that involved - Coherence development  • Experienced in Oracle BRE Coherence integration  • Design and Developed using WebService using Apache Axis 2 on JBOSS.  • Implemented SOAP, WSDL and a subset of XML schema for a Web Service toolkit and for web services integration.  • Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  • Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment  • Facilitated team-oriented development via version control (Mercurial)  • Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++.  • Developing test suites in Selenium WebDriver (Java) with TestNG framework in Eclipse IDE for regression and sanity testing.  • Executed project using waterfall model and practiced Agile Project Management & performed the Scrum Master role for specific projects/requirements as appropriate. Used Rally for Agile project management  • Involved in System Requirement study, conceptual design and designing of Use Cases based on the requirements using UML.  • Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose  • Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  • Designed and developed carrier selection and product selection web pages using HTML, Struts, Servlets and JavaScript.  • Used Ant for Building the application, and completed testing by deploying on Websphere application server, used IEP/DCC content management system.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  • Experience with enterprise ECM software such as EMC Documentum and Alfresco  • Developed a Web Application using Java with the Google Web Toolkit API with PostgreSql  • Used Green Hopper and JIRA to create and maintain EPIC and user story for iteration.  • Developed the user interface screens using Swing for accepting various system inputs such as contractual terms, monthly data pertaining to production, inventory and transportation  • Worked with dimensional modeling of relational data sources (DMR) using Cognos 8 Framework Manager and create cubes using Framework Manager.  • Customized Jasper Reports and SQL procedures according to the client requirements.  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  • Worked on major architectural changes in various applications such as maven upgrades, drools- JRules conversion and incorporated CXF services for automated testing  • Design and develop pricing region services using Oracle ADF, JSF and Oracle Spatial.  • Design and development of the exception management workflow using Oracle BPM  • Developed a web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging  • Developed applications using Visual Studio, C#, and a combination of Windows Services, IBM MQ Series, and ASP.Net Ajax enabled web sites.  • Develop financial productivity application and tool set using Java and enterprise software tools/technologies such as Subversion, Maven, Weblogic, Apache Tomcat, Sql Server, and Oracle DB.  • Developed shell scripts, on linux platform, to process data from upstream systems that were scheduled to be executed at specific times by Autosys  • Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems  • Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the ERP system using VB Script and Ruby scripts  • Design & creation of multiple sites using: WordPress, HTML, PHP, XML, CSS, Javascript & more.  • Built custom websites for clients using CMS's (Drupal) by coding custom modules and themes, as well as utilizing e-commerce APIs for secure payment processing.  • Developed an in house Bankruptcy Intake program in Classic ASP/ASP.NET. Program is inherited from Classic ASP Debt intake program. Used Visual Studio 2008 to develop this mix program of both Classic ASP and ASP.NET. Used vbscript, javascript, and added some new ASP.NET pages.  • Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++.  • Developed code for C, C++ to secure the transaction.  • Have used JAXB to marshal and unmarshal java objects to Communicate with the backend mainframe system.  • Developed Transaction/Policy/Account History, Billing Single View, use cases by gathering data from existing BRC documents and the COBOL programs.  • Created/translated PL/I programming into SAS, which were used as part of the process used to standardize military personnel records  • Developed online and batch programs using COBOL, CICS, VSAM, DB2 and JCL and wrote system specifications  • Worked on stored procedures, PL/SQL and SQL queries  • Created web services using SOAP for SOA to get data from Mainframes and content manager. Contracted Analyst, IBM mainframe, COBOL, SAS, Excel, VSAM, Endevor, FTP, DYL-280  • Designed and built it based on previous Classic ASP version. Upgraded its original database from Access to SQL.  • Extensive Development using Zend Framework by PHP in a LAMP environment.    Environment: Spring, IBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, DOJO, Sencha ExtJS, JavaScript, JQuery, DOJO, GWT, ExtJs, MYSQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, coherence, APACHE, AXIS2, WSDL, Netbeans, Jboss, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water fall model, UML, JSP SERVLET, ANT, ITEXT, EMC Documentum, GWT (GoogleWebToolkit), JIRA, SWING, Cognos, Jasper report, ILOG, JRules, Oracle, Application Development Framework (OracleADF), Oracle, Business Process, Management (Oracle BPM), Web 2.0, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, wordpress, drupal, zend, ASP, C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SASVB, ASP Java Developer IBM - Austin, TX April 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the requirements and provided inputs to the designer.  • Designed Class diagrams, framework and developed using Factory, DAO, Singleton and MVC pattern.  • Developed the business tier using Core Java and the HTTP interfaces using Servlets.  • Involved in review of the design and helped in transforming the application to an optimized solution framework.  • Designed the helper classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers.  • JSP, HTML, Javascript, CSS and Ajax used for front end development.  • Implemented Collections API to manage Java Objects in Business Logic layer.  • Built the admin module using Struts framework for the master configuration.  • Implementation of DistrubutedMap using DnyaCache for implementing the distributed cache on a clustered environment.  • Worked with multithreading in synchronized environment.  • Designed and developed the persistence tier using Hibernate framework.  • Implemented EJB (Session Beans) to create WAS Scheduler.  • Used Websphere data sources for the database connection and accessed using JNDI names.  • Implemented the Websphere scheduler and provided the scheduling logic to process the Cache.  • Developed a Stored Procedures for regular cleaning of database.  • Used Oracle as relational databases and created E-R diagrams for the database tables.  • Implemented Log4j to maintain system log.  • Managed the functional and load testing by interacting with the testers and providing them the guidelines and deadlines for completion of work.  • Directly interacted with the client application leads, to help them integrate their application with MNP.  • Eclipse was used for Rapid Development of the application.  • Build EAR using ANT tool.  • Deployed the application on production server along with WAS administrator.    Environments: JAVA, JSP, HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, SERVLETS, STRUTS, HIBERNATE, EJB (SESSION BEANS), LOG4J, WEBSPHERE DATASOURCE, IBM WEBSPHERE, JNDI, ORACLE, WINDOWS XP, UNIX, ANT, ECLIPSE. Software Engineer CascadeStar Inc May 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Interacting with the client and analyzing the requirements to help and understand the requirements.  • Involved in all phases of SDLC.  • Designed Class diagrams, framework and developed Use case diagram and Sequence diagram.  • Application was designed and developed in Struts framework with Struts Tiles which is based on MVC pattern.  • Presentation tier was incorporated using JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Implemented the Struts Validation framework.  • Use of Java Collection API and classes such as HashMap, ArrayList and Vectors.  • Incorporated XML Parser such as DOM.  • Developed web services using SOAP, WSDL and Apache Axis which helped communicating through different modules of the application.  • Implemented database transactions using Hibernate ORM framework.  • Implemented iText and POI to generate reports.  • MySql was used as RDBMS. Hands on experience creating E-R diagram, complex queries and subqueries.  • Used TOAD to create complex queries and subqueries.  • Built and deployed WAR file on JBoss. application server.  • Used VSS for version control of project files.  • Implemented Log4j to maintain system log.  • Developed application using MyEclipse for rapid development.  • Involved in QA support and deployed the application on Production server and supported for the real time issues.    Environments: J2SE, STRUTS, STRUTS TILES, JSP, HTML, AJAX, JAVASCRIPT, SERVLETS, HIBERNATE, SOAP, WSDL, APACHE AXIS, DOM, ITEXT, POI, MYSQL, , JBOSS, MYECLIPSE. Software Engineer NFIB - Dallas, TX November 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities  • Analyzed the requirements and enhanced the application which improved maintainability, extensibility and performance.  • Designed Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams for the application.  • Involved in enhancing Presentation layer, Business layer and DAO layer components.  • Implemented JSP, HTML, CSS, Javascript and Ajax to design front end.  • Client and Server side validations were done using Javascript and Ajax.  • Extensive use of Ajax to update the part of webpage which improved the performance of the application.  • Business logic layer was implemented using Servlets and EJBs.  • Implemented XML parsers such as DOM.  • Incorporated persistence tier using Hibernate framework.  • Developed code for Java Multithreading.  • Implemented Log4j to maintain system log.  • Created service component using EJB  • Incorporated Mule for messaging.  • Deployed the application on JBoss application server.  • Used Oracle as relational .  • Involved in Unit testing, bug fixing, QA and Production support.    Environments: JAVA, JSP, SERVLETS, EJB, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, LOG4J, XML, DOM, EDITPLUS, MULE, JBOSS Education Masters in Computer Science and Engineering George Mason University Skills AJAX (9 years), CSS (9 years), HTML (9 years), JAVA (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL, Java Enterprise Edition (J2EE)  Web Technologies JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, HTML, CSS, Spring, Struts, Spring Boot, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Spring (IOC and AOP), Hibernate, MDBs, Session Beans, Javascript, AJAX, DOJO, ExtJs, Java Mail, HTML, CSS, DTD, SCHEMA, XML, SAX, DOM.  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAXB, JAX-WS, Apache Axis  Databases Oracle and MySql  Distributed/ Middleware JMS (Java Messaging Service), Jenkins, AntHillPro Client  Tools/ Software Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, Net Beans, SQL, TOAD, SQL Developer, Clear case, Subversion, JUnit, UML.  Application/Web Server Apache Tomcat, Jboss, Websphere and WebLogic.    Operating Systems UNIX, Suse Linux, Windows  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS (HTTP+SSL), TELNET, FTP.  Other Tools & Design Patterns ANT, MVC, Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Transfer Object, Singleton, Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern.