Job Seeker Franklin, TN ? Having around 9 years of hands-on-experience as SAP ABAP Technical  Consultant/Lead. Worked in Implementation, production Support and Roll Out  Projects of SAP R/3 - 4.7 and ECC 6.0.  ? Developed different RICEFW's in Modules like SAP HR,SD,MM,QM,WM,IM,PP,FI,CO and APO.  ? Extensively worked on Data Dictionary Concepts, Table creationc& extending, TMG  Events.  ? Worked on Reports - Classical, Interactive, ALV and Object oriented.  ? Worked on ALE Inbound/Outbound IDOC/Message Types Configuration, Extensions,  Change Pointers as well.  ? Worked on ALE Custom Inbound/Outbound IDOCs creation.  ? Worked on ABAP proxies Inbound/Outbound regeneration/testing/Monitoring  using SPROXY & SXMB_MONI.  ? Edit the Payload and Trigger the XML Messages in SXMB_MONI to PI System.  ? Creating and processing batch input using BDC sessions and Call transaction method.  ? Worked on Upload/Download of Files from/To Application/Presentation Servers  and SAP Directories(AL11).  ? Worked on Enhancements-User Exits (Field,Menu,Function,Screen)  ? Worked on Enhancement Frame Work -Implicit/Explicit Enhancements.  ? Worked on BAPI's and BADI's - New and Customization.  ? Worked on Sap Scripts - Copying to multiple Client systems.  ? Worked on Smart forms - New and Customization. (GR/GI/PO/INV) with Email  Functionality.  ? Worked on Language translations for different Forms and Transport them further.  ? Worked on ADOBE Forms-Print Forms Only - New and Customization of labels.  ? Configured the Forms in NACE as per OUTPUT TYPE, to be triggered when Event was  raised.  ? Developed HR Payroll reports and forms using clustered RT Tables and Infotypes.  ? Worked on the Analysis and Implementation of OSS Notes.  ? Worked on APO CIF Enhancements to transfer ERP Data to APO systems and SMQ1/SMQ2  Monitoring.  ? Enhanced one of the Custom VOFM Routine w.r.t Condition record, Access Sequence and  Pricing Procedure. Knowledge on Workflow, Webdynpro and HANA Developing concepts.  ? Followed the best coding practices like modularization and worked on Runtime Analysis,  SQL Trace and Code Inspector.  ? Debugging of Programs, Function Module's,Exits,Scripts,Forms,Idocs,Proxys and Analysis  of SYSTEM DUMPS(ST22) and System Logs(SM21).  ? Create/Schedule/Monitor the Jobs for programs or triggered events and Fix them as  needed by analyzing the job log/Step/Variant info.  ? Worked on few Unix Scripting, Putty & FTP usage for .dat file loads.  ? Co-ordination with the Onsite/Offshore team for the ease of Requirements Gathering/  Functional Spec Reviews& Discussions/GAP Analysis/Technical Solution  Designing/Documenting/Code Build & Reviews/Testing-Unit & integration/Bug  fixes/Objects Delivery/Go-Live Activities/Customer Acceptance/Post-Go Live Support  Activities like Job's Monitoring and Issue Fixing as per the SLA's defined. Work Experience Celestica Inc August 2014 to May 2015 Environment: SAP - ECC 6.0  ? Description:  Celestica Inc. is a multinational electronics manufacturing services (EMS) company  headquartered in Toronto, Ontario. Celestica's global manufacturing network  comprises more than 20 locations in 11 countries in the Americas, Europe and Asia,  delivering end-to-end product lifecycle solutions. In addition to manufacturing, the company's global services include design and engineering, systems assembly,  fulfillment, after-market services and supply chain services.    ? Responsibilities:  ? Involved in requirements gathering along with client and feasibility/Impact analysis,  FS Reviews, Effort Estimation, TS Preparation, Code Build/reviews and other Unit  Testing Deliverables as well as per Deadlines.    ? Worked on Enhancements for ORDERS and ORDCHG in updating the BDC recording  for Engineering Change Fields/Revision/Your reference in Sales order.    ? Packing list Script Changes to include BAR Code for Customer Po and Item.    ? Report to run in background for generating Independent planned requirements  (MD61) using BAPI from the confirmed quantities of Schedule Lines.    ? Enhanced the T-code VL02N(MV50AFZ1), to check the no of serial numbers assigned  per each item/Quantity.    ? Enhanced DELFOR01 Inbound Idoc Function module, to purge and update the delivery date and revision in the Engineering tab of Schedule Agreement.    ? Generated Status Tracking Outbound Proxies for the Request Inbound Proxy by submitting to a report program and Error Logging into AL11.  PROJECT# 2 Senior Developer GSK - GlaxoSmithKline - Dublin April 2014 to August 2014 Environment: SAP - ECC 6.0 - WM  ? Description:  GlaxoSmithKline plc (GSK) is a British pharmaceutical company headquartered in Brentford,  London. In 1999 the company was the world's largest manufacturer of drugs for the treatment of asthma and HIV/AIDS. It employed 59,000 people, including 13,400 in  the UK, had 76 operating companies and 50 manufacturing facilities worldwide, and seven of its products were among the world's top 50 best-selling pharmaceuticals.  The company had R&D facilities in Hertfordshire, Kent and London, and manufacturing plants in Scotland and the north of England. It had R&D centres in the  US and Japan, and production facilities in the US, Europe and the Far East.    ? Responsibilities:  ? Worked for the WM Labelling solution, and developed ADOBE Print forms for the Handling and packing Units in A6 and A4 Sizes, including the embedded barcodes.    PROJECT# 3 Senior Consultant John Deere - Moline, IL October 2013 to April 2014 Environment: SAP - ECC 6.0 - SD,FI,MM,PP,IM,WM  ? Description:  JD manufactures agricultural, construction, and forestry machinery, diesel engines,  drivetrains (axles, transmissions, gearboxes) used in heavy equipment, and lawn  care equipment. DPS Expected customer Responsiveness, Flawless execution and Sustained Bussiness Improvement. JD-QPS will drive a common process that SAP will  enable - Parameter Settings & Analysis - Planning systems with Execution Outcomes  - Real time Dashboards - Material Flow & Receiving Processes - Common Metrics & Measures - New Product workflow    ? Responsibilities:  ? Accepting the CA Tickets on time as per the Response SLA and Working on the Job  failures.    ? Working on Bug Fixes and Enhancements that arise during the support activities.    ? Proactively fixed the repetitive job failure, by fixing the code during data  unavailability.    ? Trained juniors on the IDOCS- Inbound/Outbound/Change Pointers concepts.    PROJECT# 4 Senior Software Engineer GE Lightning - General Electric - Cleveland, OH January 2012 to October 2013 Environment: SAP - ECC 6.0 - SCM  ? Description:  Light Source Factory is member of GE Appliances & Lighting Business, including a world  class manufacturing, full range of support organisations and EMEA Headquarter. This  plant was acquisited by General Electric in 1989, so it has 120 years' experience in Design and development, Mass production, Worldwide distribution and Integration.  Extremely wide range of non-LED applications for Indoor, Outdoor, High Wattage and automotive with Unique Technical capabilities of LSFB and Industrial Experiences.    ? Responsibilities:  ? Reviewing the FS as per the checklist norms and putting the issue tracker to client.  Discuss with the functional team on the FS walkthrough and for the pending issues before signoff the FS.    ? Provided technical solutions while designing the TS's that are complex and where ever required. Reviewed TS designs before sending it for client approval.    ? Developing the code as per the standards set, and Unit testing. Prepared Code  Review checklist for the completed builds with EPC screenshots.    ? Scheduling Weekly meeting to discuss on the current week deliverables and coming  week targets per each team member. Updating the RICEFW's Tracker weekly to publish it to client.    ? Worked on Enhancements, Interfaces, Proxies and Forms-Adobe Print Forms.  PROJECT# 5 Senior Software Engineer Cardinal Health Corporation - Dublin, OH December 2009 to November 2011 Environment: SAP - ECC 6.0 - TOAD, PUTTY /Vendor Rebates&Pricing    ? Description:  Cardinal health specializes in health care supply chain services, providing pharmaceuticals  and medical products to more than 40,000 locations each day. The company is also a manufacturer of medical and surgical products, including gloves, surgical apparel and  fluid management products. In addition, the company supports the growing  diagnostic industry by supplying medical products to clinical laboratories and operating the nation's largest network of radio pharmacies that dispense products to  aid in the early diagnosis and treatment of disease.    ? Responsibilities:  ? Production support activities like Monitoring the scheduled jobs, working on job  failures and its documentation for the approval process before we make any  production changes, on Daily basis and following the Specific Month End Processing.    ? If any case raised by the end user or any other team, accepted the tickets within SLA  and Provided the Solution within the timelines. Used tools like CLARIFY,TOAD and PUTTY.    ? Checking the Rebate Calculation for the particular Vendor based on the report given  by the analyst.    ? Automated the CRDR&SNC order processing with new enhancements to reduce  the daily manual work.    ? Worked on UNIX scripting as well and coded new scripts for the new jobs.    PROJECT# 6 Software Engineer TCD-Tamimi Commercial Division - SA December 2007 to November 2008 Environment: SAP - ECC 6.0- HR,FI,SD  ? Description:  The extraordinary development of Saudi Arabia to a modern nation from a desert kingdom in five decades is unrivaled. Throughout this period, in all areas of activity and at all  levels, The Tamimi Group Of Companies rose to the challenge to work in concert with  foreign and local partners. Tamimi Commercial Division, the Tamimi Group's  trading arm since 1949, is one of Saudi Arabia's oldest and largest  importer/distributors. TCD prides itself on it's long-term Kingdom wide  distributorship agreements with Halliburton for it's energy services, Firestone for Tires, Exide Automotive Batteries and Red Wing for shoes. In recent years this  division has become the agent for Caltex Express Lubes. The SAP Implementation  includes the development, customization and support for the ECC6 implementation.    ? Responsibilities:  ? Developed a HR ESD smart form that will display all the allowances related to an employee based on the cost center and plant wise.    ? Developed a smart form that will do the subtotal and grand total of the wage types  for all the employees who are working under same department.    ? Developed an enhancement for the termination reasons by creating a spot for coding to the final amount to be paid for an employee based on the action types.    ? Developed an expiry report that will display the expiry dates of passport, work  permit, visa and driving license for an employee based on hiziry date and country  code.    ? Developed an overtime report that will display the extra hours spent by an employee  in a month and how much amount he/she will b e paid along with the salary.    ? Copied standard script RVINVOICE01 to get the company header, logo, changed  the paragraph, character formats, total amount in words and displayed terms of payment at the bottom of the script.    PROJECT# 7 Software Engineer TCCS -The Coca Cola System - Atlanta, GA March 2007 to November 2007 Environment: SAP - ECC 4.7- HR,SD  ? Description:  Coca-Cola originated as a soda fountain beverage in 1886 selling for five cents a glass. Early  growth was impressive, but it was only when a strong bottling system developed that  Coca-Cola became the world-famous brand it is today. The Coca-Cola bottling  system grew up with roots deeply planted in local communities. This heritage serves  the Company well today as people seek brands that honor local identity and the distinctiveness of local markets. As was true a century ago, strong locally based  relationships between Coca-Cola bottlers, customers and communities are the foundation on which the entire business grows.    ? Responsibilities:  ? Developed staff movement report which will display the movement of all the employees between the plants and cost centers by period wise.  ? Developed a HR report, which provides previous organizational details of an employee using the info types and function modules.  ? Developed a HR smart form for displaying employee loan details in a particular date  range.  ? Developed a HR report for displaying the Employee salary details  ? Developed a script for the Employment form displaying the joining Date ,organization  name and department.  ? Developed a smart form that display delivery information extracted from tables like VBAK, VBAP, LIPS, VBRP,VBRK, VBPA, KNA1 etc.  ? Layout and driver program modification on a set of scripts.    PROJECT# 8 Software Engineer Trainee NISSAN Automobiles, North America - Nashville, TN September 2006 to February 2007 Environment: SAP - ECC 4.7- FICO  ? Description:  Nissan US has over 8 years of online automotive experience. Nissan North America  Inc.(NNA) was created coordinate all of Nissans various activities in North America to enhance the design, development, manufacturing and marketing of Nissan vehicles.  In 1998, the two organizations merged operations under the Nissan North America,  Inc. name. NNAs mission is to provide all Nissan and Infiniti employees and dealers with the tools they need for constant improvement and consumer satisfaction.NNA  coordinates all operations in the United States, Canada, and Mexico including  automotive styling, consumer, and corporate financing and engineering. NNA  headquarters, operations is Nashville, Tennessee.    ? Responsibilities:  ? Reviewing the functional Specification and preparing detailed Technical design  specifications.  ? Performed unit level testing and Application testing for the completed objects.  ? Worked in the creation of data dictionary objects like custom tables, views, search  helps, and structures.  ? Developed a Effort Management report which stores the details of the In time and out time of the associates and gives the total effort of the associates.  ? Stock Aging Report for NNA -Developed a report that generates the List of Vehicles  for NNA by Plant and Material Grouping.  ? Involved in copying and modification the sap script provided by SAP according to user requirements. Education B.Tech in Electronics and communication engineering J.N.T University 2006 Intermediate Board of Education 2002 SSC Board of Secondary Education 2000 Skills ABAP (9 years), SAP (9 years), SCRIPTING (1 year), UNIX (1 year), HR (1 year) Additional Information [B] Skill Sets    Operating Systems: WIN 98/2000/XP , UNIX  Programming Languages: SAP ABAP/4,ECC 6.0, OO-ABAP,HR-ABAP,APO,Unix  Scripting,C,C++,ASP.Net  Tools: ALE Idocs,XI,RFC,Solution Manager, MS Office, MS Visio  Databases: Oracle, SQL Server    [C] PROJECT# 1    Client: CELESTICA-Santa Clara, CA    Role: Team Lead/ Developer    Team size: 15