Sql Server Apps DBA. Sql Server Apps DBA. Charlotte, NC ? Total of 8+ years working experience in IT Database and Data Integration Systems.  ? 8+ years' experience as SQLServer Apps. DBA  ? 3+ years' experience SSIS ETL Engineer  ? 3+ years' experience AutoSys  ? 3+ years' experience in Agile Tools & Methodologies  ? Highly experienced in Data Warehouse & DataMart concepts, Data Modeling & Performance Tuning.  ? Designed & supported complex ETL production environments by writing advanced SQL queries.  ? Hosted meetings to discuss complex designs and oversaw those complex implementations.  ? Hosted Production Support calls and provided 24 / 7 Support on High severity Issues.  ? Trained Engineers to work on Production Support and development, with Knowledge Transfer Sessions.  ? Excellent analytical, problem solving, communications, managerial and interpersonal skills with the ability to interact with individuals at all levels.    ? Educational Qualification:  Master Degree in Computer Applications (MCA)  Vellore Institute of Technology, Deemed University,  Katpadi, Tamil Nadu, India.    Bachelor Degree in Mathematics (B.Sc. - Mathematics)  Auxilium College, Madras University,  Katpadi, Tamil Nadu, India. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sql Server Apps DBA. Bank of America - Charlotte, NC June 2016 to Present Description:  Involved in development of tables with referential integrity, views, stored procs & triggers to support application & business logic.  Created ETL jobs that pull data from different sources into sql server.  Extraction & load was done using SSIS , while transformation was handled in Procs executed in sql server, but invoked thru SSIS.    Role:  • Lead a 3 member db developer team.  • Supported application db development, testing & migration of code to lower level environments.  • Participated in all agile ceremonies.  • Transferred schema specific tables with referential integrity from Prod to non prod environments  • Worked extensively in writing stored procs and performance tuning existing tables  • Analysis of the Discrepancy Report (DR) to determine the cause of the problem.  • Monitor SQL SERVER in System Integrated Testing, User Acceptance Testing ,Pilot Environments for Performance issues.  • Provide Database object tuning  • Giving Special Developer builds for hot fixes.  • Problem simulation, debugging, coding and testing the fix.  • Attended Conference call with customers on hot issues.  • Use of Profiler to understand performance issues.  • Participate in all essential day to day DBA Activities.    Environment: Windows 2007 Enterprise Server, SQL Server Profiler, SSMS - 2016, SSIS - 2015 Analyst Verizon Data Services India Pvt. Ltd March 2008 to January 2009 Description:  Project involves incident Report Fixes and testing in System Integrated Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Pilot and Production Environments.    Role:  ? Lead the Production Support DB Team.  ? Mentored 2 resources, providing KT session on the application.  ? Set up Training database for Sales personnel, who were trained in Onesource application.  ? 24x7 Support for Production issues.  ? Analysis of the Discrepancy Report (DR) to determine the cause of the problem.  ? Monitor SQL SERVER in System Integrated Testing, User Acceptance Testing ,Pilot Enviroments for Performance issues.  ? Provide Database object tuning  ? Giving Special Developer builds for hot fixes.  ? Problem simulation, debugging, coding and testing the fix.  ? Attended Conference call with customers on hot issues.  ? Use of Profiler to understand performance issues.  ? Participate in all essential day to day DBA Activities.    Environment: Windows 2003 Advanced Server, SQL Server Profiler, Query Analyzer, Enterprise Manager, SQL Server Management Studio, IBM ClearCase.    Project Name: Customer Premise Equipment Incorporation into OneSource & Support Analyst Verizon Data Services India Pvt. Ltd August 2007 to February 2008 Description:  Customer Premise Equipment is an enhancement to OneSource, which enables the users of the application to submit request for a Premise Equipment from OneSource itself. Previously, the application submission process was done through another application and the details were retrieved from another database which resulted in delays.    Role:  ? Primary DBA and involved in the design, analysis and implementation of the project.  ? Created Normalized tables to save Customer personal information, the type of premise equipment required and sales information.  ? Create Index for the newly created tables.  ? Written New Stored Procedures to retrieve data optimally  ? Provided 24x7 Support in the production environment.  ? Administer and Monitor the database using SQL server enterprise manager in System Integrated Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Pilot databases.  ? Provide Database object tuning  ? Problem simulation, debugging, coding and testing the fix.  ? Attended Conference call with customers on hot issues.  ? Use of Profiler to understand performance issues.  ? Participate in all essential day to day DBA Activities.  ? Work with RDBMS utilities to perform Backup and restore operations.  ? Assist in the enforcements of standard in all the databases.  ? Work with application developers to execute performance benchmarks of production SQL.    Environment: Windows 2003 Advanced Server, SQL Profiler, Query Analyzer, Enterprise Manager, SQL Server Management Studio, Replication Wizard, IBM ClearCase.    Project Name: Homepage Enhancements and Production Support Software Engineer Verizon Data Services India Pvt. Ltd February 2007 to July 2007 Description:  The Performance of Homepages was modified to retrieve data efficiently and various new and functionalities were added for existing roles.    Role:  Primary DBA and Involved in design, analysis and implementation of the project.  ? Existing Stored Procedures were modified for performance.  ? Writing Dynamic SQL's based on conditions and roles.  ? Following the optimal path to retrieve data, and omitting unnecessary tables from the join, requires a thorough understanding of the application.  ? Using profiler to understand performance issues  ? Writing views to improve performance  ? Creating de normalized tables  ? Writing procedures to show the aggregate of sales made by each person individually as well as the revenue generated by each sales manager.  ? Participated in 24 x 7 production support for 2 months after release.  ? Developed hot fixes for p1 and p2 issues.  ? Participated in call support.  ? Administer and Monitor the database using SQL server enterprise manager in system integrated testing, User acceptance testing and pilot databases.  ? Problem simulation, debugging, coding and testing the fix.  ? Attended Conference call with customers on hot issues.  ? Use of Profiler to understand performance issues.  ? Participate in all essential day to day DBA Activities.  ? Work with RDBMS Utilities to perform Backup and restore operations.  ? Assist in the enforcements of standard in all the databases.  ? Work with application developers to execute performance benchmarks of production SQL.    Environment: Windows 2003 Advanced Server, SQL Profiler, Query Analyzer, Enterprise Manager, SQL Server Management Studio, Replication Wizard, IBM ClearCase.    Project Name: One Source Application Production Support Software Engineer Verizon Data Services India Pvt. Ltd March 2006 to January 2007 Description:  Project involves incident Report Fixes and testing in System Integrated Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Pilot and Production Environments.    Role:  ? 24x7 Support for Production issues.  ? Analysis of the Discrepancy Report (DR) to determine the cause of the problem.  ? Giving Special Developer builds for hot fixes.  ? Problem simulation, debugging, coding and testing the fix.  ? Attended Conference call with customers on hot issues.  ? Use of Profiler to understand performance issues.  ? Participate in all essential day to day DBA Activities.  ? Set up Training database for Sales personnel, who were trained in Onesource application.  ? Monitor SQL SERVER in System Integrated Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Pilot environments for Performance issues.  ? Provide Database object tuning  ? Giving Special Developer builds for hot fixes.  ? Work with RDBMS Utilities to perform Backup and restore operations.  ? Assist in the enforcements of standard in all the databases.  ? work with application developers to execute performance benchmarks of production SQL.    Environment: Windows 2003 Advanced Server, SQL Server Profiler, Query Analyzer, Enterprise Manager, SQL Server Management Studio, IBM ClearCase.    Project Name: Business As Usual (BAU) Requirements Software Engineer Verizon Data Services India Pvt. Ltd June 2006 to September 2006 Description:  The project included states Pennsylvania and Virginia into application one source. 250 status and 150000 sub status were added to the database, and routing rules to implementers were implemented in the database.    Role:  ? Conference call with clients to finalize on the status for the 2 new regions  ? Generated scripts to import data for status and sub status  ? Supporting the requirement in SIT, UAT, Pilot and Production Environment  ? Replication support in SIT, UAT, Pilot Environment  ? Work with RDBMS Utilities to perform Backup and restore operations.  ? Assist in the enforcements of standard in all the databases.  ? work with application developers to execute performance benchmarks of production SQL.    Environment: Windows 2003 Advanced Server, SQL Profiler, Query Analyzer, Enterprise Manager, SQL Server Management Studio, Replication Wizard, IBM ClearCase. Jr.DB Developer FXA Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2004 to February 2006 India Education Master's in Computer Applications Vellore Institute of Technology, Katpadi, Tamilnadu, India. June 2001 to April 2004 Skills Sql server, Sql server 2000, Replication, Sql, Git, Etl, Clear case, Crystal report, Microsoft team foundation server, Team foundation server, Version control, Analyzer, Ssis, Sql Dba Additional Information Technical Skills:  Databases: SQL Server 2000,2005, 2008, 2016  ETL: SSIS - 2015  Autosys.  Platforms: WINDOWS NT/2000/XP/2003  Version Control: Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS), IBM Clear Case.GIT  Tools: SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Query Analyzer, SQL Server Replication Wizard, SQL Server Export Import Wizard, SQL Server Enterprise Manager, SQL Server Management Studio, Crystal Report V10