Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - eviCore HealthCare Nashville, TN Work Experience Senior Software Developer eviCore HealthCare June 2019 to Present Nashville, Tennesse  UPX - evicore Platform    Working for eviCore HealthCare as a Senior Software Developer. Responsible to develop an application in Asp.Net Core 2.0 . UPX is a legacy application, and our main responsibility is to understand the legacy application and convert into an StandAlone application using microservices using C# robust application. Database we use is SQL Server 2017 and get the legacy data. Shared services are used to implement GET and POST attributes and connect to WEB API for navigation of data. Devops Azure is used as Source Control for the Project. UPX includes all the cases that are created by providers and need to be processed for utilization Management.    Responsibilities:  • Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET RepositoryFramework (C#.NET, Entity Framework).  • Worked with Asp.Net Core 2.0 and implemented using repository pattern.  • Implemented shared Services to connect to WEB API from angular and then connect to database using Entity Framework and database is Sql Server 2017.  • Implemented Continuous integration and Continuous deployment for the applications.  • Implement agile scrum framework in application development.  • Worked on User story basis , used Azure devops to maintain the User Stories.  • Test Cases using Nunit framework for the applications.  • Used Application Insights for logging and Ilogger interface to record logs in the system  • Used third party libraries for implementing new symbols using font awesome and bootstrap v4.  • Worked with Visual studio 2017 for backend code. Senior Software Developer State of Michigan - Lansing, MI July 2017 to June 2019 Michigan  WORCS 2.0(Workers Compensation System)    Working for State Of Michigan(DTMB) as a Senior Software Developer. Responsible to develop an application in Asp.Net Core 2.0 and angular 4/5/6 with type script. WORCS is a legacy application, and our main responsibility is to understand the legacy application and convert into an Angular 6 with WEB API in the backend using C# robust application. Database we use is Sql Server 2017 to preserve the data migrated from legacy Database. Shared services are used to implement GET and POST attributes and connect to WEB API for navigation of data. TFS GIT is used as Source Control for the Project. WORCS 2.0 includes Employers, Claimants, Insurance Coverages and Compensatoins.Agile methodology is used to implement the project and every functionality is developed as a User Story.    Responsibilities:  • Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET MVC Framework (C#.NET, Entity Framework).  • Worked with Asp.Net Core 2.0 and implemented using repository pattern.  • Angular 4 with Type script and Angular material are used to design the UI pages.  • Implemented shared Services to connect to WEB API from angular and then connect to database using Entity Framework and database is Sql Server 2015.  • Implemented Continuous integration and Continuous deployment for the applications.  • Worked on different components like ngdragula, matDialog and different components to achieve the required functionality.  • Worked on SSRS Reports and create Pdfs on click from the Page.  • Implement agile scrum methodology in application development.  • Worked on User story basis , used TFS 2017 to maintain the User Stories.  • Test Cases using Nunit framework for the applications.  • Maintained the application which is in production environment and make the changes according to requirements.  • Used Pipes to filter the data , used custom pipes to implement the currency symbols, percentages and etc.  • Used third party libraries for implementing new symbols using font awesome and bootstrap v4.  • Worked with Visual studio 2017 for backend code and visual studio code for angular.  • Worked on Dependency Injection in Controllers and service layer and developed application along with testing the code using Unit Test. Implemeneted Integration testing by inserting records and deleting them using Entity Framework. Software Developer J P MORGAN CHASE - Wilmington, DE March 2016 to May 2017 Colombus,OH    UDBA Transition: The department I worked for is Mortgage Banking. The applications we are working on are related to adding referrals and tracking the loan origination records. The applications are using MVC 4.0 with razor view engine. Database is accessed using Mongo DB(NoSQL) in the application. Used Control-m to schedule the jobs which trigger the web services. Wrote test methods using n-unit for the applications. Implemented Continuous integration and Continuous deployment for all the applications. For ARM (Automated Release Management) wrote the Scripts in PowerShell to trigger the Deployment Process. Acted as Application security champion for the application resolving the Open Redirect Errors and SQL injection errors. Worked on the production issues, raising ITSM for the change management. SSRS are used to build the reports and embed them within the application.    Responsibilities:  • Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET MVC Framework (C#.NET, ADO.NET).  • Implemented Continuous integration and Continuous deployment for the applications.  • Static Code Analysis of .Net application using Vera code to eliminate the Vulnerabilities.  • Implemented client side functionality using jQuery  • Implement agile scrum methodology in application development.  • Implemented the Deployment using PowerShell scripts.  • Created WCF, WCF REST Services and also used different bindings to make it available to different Customers.  • Worked as a Mid-Level Developer responsible for Designing, development of member maintenance UI.  • Test Cases using Nunit framework for the applications.  • Implemented singleton factory design pattern for the object creation.  • Maintained the application which is in production environment and make the changes according to requirements.  • Developed various generic foundational classes to be used across different applications within the system.  • Troubleshooting performance issues and fine-tuning queries and stored procedures.  • Written stored procedures, triggers, performance tuning & optimization.  • Worked on PROD support issues to resolve in timely manner.  • Analysis of FDDs to make sure there are no ambiguous requirements.  • Worked on creating FID's and access them for specific functionality  • Used agile Methodologies in developing web application.  • Gave Production support once web applications are deployed into production. Software Developer NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT - New York, NY August 2013 to February 2016 New York    Access Conversion Project: Quite a large number of access applications are been developed. Converted Access Application to .Net application with .Net 4.0 Framework. Some of them are tiny databases and some are huge. Business logic depends upon the application and their usage. Have to understand the user requirements and develop the legacy application in .NET (Thin Client Application) with MVC 4.0 and Entity Framework database first Model and Code Behind is C# and Backend is SQL Server 2012. Converted almost 40 applications in a Span of 2 Years. These web based applications has lot of ad-hoc and canned reports.  Responsibilities:    • Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET MVC Framework (C#.NET, ADO.NET).  • Implementation of client side validations using jQuery and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at  • Implemented client side functionality using jQuery  • Implement agile scrum methodology in application development.  • Worked as a Developer responsible for Designing, development of member maintenance UI.  • WPF design methodology is used to implement the ASPX web pages.  • Implemented the single page application using AngularJs.  • Involved in implementation of work queues.  • Developed various generic foundational classes to be used across different applications within the system.  • Troubleshooting performance issues and fine-tuning queries and stored procedures.  • Written stored procedures, triggers, performance tuning & optimization.  • Converting Legacy DTS batch processes to SSIS.  • Design, development of framework packages like config reader, Error handling packages to enable component based use approach with in the batch processes.  • Worked on PROD support issues to resolve in timely manner.  • Analysis of FDDs to make sure there are no ambiguous requirements.  • Creation and review of HLD, LLD, Technical design, Unit test case documents.  • Created the API and main site databases in SQL Server  • Created the database maintenance plans which does the nightly backups, rebuilds indexes, purge the transaction logs after the backups are successfully done and keeps the database dump files for 7 days and deletes the older files.  • Used agile Methodologies in developing web application.  • Gave Production support once web applications and win forms are deployed into production.    Environment: Windows 2008, IIS7.0, .NET Framework3.5, SQL Server 2012,JavaScript, C#.NET, ADO.NET, XML, RSA, Workflows, MS Test, Windows Services, WCF. Web Developer Texas A&M University-Kingsville August 2011 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Maintain the Library Website, design the interface and make the changes on the website.  • Implement agile scrum methodology in application development.  • Worked as a Developer responsible for Designing, development of member maintenance UI.  • Efficiently worked with C# Code and developed and deployed the application components. Education Master's Degree in Computer Science Texas A&M University August 2011 to May 2013 Bachelor's of Technology in Information Technology JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2007 to May 2011 Skills C# Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) June 2019 to June 2021 Certified ScrumMaster® (CSM®) - CERTIFIED BADGE  http://bcert.me/spwmbsgus