Software Engineer/ Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer/ developer Doraville, GA I am versatile in multiple Software languages, results driven and goal oriented, as a junior level software developer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer/ Developer Atleisure dev - Atlanta, GA December 2018 to Present Developed web scraping technologies from scratch using   Selenium in Python framework   Duties included full web page scraping and cleaning for clients Software Support Specialist Tmp - Atlanta, GA May 2017 to December 2018 Client side support for front end and back end technologies, including front end technologies HTML,CSS, and Javascript,   With back end support using   C, and SQL Athletic Department Assistant Furman University - Greenville, SC March 2016 to May 2017 Duties consist of active involvement in all sport events on campus. My duties range from maintaining the scoreboard to statistics analyst. This includes maintenance of facilities as well. Athletic events include football, soccer, baseball, softball, tennis, etc. Software Developer Intern IBM - Atlanta, GA May 2016 to August 2016 • Database and web design lead - Led team and designed a DB with a web application for the SIA metrics team using MySQL, PHP, and HTML 5 with CSS.  • Platform Data Management - Individual project that involved updating and managing the current deployment software for the Platform SME. This involved gathering information, configuring and updating systems such as but not limited to, Blue Coat Products, Cisco, Fire EYE, Juniper systems, and Fortinet.  • Automation Dash-Board - Worked with the automation team to create an automated dash for that automatically updates pulling data from Remedy.  • Privileged Identity Management - worked in Remedy to grant permissions for privileged users.  • Fortinet Certification - Utilized one of IBM's Partners to gain security certifications which include, NSE 1 Security sales Associate, NSE 2 Security Sales Associate, NSE 3 Security Sales Associate    ? Duties include researching the use of Java code for word prediction for human-computer interaction for direct control of a computer using brain signals Highschool software instructor BRIDGES FOUNDATION - Greenville, SC June 2014 to August 2015 Introducing and teaching front end technologies to highschool students, with little to no knowledge in the field of programming.   The course covered HTML, CSS, and introduction to JavaScript part time it consultant Envisionary I-Care - Raleigh, NC May 2009 to June 2012 Install and troubleshoot computer network peripherals and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, and equipment, following design or installation specifications; set up equipment ensuring proper installation of cable, operating systems, and appropriate software; conduct computer diagnostics and resolve problems; provide technical assistance and support.  ? Researched and implemented R-Campus application learning management system. Setup TCP/IP protocols on desk tops and lap tops Internship NASA Langley Space Center - Hampton, VA June 2011 to August 2011 Learned MSC.ADAMS, a multi-body dynamics simulation software with Fortran and C++ numerical solvers.  ? Used MSC.ADAMS Software to create a project that implemented objects in a ripple effect.  ? Researched the re-entry of Orian into the atmosphere. Education BS in Computer Science Furman University - Greenville, SC September 2012 to May 2017 Skills HTML (4 years), PHP (4 years), ACCESS (4 years), C# (2 years), DB2 (Less than 1 year), Javascript (2 years), SQL (3 years), MySQL (3 years), Project Management (1 year), C (3 years), Java (4 years), Database Management (2 years), Python (2 years), Excel (4 years), Python (1 year), CSS, HTML 5, Git, ASP, Android Awards Furman University SOCON Football championship 2013-11 Furman University Football Socon Champions Gates Millennium Scholar 2012-04 Fully funded tuition from under grad to post grad Certifications/Licenses Fortinet NSE sales associate 1,2, and 3 Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS AND LANGUAGES  ? Object Oriented Programming, Java(proficient), C#, PYTHON (proficient), HTML(proficient), CSS, PHP (proficient), JavaScript(Prior Experience), Arduino (prior experience), Converting code from C# to java, SQL(Proficient), Eclipse  ? MSC.ADAMS simulation software, testing software  ? Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, Access, Power Point)/ Microsoft Project  ? Database technologies - MySQL, Hadoop, DB2, PHPMyAdmin, SQL Server, Xampp, Wamp, LAMP