Full stack .net developer Full stack .net <span class="hl">developer</span> Full stack .net developer - NEC Corporation of America Irving, TX • Proficient 10+ years of experience as a Full Stack Developer in IT with various roles like Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Web Based, Azure Cloud Applications, Client-Server and N-tier Architectures using .NET Framework.  • Strong working experience with Microsoft Technologies .NET Framework (2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5), ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC 3.0, C#, VB.NET, Web Services, WCF, WPF, LINQ, Entity Framework, IIS, SOAP, XML, DOM, XSL, XSLT, HTML, Java Script, Visual Studio.Net 2013/2012/2010/2008, AJAX, ADO.Net.  • Hands on experience in implementing Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts like Class, Objet, Inheritance and Polymorphism; implemented Design patterns like MVVM, Prism, Abstract factory, Singleton.  • Experience on working with Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), Windows Work Flow Foundation (WWF) and Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) in .NET 4.0/3.0.  • Experience in building Complex UI applications using advanced JS frameworks like Angular JS. Involved in building a rich web experiences using HTML5/CSS/bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Experience in writing Components, Pipes and Services to separate concern and handle different situations by applying Angular 2.  • Experience in working with third party payment gateway service providers like USAePay, REPAY, LoanPaymentPro as a full service provider of electronic transaction processing services for retail merchants, offering a comprehensive line of solutions that include credit and debit cards, gift cards, ACH, bank account verification, electronic bill payment and instant funding.  • Experience in data object models like Language-Integrated Query (LINQ) and Entity Data frame work to retrieve and modify data and developed entity data frame work services.  • Working knowledge of ASP.NET MVC pattern: Controller Actions, View Engine, HTML Helper methods, Entity Framework Model.  • Developed ASP.NET MVC 4 applications using Code First Approach in Entity Framework 4 and UI in Razor View Engine and have experience with the MVC Architecture.  • Experience in using ASP.NET AJAX framework for quickly creating efficient and interactive Web applications that work across all popular browsers.  • Experienced with Microsoft Application building blocks for .Net projects (Data Access, Exception Handling, Caching and Configuration Management Application Blocks).  • Experienced in Service Oriented Architecture [SOA] using Windows communication foundation.  • Expertise in creating web based application using technologies like Classic ASP, AJAX Toolkit, JavaScript, XML, HTML and DHTML.  • Worked extensively with ADO.NET objects such as Data Adapter, Dataset, and Data Reader to interact with databases like SQL Server 2008/2005 & Oracle 10g/11g.  • Experience in database related work primarily creating complex stored procedure, DTS packages, Views, Triggers, Functions, using PL/SQL, T-SQL.  • Experience in creating and scheduling the SQL Server agent jobs to pull the data from different data sources using SSIS packages and link servers.  • Experience in authentication mechanisms like windows live, STS, Windows-based Authentication, Forms-based Authentication and in Authorizing Users and Roles.  • Very good experience with Reporting Tools SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Experienced in Configuration Management, setting up company Version policies, build schedule using (TFS) Team Foundation Server 2010 and Visual Source Safe (VSS), GIT, Source Depot, Perforce.  • Strong in object oriented programming (OOPS) principles such as Encapsulation, Polymorphism, Inheritance and Data Abstraction.  • Experience in deploying, configuring and maintaining the web sites and services on IIS 7.0 with and without secured socket layer.  • Extensive working experience in unit testing framework - NUNIT and MS Unit.  • Proficient with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile methodologies of development process such as requirement analysis, design, prototyping, proof of concept, coding, testing and implementation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full stack .net developer NEC Corporation of America - Irving, TX January 2018 to Present Description:  7-Eleven's Card Parameter Manager has been installed in 2003 and has not been upgraded in 13 years. It is over capacity and inefficient for today's business demands and has no multi user capability. To accomplish these objectives 7-Eleven is embarking on CPM Rewrite project with NEC Corporation of America (NECAM) and other supporting vendors as needed. The main functionalities of this project is to increase the features of the CPM client Application to provide Business friendly interface (GUI) and add multi user capability so that maintenance can be moved from IT to appropriate Business for accountability and control.    Responsibilities:  • Reevaluate CPM (base code still from 2003) to increase functionality and provide a more user (business) friendly interface (GUI).  • Increase capacity of processing Card Assignments.  • Designed different components using C# and Script Sharp language with extensive use of Object Oriented Programming Techniques (OOPS) like Abstract Classes, polymorphism, Interfaces etc.  • Simplify new card set up and add multiple user capability.  • To re - architect the existing CPM windows application as a responsive web application.  • Ability to change accesses to Roles from the CPM GUI.  • Functional security based on User Groups.  • Support 25000 bin or product ranges on one product.  • Provide checks and balances across the board to ensure accurate card data and minimize errors.  • Generation and processing of incremental files as and when needed.  • ESL to support CPM file transfer to the store.    Environment: C#, ASP.Net MVC 4, Entity Framework, Angular2, Bootstrap, Oracle 11g, TFS. Senior Software Engineer Lighthouse e Discovery - Seattle, WA September 2016 to January 2018 Description:  Naviz is an enterprise level self-service BI platform. Business User and Super user can blend, curate, transform and stage data without writing a line code. Naviz brings the agility for data analysis by creating enterprise level data blending and cube creation with a click of a button.  Naviz delivers faster time to market for Insights delivery and reporting. Most businesses have their cubes and analysis tables built in. Instead of investing in building a data visualization solution, Naviz provides a ready drag and drop data visualization solution.  Responsibilities:  • As a Sr. Software Engineer and team member, involved in process oriented SDLC to perform system study, design, develop, maintain and deliver features/bugs using agile development methodology.  • Majorly involved in the retail domain data of the client from the POS and blend the data to create business driven reports.  • Designed different components using C# and Script Sharp language with extensive use of Object Oriented Programming Techniques (OOPS) like Abstract Classes, polymorphism, Interfaces etc.  • Undergo knowledge transfer, system study (including dependencies), gather requirements through interacting with business users/vendors, program/product/QA manager, middle tier app team.  • Analyze, estimate, and implement features/bugs described in approved design/blue print document or user stories.  • Implement code modules in C#.Net as necessary to meet requirements / design.  • Develop/modify client-side java script code (use existing libraries or create custom plug-ins wherever required).  • Designed a service to fetch the response from API based on the user inputs and pass the response to UI layer.  • Develop and use controller classes interfacing with model & view.  • Develop and use view model and implement custom data annotations for validation.  • Implement build/release definitions to set and follow continuous Integration and Deployment process.  • Identify problems and learn specific input and output requirements, such as forms of data input, how data is to be summarized and formatted for reports.  • Test and review application system capabilities, analyze work flow and scheduling limitations to determine if required program change is possible within the existing system.  • Perform self-review, send code for peer reviewing, and unit testing.  • Perform server/client-side debugging, performance tuning, troubleshooting, and to use necessary developer tools.  Environment: C#, ASP.Net MVC 4, Entity Model, JQuery, SQL Server 2012, TFS. Senior Software Developer Advance Financial - Nashville, TN April 2014 to September 2016 Description:  fiNext is the next generation solution for alternative financial lending services industry. The solution is designed to be a customer centric, channel agnostic solution to enhance the customer experience while maximizing the overall revenue potential for the lending company.  fiNext is aimed to be transcendental solution that redefines the computing in the short term lending industry and moved the focus away from being a point of sale or a lending management system to a ubiquitous information system.  Responsibilities:  • Developed WCF services and REST Services to expose data in JSON formats will be consumed by UI layer.  • Implemented payment gateway service providers using their APIs/Web Services for accepting credit card and electronic check payments through the website.  • Developed Data Access Layer, Business Layers to get data to service Layer.  • Used TPL for the process of adding parallelism and concurrency to applications.  • Involved in design and review of architecture of the entire system  • Managed the project from end to end including talking to the business on the requirements, functional specification, customer reviews, and sync up with developers.  • Business and functional reviews with customer on the data and UI.  • Used JQuery for various client side validations.  • Mentoring the team and managing the project with respect to various aspects like agile development, daily coordination with the offshore team, helping with technical challenges, tracking the work etc.  • Perform on time code drops to QA environment and make sure that there are no show stoppers.  Environment: C#, ASP.Net MVC 4, Entity Model, WEB API, ODATA, JQuery, Angular JS, SQL Server 2012, IIS, Visual Studio 2013, WCF Senior Software Developer Cerner Healthcare - Kansas City, MO December 2012 to April 2014 Description:  RadNet is an online, radiology information system that enables you to automate many of the processes in the Radiology Department. It fully supports the fundamental activities like Ordering procedures, viewing an online work list, Starting and completing exams, Reviewing and signing out cases, Evaluating the image, including formulating the radiology report, Managing Mammography exams and follow-up.  Responsibilities:  • Development of Data Access and Business components in C#.Net  • Development of the UI Forms and Adding functionality to Forms.  • Develop, optimize and tune SQL queries, SP, UDF, triggers, indexes, and views.  • Responsibilities also include performance tuning, troubleshooting, and preparing best practice documents.  • Mentoring the team and managing the project with respect to various aspects like agile development, daily coordination with the offshore team, helping with technical challenges, tracking the work etc.  Environment: C#.Net, VS2010, SQL Server 2012, OOPs, WCF, ADO.NET, Subversion Control. New UX (Physician Portal) American Health Tech - Ridgeland, MS August 2010 to December 2012 Role: Senior Software Developer  Description:  Physician portal is developed as a web-based application, which provides physicians and nurses easy access to resident Health information whenever they need, increasing accuracy, workflow, and the ability to deliver consistent high quality care.  Responsibilities:  • Developed WCF services to expose data in JSON formats will be consumed by UI layer.  • Developed Data Access Layer, Business Layers to get data to service Layer in VB.NET.  • Writing SQL Scripts for tables, SPs, Views & Triggers  • Developed/maintain unit test scripts built using MSTS  • Developed visual components through WPF using XAML and Expression Blend.  • Used Binding, Styles, Data Template, Control Template, Routed Events, Converters, Layout Panels in XAML  Environment: VB.NET, WCF, SQL Server, OOPs, ADO.NET, VS 2010, WPF Education Bachelor's Skills Ado, Ado.net, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 11i