Mobile Developer Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Mobile Developer - Mbouendeu LLC Norman, OK Permanently learn, improve, and have an impact on the organization. Work Experience Mobile Developer Mbouendeu LLC March 2019 to Present We are developing two hybrids apps(a food and transportation ) using React Native, one  with Firebase and another with AWS. I am building UI's, connect with Redux, fetch and display the data. Faculty Aid / Software Developer Harvard University Extension School September 2018 to January 2019 I was Working on a phone survey application using ( JavaScript (GoJs), AWS), where users  can create their personal phone survey using a drag and drop interface. My main focus was to generate a JSON file from surveys created. Software Developer Backbone Corp August 2014 to October 2017 I have helped to improve an existing Educational Application (Web and Desktop) using  JAVA (Spring-Hibernate), MySQL, Bootstrap where users can register their institutions and add various services such as students registration management, Staff management, and  grades management. I have added some micro services and have helped to improve some  existent API's services.  • We have developed a telemedicine Application (TeleDocta) where users can have access to remote healthcare services. The technologies stack was Angular JS, Meteor JS, and Mongo  DB. I have improved the persistence level of the API designing and implementing some  complex queries and make it consumable with HTTP web services.  • I was also responsible for technical documentation and client training solutions Network & System Administrator Genesis Telecare August 2010 to July 2013 I was responsible for network installations/maintenance (Hardware & Software) and network administration at Genesis Telecare using Linux, CISCO and Shell. I was also  working on software maintenance, Documentation, technologies training, and software  development. We have developed our custom echography management system using JAVA, and SQLite Education Bachelor in Computer Science Harvard University Extension School 2016 to 2018 AS in Software Development Oklahoma City Community College 2014 to 2016 License in Professionelle African Institute of Computer Science 2007 to 2011 Skills .net, C#, Django, Firebase, Html Links https://github.com/hervekaffo