Software Developer (Contractor) <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Contractor) Software Engineer Camp Hill, PA Software engineer with 8+ years of experience in software industry, especially web and mobile application development. Hands-on experience developing ERP, CRM, and other enterprise-level solutions. Strong ability to train, mentor, and lead elite technical teams. Passionate about Machine Learning and Deep Learning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer (Contractor) Deloitte Consulting LLP - Mechanicsburg, PA August 2018 to Present • Maintained and improved existing web applications using Visual Basic .NET and AngularJS 1.7.  • Automated a daily manual report using Mechanicalsoup and Openpyxl in Python, which reduced time preparing a daily report – from 2 hours to around 3 minutes.  • Converted an existing website to a MVC web application using ASP.NET MVC and SQL Server Express.  • Automated a Business Metrics Report using C#, PowerShell script, MS Office Interop, and Task Scheduler.  • Developed a log parsing tool for batch programs using C# and Log Parser. The tool enabled stability monitoring of batch processes. Technology Manager ITZone LLC - Ulaanbaatar January 2015 to October 2017 Consulted with stakeholders and technical teams to determine and document project requirements; lead technical teams and mentor junior developers. Recommended and implemented best practices for development processes.    Tasks Performed:  • Developed a website crawler. Cleaned and prepared data for Deep Learning category classification model using Python, Numpy and Panda.  • Conducted MVP coding for a chat bot using Python, Java and AWS (Elastic Beanstalk).  • Led development of base solution and microservice architecture for an enterprise invoicing system.  • Led development process. Oversaw technical troubleshooting.  • Assisted in project launch and post-launch maintenance.  • Supported developers and performed coding and testing. Migrated system to updated version.  • Led a development team for enterprise order system. Designed user interfaces and assisted developers in designing new features. Conducted unit testing.    Achievements:  • Improved productivity of Agile-Scrum team by 10% by replacing 4 different tools by Team Foundation Server.  • Reduced building and deployment time from 30 minutes to 15 minutes by introducing Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD).    Technologies Used: Amazon Web Services, Elastic Beanstalk, Spring Boot, Django, Java, Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Windows, IIS, ASP.NET MVC, OAuth 2, JSON Web Token (JWT), TFS, CI/CD, Git, Visual Studio, VMWare, Spring Tool Suite, Ubuntu, Apache Tomcat, jQuery, ExtJS JavaScript Framework, Visual C#, Developer Studio, Windows Server, Oracle Senior Software Engineer ITZone LLC - Ulaanbaatar 2013 to 2015 Developed web application and assisted testing and development teams.    Tasks Performed:  • Designed and implemented more than 100 new web forms and reports using C#.NET, jQuery, ExtJS and PL / SQL, including stored procedures, triggers, and functions.  • Developed custom controls for all teams, incorporating interconnected submodules using ExtJS and jQuery.  • Led technical troubleshooting; conducted unit and integration testing.  • Led development of web module for Human Resources Management System. Implemented new design and user interface. Conducted unit test and maintained system stability. Assisted testers and developers.  • Oversaw creation of online employment application system. Conducted coding and code review.    Achievements:  • Played critical role in developing ERP system including subsystems for CRM, HRM, SCM and PoS modules. Implemented multi-tier and MVC architecture.  • Served integral role in developing standardized framework that accelerated business logic implementation for software engineering teams. Led development of base solution and architecture for web applications.    Technologies Used: Visual C#, Developer Studio, Windows, Windows Server, Oracle, ASP.NET WebForms, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, ExtJS Framework, C#, JavaScript, Node.js, Visual Studio, PL / SQL Developer, Tortoise, Git, Linux, Kendo UI Mobile Web Developer MCS Electronics - Ulaanbaatar January 2011 to October 2012 Tasks Performed:  • Developed a unique base solution from scratch using ASP.NET WebForms, C# and Javascript for Human Resource web application. The base solution with modifications was used a core web framework for future web applications.  • Developed cloud-based point-of-sale application as SaaS model using ASP.NET MVC and Silverlight.  • Implemented user interfaces and new features. Conducted unit testing and ensured system stability.    Technologies Used: Visual C#, Developer Studio, Windows, Windows Server, Oracle, ASP.NET MVC, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, ExtJS Framework, Silverlight, SQLite, XAML, Ajax, PL / SQL Developer, Tortoise SVN, CSS3 Sofware Engineer GrapeCity Mongolia - Ulaanbaatar March 2010 to September 2010 GrapeCity Mongolia is a software vendor with 80 employees, specializing in payment, banking and microfinance solutions.    Maintained software and developed new features using .NET Framework.    Tasks Performed:  ? Conducted coding and code review. Maintained system stability and assisted with launch.    Achievement:  ? Improved brute-force implementation code for teller module using C#. Ensured cleaner, more readable code.    Technologies Used: C#, Windows Forms Application, Oracle, Visual Studio, Toad, Windows Software Engineer Desktop Asia - Ulaanbaatar March 2009 to October 2009 Desktop Asia was a dynamic start-up software company serving pharmaceutical industry.    Played key role in developing E-Pharm web application using PHP.    Tasks Performed:  ? Performed front-end and back-end development. Developed portal website using PHP.    Technologies Used: PHP, Ajax, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JQuery Plugins, HTML, CSS, MySQL, WAMP, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Flash, Windows Network Engineer assistant Intern Baganuur JSC - Baganuur district, Ulaanbaatar June 2008 to September 2008 My responsibilities were to assist Network Engineer with diagnosing network infrastructure problems to assist in maintaining the enterprise network system and help employees that using computer. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA October 2017 to June 2020 Bachelor of Science in Hardware & Software Engineering Mongolian University of Science & Technology - Ulaanbaatar August 2004 to January 2009 Skills Information Technology, C# (6 years), Python (2 years), Java (2 years), Asp.Net (5 years), Software Development (7 years), Git, Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bbatja https://github.com/bbatjargal/ Awards First place out of 10 teams in Seedstars Ulaanbaatar 2017, Tata.tunga 2017 First place out of 60 teams in Android 2011 Competition, Aircraft Android Game 2011 First place out of 13 teams in Mobile Content Development Competition 2009, MonScript Message Application 2009 Certifications/Licenses Deep Learning Specialization June 2018 to Present The Deep Learning Specialization is designed to prepare learners to participate in the development of cutting-edge AI technology, and to understand the capability, the challenges, and the consequences of the rise of deep learning. Through five interconnected courses, learners develop a profound knowledge of the hottest AI algorithms, mastering deep learning from its foundations (neural networks) to its industry applications (Computer Vision, Natural Language Processing, Speech Recognition, etc.).    https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/specialization/certificate/MWR32626Z946 Deep Learning A-Z™: Hands-On Artificial Neural Networks June 2018 to Present Learn to create Deep Learning Algorithms in Python.    - Understand the intuition behind Artificial Neural Networks  - Apply Artificial Neural Networks in practice  - Understand the intuition behind Convolutional Neural Networks  - Apply Convolutional Neural Networks in practice  - Understand the intuition behind Recurrent Neural Networks  - Apply Recurrent Neural Networks in practice  - Understand the intuition behind Self-Organizing Maps  - Apply Self-Organizing Maps in practice  - Understand the intuition behind Boltzmann Machines  - Apply Boltzmann Machines in practice  - Understand the intuition behind AutoEncoders  - Apply AutoEncoders in practice    https://www.udemy.com/certificate/UC-OI589C6J/