Software Developer In Test <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> In Test Software Developer In Test - NCINO Wilmington, NC Work Experience Software Developer In Test NCINO - Wilmington, NC May 2016 to Present Designed and developed Ncino's in house testing framework.  Adapted google coding style to met the team needs.   Established coding standards as well as code reviews and merging standards.  Adapted the framework to utilize technologies such as Docker, headless browsers and Saucelabs (Which  includes adapting our tests to run in parallel on a smaller but expandable scale).  Worked with my team to update automated test scripts and ensured their validity across multiple browsers.  Designed architectural change to conduct historical analyses of test results, test steps, and page load times.  Consulted with various customers ( example: BoA and M&T ) about their approach to automation and the creation of their automation framework.  Worked with team to develop smoke tests, regression test suites and procedures to determine product quality and release readiness.  Designed a wrapper class to enhance the capabilities of the selenium web driver to suit company needs.  Planned test schedules and strategies in accordance with release date deadlines.  Documented software defects, using a bug tracking system called Jira, and reported defects to software  developers.  Created performance testing suites for complex and time consuming problems.  Interviewed new candidates as well as mentored automation engineers to become contributing team  members.  Leaded lunch and learns and training workshops on our in house testing framework. QA Engineer NCINO - Wilmington, NC June 2014 to August 2016 Designed test plans for end to end, smoke, and regression test for legacy and new features.  Tested software in customer environments to ensure the migration did not affect data integrity.  Scheduled customer conference calls to review defects and gained a deeper understanding of end user's  experience.  Developed tests that addressed areas such as database impacts, software scenarios, regression testing, negative testing, error or bug retests, or usability.  Monitored bug resolution efforts and tracked successes. Software Developer NCINO - Wilmington, NC September 2013 to June 2014 Implemented an integration with PrecisionLender for a seamless pricing software experience.  Enhanced a preexisting document management tool to allow users to organize document placeholders  efficiently.  Assisted with integration of legacy document manager code into the nCino Loan origination platform.  Worked with team to add unit tests to increase code coverage to company standards. Lead Software Developer CENTURION SYSTEMS - Greensboro, NC December 2009 to June 2013 Assisted in the design and implementation of mobile menu app.  Built UI for a Beta gauge system to allow data access across the entire plant. Education B.S. in Computer Science NORTH CAROLINA A&T STATE UNIVERSITY - Greensboro, NC December 2009 Skills Jira, Selenium, Selenium webdriver, Testng, Docker, Git, Gradle, Javascript, Java, Salesforce (6 years), MYSQL