RPA Developer RPA <span class="hl">Developer</span> RPA Developer Frisco, TX • Over all 6+ years of experience in Information Technology. 1.5+ years of Experience in Robotic Process Automation (RPA) using the tool UiPath.  • Certified in UiPath RPA Developer Foundation Training, Orchestrator Training and SAP Automation Training.  • Microsoft Certified, Developing and Implementing Web Applications with Microsoft Visual C# .NET and Microsoft Visual Studio .NET  • Microsoft Certified, Designing and Optimizing Data Access by Using Microsoft SQL Server 2005  • Hands-on Experience in UiPath Studio, Orchestrator, Different Recording Techniques, Screen, Data, Web Scraping Techniques, Debugging Techniques and Exception Handling.  • Worked with Web Data Extraction Technique to extract Structured, Tabled and Patterned based Data.  • Experience in implementing various UiPath Activities, Selectors, and Data Tables etc.  • Worked on Image, Text, Email, Excel and PDF Automations.  • Good Understanding on usage of various UiPath Orchestrator functionalities like Bots, Processes, Assets, Jobs, Schedulers and Logging Methods.  • Experience in different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Methodologies like Design, Development and Testing.  • Knowledge of Software Development Models: Waterfall and Agile\Scrum Methodologies.  • Knowledge of SQL Server, SQL, UNIX and Adobe Photoshop.  • Knowledge of Robotic Process Automation (RPA) using the tool Pega Robotics (Formally Known as OpenSpan).  • Knowledge in using Pega Robotics Windows and Web Adapters during the development of Bots in OpenSpan.  • Knowledge in developing bots to communicate between a windows application and a web application to retrieve customer information in OpenSpan.  • Knowledge in Pega Robotics Debugging Procedures and Exception Handling Techniques.  • Proficiently used Microsoft DotNet Technologies and implemented Object Oriented Programming Concepts (OOP) to develop applications.  • Experience in developing stored procedures for data transactions with the Databases, in the Applications.  • Experience in performing different kinds of testing like Functional, GUI, Integration, Backend, Regression and System Testing.  • Automated numerous routine tasks using UiPath, thereby reducing manual intervention.  • Enthusiastic in learning new concepts and apply them effectively when needed.  • Strong interpersonal skills, analytical and problem solving skills with the ability to work individually as well as a team player. Good verbal and written communication skills. Ability to work in Multi-Platform Environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience RPA Developer Liberty Bank, CT July 2018 to May 2019 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Business Analysts to create PDD (Process Definition Document)  • Produced Automations, using both Automatic (Basic, Desktop, Web) and Manual Recording techniques(Hot Keys, Keyboard simulations).  • Extracted the data to process, using various UiPath Screen Scraping techniques like full text, Native in the Automations.  • Created DataTables to store the extracted data and then saved to .csv files.  • Used String Operations to carry out string search, comparisons for sending emails etc.  • Well versed with the UI Elements.  • Able to login into a Web portal and extracted Structured data using Data Scraping Technique and saved it into Excel Worksheets.  • Deployed the published packages in the Orchestrator and scheduled bots to execute the jobs.  • Performed Email Automation by utilizing Send Email Activities to email reports and errors.  • Edited and optimized the Selectors for optimal execution of workflows.  • Handled Data in the processes using Data Tables, .CSV files, Excel Commands etc.  • Implemented the Image Recognition and Text Recognition activities to automate processes.  • Implemented Exception handling throughout the project for error handling.  • Monitored and logged all the Exceptions encountered during the development of workflows.  • Closely worked with the Production team to resolve any production issues.  • Thoroughly followed naming conventions, to name the flowcharts and the actions in workflows.  • Good Analytical Ability to troubleshoot bots and provide required solution.  Environment:  UiPath, ASP.NET, SQL Server, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Windows Office, Angular JS. RPA Developer MassMutual Financial Group, MA October 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on design, development, testing and deployment of bots using UiPath.  • Responsible for analyzing and identifying the suitable business processes for automation.  • Worked closely with the business team to create PDD.  • Extensively used different Recordings techniques like Basic, Web etc. and Screen, Web Scraping techniques in the project.  • Used Input Methods like Default, Simulate Type/Click for inserting and logging data actions into the web browsers while implementing the Web Recorder.  • Implemented image activities for proper website or application loading and then to carry out certain actions in the logic.  • Extensively implemented Exception Handling using the Try/Catch Activity throughout the project.  • Implemented various control flow activities like, for each activity, if activity, assign activity in different workflows.  • Utilized the Email Automation to send automated emails in case of any issues and reports.  • Worked on the Excel and CSV Activities in the workflows for Data Processing.  • Automated text in PDF files using screen scraping to calculate the invoices and store them into a CSV file.  • Image based and Text automation were used, for interacting with the application.  • Used Orchestrator to manage Schedules and Robots to carry out assigned automations.  • Effectively troubleshoot any issues in the automations using debugging procedures like breakpoints, slow step etc.  • Provided support to any production related issues.  Environment:  UiPath, C# .NET, SQL Server, XML, HTML, Java Script, CSS Software Application Developer Travelers, CT May 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed the web forms using ASP.NET server controls, CSS style sheets and Validation Controls  • Used ADO.Net classes to communicate with the SQL database for the parts information.  • Implemented Data Grid Control to display the data in the web forms.  • Developed stored procedures for updating and maintaining the database with the parts information.  • Used query strings and session variables to maintain the data between the web forms.  • Implemented Exception Handling to ensure efficient application execution.  • Performed validations using validation controls like Required Field Validator, Compare Validator etc.  • Performed unit testing in development environment.  • Updated the Status in the daily Scrum meetings.  Environment:  Microsoft .Net Framework, C#.NET, Microsoft Visual Studio, ADO.NET, SQL Server, CSS, XML and HTML Software Application Developer Insurity Inc March 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing and maintenance of Training Module.  • Developed the UI using Web Server Controls, Validation Controls and ASP.NET web forms.  • Involved in the UI customization of the Training module by developing CSS classes.  • Performed validations using ASP.NET validation controls.  • Loaded the data into the data grid control using ADO.NET, to display on the web forms.  • Executed Stored Procedures on the SQL Server, to edit or select any course information or course schedules.  • Used link buttons in the data grid control to select any course and view further details about the course.  • Involved in QA cycle, fixing any issues.  • Used CSS to create Fonts, Textboxes, Grid and other things at the front end.  Environment:  Microsoft Visual Studio, C#.Net, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS, SQL Server, IIS QA Tester Visual Technologies Inc January 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Participated in business requirements, test cases review, user requests and bug scrubs meetings.  • Analyzed Business Requirements (BR) and Application design documents and created Traceability Matrix interlinking the test requirements and test cases.  • Analyzed User requirements attended Change Request meetings to document changes and implemented procedures to test changes  • Created test plans and test cases for functional testing, unit testing, system testing, environment testing and user-acceptance testing, ad hoc testing, alpha testing  • Created SQL queries for the backend testing.  • Extensively used Quality Center for Test planning, Bug tracking, and Reporting.  • Attended daily scrum meeting to discuss the progress of the project and involved in defect migration and retesting in QA environments.  Environment:  Windows Server 2003/XP, NIX, UPHP, Perl, J2EE, IE6.0, Mozilla Firefox 2.0, Safari, Load Runner 2.0, Apache web server and Python. Education Bachelor's in Electronics and Communication Engineering EEC - TAMIL NADU, IN Skills UiPath, Orchestrator, Ms access, OpenSpan, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, .net, Visual studio, C#, Html, Javascript, Xml, Css, Asp.net, Unix, Windows 10, Windows 7, Linux Certifications/Licenses UiPath Foundation Training Present UiPath Orchestrator Training Present UiPath RPA Developer SAP Automation Training Present Microsoft Certified, Developing and Implementing Web Applications with Microsoft Visual C# .NET and Microsoft Visual Studio .NET Microsoft Certified, Designing and Optimizing Data Access by Using Microsoft SQL Server 2005