Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Optimal Solutions Group LLC Silver Spring, MD 5+ years of experience in different phases of SDLC including design, development, integration, implementation, testing, maintenance, and mentoring in multiple client/server, multi-tiered web based applications. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer Optimal Solutions Group LLC - College Park, MD July 2016 to Present • Cloud based surveying tool that captures real time data and processes it.   • Involved in development of web-based data management application using .Net Framework, C#, MS SQL Server, ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework, AngularJS, Web Services, JQuery, Telerik controls and Agile methodology.   • Working with ASP.NET Razor framework, Caching, LINQ, Windows / Forms Authentication and developed custom User Controls. Developed and maintained SQL Stored procedures and objects for backend development.  • Implemented automated test cases using Microsoft Unit Test Framework/MOQ for test driven development. Built logic to achieve automated recurring payment using PayPal Payflow.   • Configured TeamCity for continuous builds of product and integrated it with Octopus to deploy product to test and release environments. Software Engineer Client- Officetree Corporation - San Diego, CA March 2013 to July 2014 • Office applications suit that manages customers, companies, invoices, and provides customer support.  • Involved in various phases of developing software starting from the project planning production and maintenance using .Net Framework 4.5, MS SQL Server 2012/2008, JavaScript, AJAX, Web Services.  • Worked with ASP.NET Web Forms, State Management, caching features, for optimization and configuration of the web application using C#.NET  • Designed, developed, and performed troubleshooting using ASP.NET MVC 4, JQuery, HTML5 Razor, XML, WCF, WPF and CSS3 using Agile development practices.  • Used JSON to transmit data between Server and Web Application.    • Used Rich server controls of ASP.NET such as data grid and repeater controls.  • Worked on SQL Server 2008/2012 to write Stored Procedures (Packages, Procedures, Functions) for back end development.  • Worked on requirements gathering/develop/design fast track CRs (Change Requests) using C#. Ability to work independently and drive issues to closure.  • Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS) and SVN for all the source code maintenance among the whole team members. Software Engineer Manek Tech - Ahmedabad, Gujarat August 2010 to March 2013 India  • E-Prescription Portal for Dentists.  • Involved in developing software using .Net Framework 4.0, MS SQL Server 2008/2012, JavaScript, AJAX, Web Services, DevExpress and Telerik third party controls.  • Developed solutions for diverse programming scenarios in C#, employing Object Oriented Programming (OOPs).  • Implemented the business logic in the middle tier using C#.NET and used Master Pages templates, CSS, Ajax, and Themes to define unified look and feel for the application.  • Utilized ADO.Net technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ.  • Extensively involved in generating pdf reports using DevExpress and Telerik third party controls.  • Extensively used ASP.NET server controls like Calendar control, Data Grid.  • Implemented exception handling and developed custom error pages and developed the back end layer for the work flow solution  • Created and developed independent WCF (Windows Communication Foundation) services and defined Service Contracts for specific functionality in search module.  • Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS) for all the source code maintenance among the whole team members. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science California State University - Los Angeles, CA September 2014 to June 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Babaria Institute of Technology, Vadodara, Gujarat University - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2007 to April 2011 Skills .Net (5 years), ASP (5 years), ASP.NET (5 years), C# (5 years), MS .NET (5 years), jQuery, Javascript, CSS, HTML 5 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/parthchavda Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages: C#, SQL, Java, VB.NET, C, Python, C++, VB, PL/SQL  Web Technologies  : HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, JQuery, ASP.NET AJAX, MVC, Web Services, WCF,  JSP, ASP, RESTFul Services, Bootstrap, Java Servlets, JSTL, EJB.    MS Framework: .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5  Databases: MS SQL Server 2012/2014/2016, MySQL, MongoDB, Oracle 10g/11g, DB2, PostgreSQL.  Packages: Microsoft Visual Studio, SQL Server Management Studio, Eclipse, TOAD, Net Beans  Version Control Tools: Git, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Tortoise SVN, Visual Source Safe (VSS).