Salesforce Developer/Admin Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin Salesforce Developer/Admin - Tavant Atlanta, GA ? 8+ years of experience in salesforce.com CRM using Administration, development, deployment, lightning component development. 1+ years of experience as software Developer.  ? Experience and Knowledge in Sales, Service, Marketing and Analytics Cloud.  ? Used Data loader for loading the attachments into salesforce.com, with regard to objects like Contacts, Accounts and Activities.  ? Good understanding of salesforce architecture with classic and lightning user interface.  ? Good knowledge on Apex development in creating custom objects, fields, tabs, Triggers, Bulk Triggers, Apex Classes, Master-Detail relationships, Validation rules, Workflows, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers and Controller Extensions and Test Classes.  ? Knowledge on salesforce setup menu, configuration, custom app development and deployment of apps into the force.com platform.  ? Worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for continues integration and for end to end automation for all build and deployments.  ? Experience in import/export data using Data loader, Informatica cloud connector from legacy CRM database into salesforce.com ? Knowledge in developing salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers and Events.  ? Experience in building lightning components using the aura framework.  ? Worked on building reports, dashboards, analytics snapshot using custom repot types for the business users, management for higher visibility.  ? Strong experience in Salesforce development using Apex and Visualforce and to debug Apex.  ? Worked on different CRM modules like sales and service cloud, working knowledge on Apttus CPQ, CLM and ERP applications.  ? Accountable for the data maintenance and data integrity within the force.com platform, accounts and cases.  ? Experience in salesforce.com sandbox and production environments for deployment and experience in managing Full Sandbox, Developer Sandbox and Configuration-only Sandbox.  ? Experience in Customized existing Visualforce to align with salesforce new Lightning UI experience.  ? Experience with one of the object-oriented programming, like C#.  ? Designing many different modules like data parsing which was develop by using C#.  ? Designed databases and wrote queries using SQL.  ? Experience in using change sets and ANT Tool for deploying changes from instance to another.  ? Knowledge on ANT, Eclipse IDE with Force.com plugin environment to create & implement business logic in Apex ? Data migration using import wizard, excel connector, workbench and other integration tools like, Apex Data Loader ? Experience in web development services like HTML, CSS, JavaScript and bootstrap.  ? Good communication, problem solving, debugging & programming skills, accustomed to working in both large and small team environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Admin Tavant - Atlanta, GA February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:   ? Experience in using force.com toolkit including Alex Classes, triggers and visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  ? Executed pick lists, dependent pick lists, master-detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  ? Developed visualforce pages and displayed them on the community builder.  ? Worked on various CRM modules involving sales and service cloud with functionalities like Opportunity and Case Management.  ? Worked on customization of visual force to have lightening experience for desktop and mobile applications.  ? Worked on creating many Email templates in HTML and visual force. Designed web pages in visual force for capturing various customer enquiries.  ? Experience working in service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  ? Demonstrated deployments of enterprise software systems using industry standard environments including the development of Web Services and system components using C#.  ? Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  ? Worked with Integration and web services. Integrated Salesforce by using Apex Web services and outbound messaging.  ? Created Custom Visual Force email templates and Visual Force pages to leverage the functionality of displaying the information from different objects and update them on the same page.  ? Created complex workflow rules criteria for field updates and email alerts. Sr. Salesforce Developer US Bank - Houston, TX February 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:   • Application setup activities and customize the apps according to the functional need of the project.  • Involved in migrating from classic to lightning by gathering all the required configurations and customizations as per the requirements • Developed lightning pages and displayed it on the community builder.  • Hand on experience with the new Lightning System Design which helps to quickly and easily create modern enterprise apps using lightning app builder and lightning components performed.  • Experience in modifying visualforce pages to be supported in lightning experience and a good understanding of lightning mode and its features.  • Developed and worked on different custom reports and folders for various user profiles depending on the requirement in the project.  • Designed many workflows by defining the rules, approvals and related actions which include creating related and time triggered tasks, updated to automate the process.  • Knowledge on Salesforce Marketing Cloud (Lead Pardot) for marketing automation and analytics software for email, mobile, social and online marketing.  • Created Apex Schedulers for Time Dependent Email alerts based on close Date.  • Implemented Data Loader through the Command Line Interface to run at scheduled times.  • Implemented SOQL and SOSL statements within the custom controllers, extensions and triggers properly to avoid Governor Limits.  • Worked on Data Loading Activities using salesforce.com Import Wizard, Force.com Data Loader, Informatica Cloud.  • Implemented SAML based SSO for authentication.  • Involved in working with Wave analytics cloud, and an in-depth knowledge of its features and applications.  • Deployed changes from SFDC sandbox environment to Production environment using change sets.  • Designed, developed, tested and deployed custom salesforce applications using APEX Classes, Batch APEX and APEX Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Worked with Force.com IDE to develop Custom Application in both Sales and Service Cloud Modules.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Worked on Force.com IDE for creating, modifying, testing, and deploying Force.com Applications.  Worked on data warehouse QA process and different levels of testing includes regression, functional, and integration testing with various business scenarios Salesforce Developer Fresh direct - New York, NY August 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities: ? Worked on various salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including custom objects and workflow.  ? Created Relationships, Field dependencies, page layouts, validation rules and workflow rules.  ? Migrated the data from .csv files to CRM using the data loader.  ? Communicated with different users for requirements gathering, analysis, and development.  ? Designed custom reports evaluating the performance and usage of the customer portal.  ? Implemented the Salesforce.com applications using Agile SCRUM Methodology that involves the iterative development methodology.  ? Installed and deployed Org View, a Force.com AppExchange tool that allows users to create visual org charts and update them in Salesforce CRM using drag-and-drop functionality.  ? Developed triggers, visual force pages, and controllers.  ? Configured and customized sales cloud, service cloud, Standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, Opportunity Line Items, Leads, Campaign, Events, Tasks, Cases.  ? Installed applications from sandbox to sandbox/production using ANT migration tool and change set.  ? Implemented various Custom Reports and deployed them for different business user levels.  ? Provided training to internal business users to use application and develop their own custom reports.  ? Experience in using the Workbench tool for SOQL queries, SOSL and the REST Explorer.  ? Used sandbox for testing and migrated code to deployment instance after testing.  ? Supported data migration activities for migrating data from various business centers and business users with the support of Saleforce.com. Salesforce Developer/Administrator Rackspace - Chicago, IL September 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities: ? Developed custom tabs, objects, applications, and reports.  ? Worked on validation rules, formula field and approvals for the flexibility and functionality of force platform applications ? Worked on data mapping document for integrating various systems with Salesforce.com ? Interacted with users providing end-user training and obtaining essential feedback to improve the system functionality.  ? Managed users, profiles, groups, and roles within the Salesforce CRM, this involved designating access to the applicable user within the user hierarchy.  ? Worked on Queues, groups and created assignment rules to assign leads to appropriate queues and users.  ? Created search layouts to organize fields, custom links, and other required components on record pages.  ? Designed and developed Application on Force.com Platform in Salesforce.com.  ? Involved in customizing custom objects, tabs, fields, page layout as per the business need.  ? Integrated Email with Salesforce.com for mass E-mail management and designed various custom E-mail templates.  ? Customized Applications, Page Layouts, Lookup Fields, Standard Related Lists, Tabs, and defined dependent Pick Lists.  ? Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  ? Responsible for interacting with users providing end-user training and obtaining necessary feedback to improve the system functionality.  ? Performed everyday administrative tasks for the production support issues like unlocking, modifying data and creating hoc reports.  ? Worked on reports and dashboards for sales and marketing. Salesforce Administrator/ Developer salesforce.com - Haverford, PA October 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities: ? Connected with a number of business team numbers, documented and implemented according to the requirements.  • Worked on different salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, opportunities, reports, and dashboards.  • Created master-details relationship, roll-up summary and formula field to aggregate data based on the requirements (from child records on the parent and to retrieve the field value) • Communicated with SFDC designated users to help them in their role and to provide information and training on the new features.  • Created a sandbox to backup data.  • Created Users, roles, public groups sharing groups and record level permissions to provide shared access among various users.  • Worked on the approval process of various objects, one step or two step approval process.  • Hands on experience to create, update and upsert contact record using Apex code.  • Worked on the change set to deploy component into the Salesforce production.org • Imported contacts, accounts, and data from the custom object in salesforce sign the data loader .csv file Software Developer Centrica - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to August 2011 Responsibilities: ? Developed front-end screens with HTML, CSS, JavaScript. Worked on client side validations using JavaScript and developed required Servlets.  ? Implementing the logic required for the application.  ? Worked with the File management and image libraries.  ? Provided support services for the application.  ? Participated in Code review and Quality Assurance.  ? Designed JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  ? Developed web pages with functionalities like login, register, forget password, Email, filters using JavaScript and HTML.  ? Worked with the programmers and graphic designers for project requirement and analysis. Education Bachelor's Skills Apex (6 years), CRM (3 years), CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (3 years), force.com (5 years), Loader (4 years)