Senior Tableau Developer Senior Tableau <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Tableau Developer - Cigna Fort Worth, TX An experienced Tableau Developer/Architect with experience in domains like Supply-demand, Retail, Sales / Marketing, Healthcare, Telecommunications, also worked on complex projects involving heavy BI reporting and analytics and server administration leading to useful/critical business decisions.    * 8+ years of IT experience which includes analysis, design, development, implementation, deployment and maintenance of Business Intelligence, Data Warehouse, Data mining applications and develop web based portals.  * Completed Tableau desktop 10 qualified associated Exam for Version 10.X.  * Have 8+ years of good working experience on Tableau Visualization tool and worked on various Dashboards and Visualizations.  * Extensively worked on Tableau Desktop development and visualization expert being as Sr. Tableau developer and SME  * Experience with working independently in a fast-paced environment.  * Involved in server worker node 1 and 2 installations and testing.  * Involved in Requirements gathering/analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Production rollover of Reporting and Analysis projects.  * Proficient in using Map Box and integrating with Tableau  * Experience in creating visual tooltips and collapsing views.  * Expert in creating specialized charts like Battery meter, organization or network graph, Sankey chart.  * Performed Administration tasks which Included Creating Folders, creating Users/ Group and giving Appropriate Access levels.  * Used Alteryx for data blending and preparation and to publish data sources as .tde file to Tableau Server  * Used R-Language, Python for forecasting analysis.  * Conduct optimization and performance tuning on dashboards.  * Experience in Data Warehousing designing techniques like Snowflake schemas, Star schema, fact and dimension tables, logical and physical modeling.  * Designed the Tableau dashboard workbooks and integrated these workbooks in a web application using Tableau JS API.  * Excellent knowledge of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC).  * Expertise in writing SQL Queries, Dynamic-queries, sub-queries and complex joins for generating Complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, User-defined Functions, Views and Cursors.  * Created customized reports using various chart types like text tables, bar, pie, tree maps, heat maps, line charts, pivot tables, combination charts in excel and SSRS.  * Worked extensively with Advance analysis Actions, Calculations, Parameters, Background images, Maps. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Tableau Developer Cigna - Philadelphia, PA March 2018 to Present Project: ISM    Cigna is a major service provider of medical, dental, disability, life and accidental insurance and related products services. The project provides high level details about Business's Integrates system management services. Developed more than 2 dashboards, includes, Integrated Release Management Dashboard, Component Management Dashboard, Batch Monitoring Dashboard.    Responsibilities:  * Worked thoroughly with the Business Partners to gather business requirements, understanding each capability of the requirement.  * Performed extensive GAP analysis in the project in regard to requirement and data sources  * Created data modeling for the provided capabilities and extensively worked on data profiling.  * Translated the gathered business requirement into technical and functional specification.  * Single point of contact for all kind of business requirement discussion, reviews between Business partners and offshore team.  * Created Prototypes of the Dashboard and involved in frequent conference discussions about the POC's of different visualizations and prototype layout of the dashboard with Offshore and business partners team.  * Have followed Agile process business metrics and managed 2 Projects.  * Created Gantt charts, Nested Donut pie charts, heat map, bar charts, funnel chart.  * Created Collapsible views for the chart to occupy the real-estate of the Dashboard.  * Created column selector for list view, enabling user to choose the columns to display on list view.  * Created menu driven dashboard navigation between multiple dashboards.  * Created interactive dashboard by passing values and filtering content, to enhance communication between dashboards on server.  * Twisted story boards for the views for each Domain related representations.  * Implemented Toot tip bar charts for demonstrating category of features of the Delivery channels.  * Worked on Extracts and live connections to connect o MSSQL sever  * Used Dynamic URL actions to link data from the dashboard to the external world data.  * Used Java script API to embed, created dashboard into the web page.  * Enabled 2-way communication between website content and dashboard using JavaScript API functions like applyFilterAsync() at dashboard level.  * Created custom control switching between sheets using JavaScript functions like activeSheetAsync() at workbook level and HTML coding.  * Created custom filters (i.e., icons and dates range) using JavaScript and HTML for interacting and controlling dashboard.  * Scheduled an extract refresh and also subscriptions for daily, weekly and monthly reports.  * Worked on Tableau server to created Projects, groups and users.  * Proficient in table calculations and applying complex, compound calculations to large, complex big data sets.  * Review internal team reports and further data analysis.  * Reviewed SQL queries and edited inner, left, and right joins in Tableau Desktop by connecting live/dynamic and static datasets.  * Involved in Dashboard requirement viability test and sanity test formerly deploying on Tableau server.  * Successfully delivered the dashboard on time, utilizing project management best practices.    Tech Environment: Tableau Desktop 10.x, SQL Server 2012, SQL, Excel, JavaScript API, HTML Senior Tableau Developer American Airlines - Fort Worth, TX January 2017 to February 2018 Project: CRM    An American airline is the world's largest airlines by fleet size and revenue. It operates from its main hub at Fort Worth. The goal of the project was to analyze CRM data utilizing airline offers, customer response. The project provides details about 1) summary about financials, market share & flight utilization, flight statistics, revenue per channel, and 2) analysis regarding customer response to new promotions effectiveness, acceptance, discontinuation, trend detections, seasonal forecasting and market intelligence.    Responsibilities:  * Worked closely with Project Team, SME and Internal Business Partners (IPs) to clarify business requirements and translate the requirements into technical specifications and functional specifications.  * Performed extensive GAP analysis in the project as there were numerous 'As-Is' and 'To-Be' conditions.  * Developed interactive Tableau dashboards for customer relationship management (CRM) reporting summarize and analyze data using Tableau 9.0  * Developed interactive dashboards for customer understand statistics about summary about financials, market share & flight utilization, flight statistics, revenue per channel using Quick filters.  * Created Scatter Plots, Stacked Bars for top 10 and worst 10 flights in the period using context filter.  * Developed interactive dashboards for analyze customer response to new promotions effectiveness, acceptance, discontinuation, trend detections, seasonal forecasting and market intelligence.  * Created Test Plans, Test Cases, and Test Scripts for all testing events such as User Acceptance Testing (UAT)  * Fine-tuned SQL Queries for maximum efficiency and performance.  * Created Tableau scorecards, dashboards, Heat maps etc. using Show me functionality.  * Generated Bullet charts, Heat Maps, Symbol Maps according to deliverable specifications  * Expert level capability in table calculations and applying complex, compound calculations to large, complex big data sets.  * Created dashboards that are fully interactive and enable full filtering, zooming, and drill down capabilities.  * Used trend lines for correlating different KPI's.  * Created required custom functions in the reports (Date range, Time functions, Logical functions).    * Scheduled an extract refresh and also subscriptions for daily, weekly and monthly reports.  * Restricted data for particular users using Row level security and User filters.  * Tableau dashboards were integrated into internal web portal using Java Script API.  * Scheduled data refresh on Tableau Server for weekly and monthly increments based on business change to ensure that the views and dashboards were displaying the changed data accurately.  * Testing and debugging the dashboard for quality assurance.  * As per Client Requirements, developed the reports in the form of Table, Matrix and Chart and Rendering the  * Reports in the form of PDF, EXCEL and CSV to the Clients using SSRS.  * Worked with Tablix Properties, Filters Concepts of SSRS.  * Created customized reports using various chart types like text tables, bar, pie, tree maps, heat maps, line charts, pivot tables, combination charts in excel and SSRS.  * Worked extensively with Advance analysis Actions, Calculations, Parameters, Background images, Maps.  * Served as a primary point of contact for Production Support issue resolution.  * Provided detailed documentation on the Analytical deliverables  * Used Industry standard design templates for CRM use case analysis.    Tech Environment: Tableau 9.3, 10.1 Desktop, Tableau server, SQL Server 2008R2, SQL, Java Script API, SQL BI Suite (SSRS) Senior Tableau Developer Project Epsilon - Irving, TX September 2015 to December 2016 Metrics Dashboard    Epsilon is the global leader in creating connections between people and brands. An all-encompassing global marketing company, harness the power of rich data, groundbreaking technologies, engaging creative and transformative ideas to get the results our clients requires. Used tableau as the reporting and dashboard tool to provide a clear overview to the top global brands and identify their customers.    Responsibilities:  * Extensive experience in reviewing business requirements and analyzing data sources form Excel/Oracle SQL Server for design, development, testing, and production rollover of reporting and analysis projects within Tableau Desktop.  * Created views in Tableau Desktop that were published to internal team for review and further data analysis and customization using filters and actions.  * Created Heat Map showing current service subscribers by color that were broken into regions allowing business user to understand where we have most users vs. least users.  * Gone through requirement specification of the client and Verified output as per test cases provided by the client.  * Projected and forecasted future growth by developing reports to show in detail.  * Converted charts into Crosstabs for further underlying data analysis in MS Excel.  * Created Bullet graphs to determine profit generation by using measures and dimensions data from Oracle SQL Server and MS Excel.  * Blended data from multiple databases into one report by selecting primary keys from each database for data  * validation.  * Combined views and reports into interactive dashboards in Tableau Desktop that were presented to Business  * Users, Program Managers, and End Users.  * Reviewed basic SQL queries and edited inner, left, and right joins in Tableau Desktop by connecting live/dynamic and static datasets.  * Developed story telling dashboards in Tableau Desktop and published them on to Tableau Server which allowed end users to understand the data on the fly with the usage of quick filters for on demand needed information.    * Restricted data for particular users using Row level security and User filters.  * Scheduled data refresh on Tableau Server for weekly and monthly increments based on business change to ensure that the views and dashboards were displaying the changed data accurately.  * Tested dashboards to ensure data was matching as per the business requirements and if there were any changes in underlying data.  * Collaborate with development team on data approach for coding, understand data guidelines, and understand data sources available, what is new based on requirements, and how the project will impact common data stores  * Participated in meetings, reviews, and user group discussions as well as communicating with marketing and business groups.  * Provided 24/7-production support for Tableau users.    Tech Environment: Tableau Desktop 9.x, SQL Server 2008R2, SQL Tableau Developer Voya Financial - Hartford, CT July 2014 to August 2015 Project: Mobile Banking Tableau Report Developer KTPL, IND - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to June 2014 Project:-KIROLSKAR    KTPL represents known global manufacturers of high-tech medical devices in India, offering a multi-disciplinary product portfolio catering to the fields of Radiation Oncology, Nuclear Medicine, Interventional Radiology, Gynecology, Neurosurgery, Interventional Cardiology, Imaging and Diagnostics. KTPL is fulfilling the needs of Indian health sector by equipping the hospitals with latest high-tech medical equipment.    Responsibilities:  * Identifying issue's and fixes for the reports as requested by users.  * Developed Tableau Dashboards for Visualization Solutions..  * Developing data model to create reports and dashboards..  * Worked on Individual Axis, Blended Axis and Dual Axis concept while working with reports.  * Created Work sheet by using calculations and aggregations.  * Created parameters using customized calculations.  * Created reports using conditional formatting.  * Created Filters, Groups, Sets on Tableau Reports.  * Worked with Live and Extract connection.  * Publishing sheets and dashboards on server Using Tableau Desktop.  * Created Cascading reports in Dashboard.  * Created Tableau work sheets by connecting TDE.  * Experienced with creation of Users, Groups, Projects, Workbooks and the appropriate permission sets for  * Tableau Server logons and security checks.  * Experienced in creating dashboards and various chart views in tableau.  * Experienced in creating Filters, quick filters, table calculations, calculated measures and parameters.  * Created Users, Groups and Set Permissions on Server.  * Formatted the Reports as per the Client requirement.    Tech Environment: Tableau Desktop, Tableau Server, Oracle, Windows NT, SQL, MYSQL, Debug, Tableau Report, Data modeling. Tech Environment Voya Financial - New York, NY April 2014 to April 2014 is an American financial, retirement, investment and insurance company based in New York, New York. Voya began as ING U.S., the United States operating subsidiary of ING Group, which was spun off in 2013 and established independent financial backing through an initial public offering. In April 2014, the company rebranded itself as Voya Financial. Voya's predecessors had first entered the U.S. market in the 1970s.    Responsibilities:  * Performed extensive GAP analysis in the project as there were numerous 'As-Is' and 'To-Be' conditions.  * Used Actions extensively to link and filter sheets for easier navigation in Dashboards  * Interacted with business users to gather requirements and provided guidance for the Data Warehouse team in how to structure data for optimal use in Tableau.  * Actively involved in testing new/upgraded features like new Visualizations, Forecasting, Data Blending, Parallelized Dashboard, Hyperlink Objects, Color-coded tabs etc. in Tableau Desktop  * Create visually compelling and actionable interactive worksheets and dashboards.  * Involved in end to end implementation and enhancements on Mobile Banking App data starting from requirement gathering and dashboards development in Tableau  * Created numerous dashboards in Tableau Desktop based on the data collected from Mobile Banking App by importing and blending data from MS Excel and CSV files along with MS SQL Server Databases.  * Different chart objects like Bar Chart, Line Chart, Text Tables, Tree Maps and Scatter Plot.  * Created Bullet graphs to determine profit generation by using measures and dimensions data from SQL Server and MS Excel.  * Developed story telling dashboards in Tableau Desktop and published them on to Tableau Server which allowed end users to understand the data on the fly with the usage of quick filters for on demand needed information.  * Tested dashboards to ensure data was matching as per the business requirements and if there were any changes in underlying data.  * Involvement in end-to-end activity of dashboard development from requirements gathering to deployment phase.  * Provided 24/7-production support for Tableau users.    Tech Environment: Tableau Desktop 8.1, Tableau Server, SQL Server, MS Excel. Software Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  * Design, code, test, debug, and document complex database programs to ensure that data processing production systems meet user needs.  * Interact with internal clients to understand requirements, explain issues and prioritize work.  * Developed internal portals for recruiting fresher's and knowledge assessments using Java Script, HTML and SQL  * Worked closely with end users in designing and creating the Data warehouse  * Enhance existing programs.  * Created Queries in Oracle SQL, Stored Procedures, and views to store the data of clients, advisors.  * Created User Defined Functions, Triggers to store data into appropriate tables as and when data arrives and created indexes to the tables that have least updating to improve the query performance.  * Wrote complex SQL queries using joins, sub queries and correlated sub queries to retrieve data from the database.  * Performed tuning and optimization of queries for reports that takes longer execution time using MySQL.    Tech Environment: MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server 2005 Enterprise Edition, CSS, Java Script, Java, HTML, SQL. Education Bachelor's Skills Tableau 9.3, 10.1 Desktop, Tableau server, SQL Server 2008R2, SQL, Java Script API, SQL BI Suite (SSRS) (8 years)