Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer O'Fallon, IL To obtain a full-time position with a strong and expanding organization that utilizes my skills and knowledge in the Computer Science industries. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer NetEffects / Securboration - O'Fallon, IL February 2016 to Present • Support and development of applications for USTRANSCOM.  • Convert legacy applications from Perl to Sencha and Java with Oracle database.  • Create and implement Java web services using Eclipse IDE.  • Write test steps, help identify bugs with existing and new software, and maintain bug tracking software.    Major Accomplishments  • Created Web API tool written in Sencha and Java used by software developers and functionals.  • Assisted in upgrading software to a new version of Javascript framework. Developer Highland Supply Corporation - Highland, IL August 2012 to September 2015 • Developed and implemented new software written in C#, VB.NET and Visual Studio that is  used by internal clients across the enterprise which includes the company headquarters  and production facilities across the country.  • Provided both C# and VB.NET development in support of existing software.  • Overseen new Programmers/ Developers which includes overseeing the onboarding  process and assigning development projects.  • Provided database administration and development for both Microsoft SQL Server and  Oracle databases. Performed database administration skills including database  optimization, performance tuning and space allocation.    Major Accomplishments  • Led the development team in creation and implementation of Production Scheduling  Software which was written in C# and Visual Studio and connects to a Microsoft SQL  Server Database.  • Worked collaboratively with Supply Chain Team to automate various seasonal planning and shipping processes which resulted in large labor savings.  • Led the development team in creation and implementation of a pallet packing  application written in C# and Visual Studio and connects to a Microsoft SQL Server  database. Interacted directly with the company president to understand production  processes and create design specification for this application that assists the shipping  department with stacking and covering pallets laden with products.  • Assisted with the company’s migration from the Oracle platform to Microsoft SQL  Server. Entry Level Programmer / Developer Highland Supply Corporation - Highland, IL August 2011 to August 2012 • Assisted with the development and implementation of new software written in C#,  VB.NET and Visual Studio to satisfy need of internal end-users across the enterprise.  • Developed reusable code and components.  • Provided support, assistance and training to users  • Communicated with all levels of the organization including Senior Management to  understand departmental processes and translate those into the functional application  requirements and specifications.  • Created various reports to enable users’ accessibility to required data.    Major Accomplishments  • Completed major improvements to inventory tracking capabilities for the Inventory  Management Software application written in C# and Visual Studio and connected to a  Microsoft SQL Server database.  • Supported and maintained Freight Rating/Routing System written in C# and Visual  Studio and connected to a Microsoft SQL Server database. Solely developed this  application that provides the shipping team with a list of shipping companies, services  and pricing.  • Developed new and interactive software user guides to better assist users. Information Systems Assistant SIUE - Edwardsville, IL August 2010 to May 2011 • Provided support for School of Pharmacy faculty/staff/students.  • Assisted students with PC and hardware problems.  • Kept computers and printers in working order.  • Reported unresolved problems for escalation.    Major Accomplishments  • Transitioned all student laptops from Windows XP to Windows 7.  • Drove maintenance of software and manual record keeping. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Southern Illinois University Edwardsville - Edwardsville, IL 2011 Minor in Math Southern Illinois University-Edwardsville - Edwardsville, IL 2011 Skills Javascript Additional Information Computer Science Skills  • Database Administration: SQL Server, Oracle, MS Access, MySQL  • Software Development: C#, C++, Java, Perl, Visual Basic, Ruby, Python, Haskell, Crystal Reports  • Networking: TCP/IP protocols, Win Server, Novell, Novell GroupWise, Tru64Unix, Linux, PF Sense/Clear OS, Oracle Virtual Box  • Web Design: Sencha, PHP, CSS languages, XML, HTML    Personal Skills  • Ability to learn quickly and adapt as needed to change  • Exceptional ability to understand and work through complex problems  • Excellent organizational, time management, and multi-tasking skills