SQL and BI Developer SQL and BI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer / DOT Net Developer Garland, TX • Over 8 years of industry experience as .Net Developer.  • An in-depth knowledge of C#, Java, Python, JavaScript, PHP and SQL.  • Advanced knowledge and experience of T-SQL databases, tables, stored procedures, triggers, views, user defined data types, and functions.  • An extensive experience and proficiency in the design and implementation of Microsoft business intelligence tools, ETL process, and data cleansing processes.  • Proficient in query tuning and optimization.  • An exceptional mathematical and analytical skill. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL and BI Developer Fay Servicing - Carrollton, TX December 2018 to Present • Utilized T-SQL to pull mortgage loan data from multiple databases into a BI server for use in user interfaces and SSRS reports.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing of SSIS packages to populate data from multiple sources.  • Created ad-hoc reports which involve multiple cascading parameters, sub-reports, and drill-down and drill-through utilities using SSRS.  • Worked on SSIS script task, look up transformations, and data flow tasks using T-SQL and C# scripts. Database Developer and Programmer Digital Matrix Systems - Addison, TX December 2017 to December 2018 • Lead SQL developer for OLTP database projects in banking industry to store consumer banking product information and interfaces with banks, third party analytics vendors, and credit bureaus.  • Enhanced data extract process to improve stability and increase data throughput.  • Worked on stored procedure tuning and query plan analysis for database optimization.  • Created database objects (schemas, tables, views, stored procedures, functions, and datatypes) to support new line of business UI features.  • Developed CRL functions and stored procedures for use in T-SQL Programming using C#. Software Engineer/ Developer GXT Telecom LTD - Richardson, TX May 2014 to December 2017 • Utilized .NET framework, Auto-LISP, advanced knowledge of linear algebra and matrices to create AutoCAD plug-ins and custom commands for use in telecom OSP Engineering and improved productivity and revenue significantly.  • Created web applications to process geographical data such as location, elevation and utility lines location information from existing drawings, utility plats, google earth KML files, ArcGIS topographic maps and Engineers’ field notes.  • Utilized JavaScript and “ArcGIS APIs for JavaScript” to embed geographic information system (GIS) components in web applications for use in designing telecom fiber optic cable lines.  • Designed and implemented .NET applications for handling engineering field notes.  • Developed user interfaces and web applications through use of JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS and other browser-based technologies. Education Certificate in Visual Studio El Centro College - Dallas, TX December 2016 to January 2018 AS in Software Engineering Richland College - Dallas, TX January 2016 to December 2017 Bachelor of Science in Architecture Addis Ababa University - Addis Ababa, ET September 2000 to July 2005 Skills ETL, Tableau, BI, Business Intelligence, Ssis, Data Warehouse, c# (8 years), T-Sql (8 years), Java (8 years), Python (2 years), PHP, ASP, MySQL, Javascript, Teaching Experience