Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Solutions Enterprise Private Ltd • Analytical software developer with more than 7.5 years of experience in developing web and desktop applications.  • Knowledge of OOPS methodologies, Design patterns and Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC).  • Extensive experience in SQL Server database design, developing T-SQL queries, stored procedures and triggers using SQL Server 2008 R2.  • Expertise in ASP.NET MVC 3.5/4.0, VB.Net 2.0, AJAX, LINQ, ADO.NET, jQuery, JavaScript and CSS.  • Experience in reports development using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) with Report Builder 2.0 as well as with Crystal Report.  • Possess knowledge of jQuery Mobiles and Angular JS.  • Worked for an off shore, UK based client and also visited to UK to get acquainted with projects.  • Awarded as "Star of the Month" and "Team of the Quarter ". Work Experience Senior Software Developer Solutions Enterprise Private Ltd September 2012 to Present Project Stock Management and Billing Application  Description  An online application that allows you to manage stock and create financial bills. It contains stages where the bills are verified and finally approved to send to customer/supplier. It also provide client specific reports.    Roles & Responsibility  Gather requirements, managing a team of developers, assigned tasks, set design review meetings, and ensured team members understanding of requirements and proposed design. Application host and deployment    Language & Technology ASP.NET MVC 4.0, C#, LINQ, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, CSS, Crystal report  Database SQL Server 2008 R2    Project Travel Insurance Websites (B2B & B2C)  Client UK based Travel Insurance Firm  Description  An MVC based traditional and fast travel insurance website that can be accessed by direct customer and agents, which allows instantly quoting and re-referencing the quotation. It provides integrated medical screening service wherein user can declare medical condition, pay online and get covered for medical condition.    Roles & Responsibility Develop and manage the application, communicate with client and co-ordinate with the team, host and deploy application  Language & Technology ASP.NET MVC 4.0, C#, Repository Pattern, LINQ, jQuery widgets, jQuery templates, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, CSS  Integrated Google Analytics, Feefo  Database SQL Server 2008 R2    Project Medical Screening Website  Client UK based Travel Insurance Firm  Description  A standalone screening website that allows customers to declare medical conditions on the site and get covered for medical expenses and cancellation. Some medical conditions can be covered without the need for further medical screening.    Roles & Responsibility Develop and manage the application, co-ordinate with the team, deploy the application  Language & Technology ASP.NET 3.5, C#, Repository Pattern, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS  Database SQL Server 2008 R2    Project Rates Management (Desktop Application)  Client UK based Travel Insurance Firm  Description Manage the rates of insurance policy that are sold on direct sites and comparison site.  Roles & Responsibility Enhance and manage the desktop application, co-ordinate with the lead, deploy the application  Language & Technology ASP.NET 3.5, C#, Repository Pattern, Infragistic Controls  Database SQL Server 2008 R2    Project Medical Screening (Desktop Application)  Client UK based Insurance Firm  Description  A desktop application that allows customer service and agents to declare medical conditions and provide medical premium to customer. Customer can later decide and pay premium for medical conditions declared and get covered without the need for further medical screening.    Roles & Responsibility Develop and manage the application, co-ordinate with the team.  Language & Technology Prism, WPF, MVVM, C#  Database SQL Server 2008 R2    Project Data Management Tracking Tool  Client Pharmaceutical Firm  Roles & Responsibility  1) Gather requirement, design, and handle team of developers 2) Project management and tasks allocation 3) Host and deploy the application    Language & Technology ASP.NET MVC 3.0, C#, Entity Framework, LINQ, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, CSS  Database SQL Server 2008 R2 Team member- Software Development United Healthcare Private India Ltd August 2011 to June 2012 Roles & Responsibility  • Provided object-oriented analysis/design, coding and testing of company's proprietary .Net software to provide end to end processing in Healthcare domain.  • Worked on SOAP web service for extracting data.  • Communicate and provide assistance to client.  • Customizing and creating client specific crystal reports.  • Exceeded issue-resolution targets and achieved exemplary customer satisfaction scores, consistently. Software Engineer Onward eServices Ltd June 2010 to August 2011 Roles & Responsibility    • Developed and maintained admin and banking applications.  • Creating innovative crystal report for Export modules.  • Coordinating with clients for the technical and functional issues. Education B.Tech in Electronics & Communication Usha Mittal Institute of Technology, SNDT UNIVERSITY - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN Diploma in Electronics Premilal Vitthaldas Polytechnic, SNDT University - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN Diploma in Advanced Real time Embedded systems ? Percent IIT - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN Additional Information Technical Skills    Language and Technologies: ASP.Net MVC, C# 3.5/4.0, VB.Net 2.0/3.5, ADO.NET, AJAX, JSON, Web Services, Entity Framework, LINQ, jQuery, JavaScript and CSS 3    Other Skills: XML, WPF MVVM and C++  IDE: Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/2012/2013/2015, Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0  Version Control: Team Foundation Server, Tortoise SVN, Microsoft Visual Source Safe (VSS)  Tools: Infragistic Controls, Telerik Controls, Crystal Report, MS Report builder, Orca and MDBUS  Databases: MS SQL, MySQL, Microsoft Access and Oracle  Software: MS Office and MS Visio  OS: Windows XP & Windows Server 2003 and Linux    Personality Traits    • Having strong analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills.  • Ability to communicate effectively.  • Ability to estimate time and deadlines as well as manage tasks.