Sr. .Net Developer Sr. .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. .Net Developer - Bank of New Hampshire • Over 7 years of experience in full life cycle development involving analysis, design, development, testing, deployment, implementation & maintenance of large enterprise applications in Web-based environment, Distributed n-tier architecture and Client/Server architecture using Microsoft Technologies.  • Experience in each phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), concept to full implementation, and software design life cycle management implementation with Agile Methodologies.  • Experience in Microsoft Technologies like C#.NET, ASP.NET 2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, ASP.NET MVC 3/4, ADO.NET, VB.NET, AJAX, WCF (REST), Web Services (SOAP), WPF, Entity Framework 4/4.1/5, LINQ and IIS.  • Expert in developing and enhancing applications using Microsoft .Net Framework 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0, Microsoft Visual Studio 2005/08/10/12 and Object Oriented Programming Concepts.  • Solid knowledge and experience with Web Forms, LINQ, CSS, AJAX, IIS, JavaScript, UI design and development, consuming and manipulating data using ADO. NET.  • Proficient with WCF, Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and UDDI.  • Extensive experience with process modeling using UML, Flow charts, Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams and Use cases by using tools like MS Visio and Rational Rose.  • Experience in web development using HTML, XHTML, DHTML, XML, XSD, X-Path and XSLT.  • Expertise in Design and Development of User Interfaces, User Controls and Custom Controls using ASP.NET and C#.  • Good Knowledge of SOA, ORM, IOC, Dependency Injection & N-Tier Architecture.  • Strong working knowledge in development and usage of WCF.  • Hands on experience in reports development using SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS) and Crystal Reports and experience in developing integration packages using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS)  • Hands on experience in creating content driven and user-friendly application using WPF and Silverlight.  • Good Experience in database development in creating complex database Queries, Views, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Cursors and Triggers.  • Good understanding of designing Business Models using UML (Class, ER, Use Cases, Scenarios, Sequence diagrams, Flow Charts etc.) with the help of MS Visio 2010.  • Good work experience in MS SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 and Oracle 11g/10g/9i. Knowledge in developing stored procedures functions and triggers using T-SQL and PL/SQL.  • Experience in testing tools like N-Unit, Microsoft Testing Tools.  • Solid experience in DB design (SQL DDL & DML), procedural programming (stored procedures, triggers), T SQL, Sql Server Performance Tuning, improvement, storage, index and configuration.  • Work experience in code version maintenance/tracking using Microsoft Visual Source Safe (VSS) and Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Familiar with various coding standards and experienced in developing under CMMI Level 5 procedures.  • Experienced in methodologies like Agile, Waterfall and Scrum.  • Proven ability to analyze problems, roots cause, and develop innovative solutions to business challenges and streamlining operations. Work Experience Sr. .Net Developer Bank of New Hampshire - Whitefield, NH June 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Interacted with clients for requirements, discussed the feasibility of requirements, designing the layout of web pages, participating in the development and Key technical analyst role in the inception, elaboration and construction phases.  • Developed User Controls, used .NET web controls and improved the performance of the application by configuring the caching.  • Designed and Developed the Front End Screens and validating the controls while inputting the required information.  • Designed and developed rich UI Screens with HTML, CSS and Microsoft SilverLight.  • Created login-based members area that displays ASP.NET pages based on access levels and assigned Roles.  • Created WCF service that performs a search on various entities as well as consumed the web services in the application.  • Implemented Client side and server-side validations done using JavaScript and Validation Controls.  • Used UML to create the flow diagrams and represent interactions in the system.  • Utilized VB.NET, ASP.NET and created web forms, user controls, web services.  • Used Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) for multiple services to interact with the application for the clients.  • Developed the application using MVC frame work, Bootstrap, MVVM and WCF.  • Used Service based architecture with ASP NET MVC (Dot Net MVC HTML 5, JQuery, Ajax), Web Services (WCF) and Entity Frame work for DB connectivity.  • Implemented user level security, extracted technical specifications from the database server using ADO.net and SQL Server stored procedures.  • Effectively designed application windows using XAML using various WPF controls like DataGrid, Combobox, Textbox, etc.  • Used LINQ for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation interface screens developed using ASP.Net.  • Designed screens, which were easy to navigate and provide a quick and complete picture of the data needed to research a claim or update information.  • Designed and created web controls to attain uniform look and feel for the application front-end.  • Extensively used datasets, Data table and Data view to retrieve and manipulate data and display it in an ASP.NET page.  • Implemented Share Point 2010 for document management, collaboration and automation of business processes using workflow.  • Used ADO.NET (Data Adapters, Data Sets) for database connectivity to SQL Server database.  • Involved in preparing Use case, Sequential and Class diagrams using Visio for ASP.NET modules.  • Performed Unit & Integration testing and involved in Bug Fixing.  • Involved in database design, creation and fine tuning of database objects.  • Created a number of SQL Reports in large database with Design, Develop, and Build and publish the reports using Microsoft SQL Reporting Services 2008.  • Implemented Role based security to comply with the rules set by the business layer of the application.  • Generated logs by invoking events for error recording and security.  • Interacted with SQL Server 2008 R2 for acquiring and manipulating data using an intermediate web service implemented using WCF.    Environment: ASP.NET, .NET Framework 4.5, SilverLight, WCF, WPF, XAML, MVC, XML, LINQ, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Xml- Schema, SQL Server 2008R2, Windows Server 2008. Sr. .Net Developer UHG - Hooksett, NH April 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the software using agile development practice.  • Involved in Design, Development of Web Forms using ASP.NET, JQuery, XML, dataset and .NET Framework.  • Developed n-tier web applications in .NET environment using .NET, ASP.NET, Web services, Console Applications, Webforms, winforms, Silverlight, VB.NET 2005 /2008/2010, IIS5.0/6.0, MySQL, SQL Server 2008.  • Involved in designing of WPF screens and implementing MVC design pattern.  • Developed business logic for MVC application to interact with ASP application cookies. Net Developer Merck - Manchester, NH October 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development cycle including high-level design, data design, coding, testing, and creation of functional documentation.  • Created Windows, User Controls, Web Forms and HTML Pages for various banking services & modules.  • Involved in creation of new WPF Browser Applications and maintenance of old ASP.NET modules.  • Applied Master Pages, Themes, and CSS for a consistent look and feel for Page design.  • Extensively used AJAX for creating better responsive banking application.  • Created Site Map to implement Navigation Path and Page Access Control according to Users' Membership and Identities  • Implemented Banking Security Features using forms Authentication and Authorization and role based functionality.  • Created a numerous Class and Interface to implement Business Logic and Data Manipulation.  • Extensively worked on Consuming, Calling, Transmitting and Processing Web Services and WCF services.  • Used SMTP mail class of .NET for users to send mail with suggestions, receive any alerts from the bank, receive confirmation notifications etc.  • Used (and created with XPath) the XSLT for the file transform in the work flow.  • Implemented the Logging and Application error handling using the MSDN libraries like Event viewer and Log file.  • Used XSLT for XML data transformation in the application and Schema to check the validity of XML Document at various stages.  • Heavily used ADO.NET objects, DataSet, Data Table and Data Adapter for manipulating, retrieving, storing and displaying data from SQL Server.  • Extensively worked on SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers using T-SQL in SQL Server.  • Responsible for debugging, tracing, deployment, installation and Maintaining work.  • Involved in High level design of the project using ADO.net that accessed the data in tables and procedures created during the SQL Server Project (using SQL Server as the backend). Connection string was made used to establish connection with the backend.  • Created a Data Source which contains all the tables required in the project. Made use of Datasets, Data Adapters supporting disconnected mode.    Environment: WCF, Visual Studio 2008, .NET Framework, ASP.NET, Ajax, CSS, HTML, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, MVC, ADO.NET, Data Entity Model, Developer Express Tools, TFS, IIS, Visio, SQL Server 2008, LINQ to Objects. Net Developer Lane Bryant - Nashua, NH November 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development cycle including high-level design, data design, coding, testing, and creation of functional documentation.  • Created design documents, which include Use Cases, Process Flow Diagrams using MS Visio.  • Worked on presentation, business and data access layer.  • Designed and developed Web Forms using ASP.NET and created necessary classes in the business components.  • Used AJAX Tool kit controls extensively to enrich the GUI and usability.  • Widely used JavaScript for Client Side Validation.  • Involved in the designing the HTML and developing CSS, Skins for the site.  • Involved in designing the Configuration XML for the site.  • Identified the appropriate site structure and taxonomy to include site collections, top-level sites, child sites, and libraries.  • Custom Workflow using .Net WWF (Windows Workflow Foundation) to automated business process with InfoPath Forms.  • Implemented Microsoft Enterprise Library Blocks like Data Access, Exception Handling, and Logging.  • Made Order report, Inquiry report, check out report in Crystal report.  • Developed large number of stored procedures for database operations using T-SQL.    Environment: ASP.NET, WCF, Windows Workflow, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, SQL Server 2008, Visual Studio 2008, IIS, Windows Server 2003. Net Developer AT&T - Somersworth, NH August 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed User Interface using ASP.Net web forms.  • Retrieved and stored data using ADO.Net and SQL stored procedures.  • Implemented live stock quote pricing using web services (webservicex.net)  • Developed site map feature from XML Data source used for Menu using XMLDOM and ADO.Net concepts.  • Have used JavaScript, jQuery.  • Used WYSIWYG Rich text editor for dynamic web page creation.  • Using ADO.net Database layer class for each module was created and variables, properties and methods for calling stored procedure were created for executing command objects for each module.  • Developed several user controls for reusability in several Web-Forms.  • Extensively used GridView with sorting and paging  • Customized and integrated database driven content for the web pages for the portal.  • Developed features for subscribing and sending newsletters.  • Debugged, corrected and resolved all errors identified by client's quality team.    Environment: ASP.Net, ADO.Net, JavaScript, Web Services, XML, SQL Server, SQL and Windows. Software Developer Liberty Mitual - Portsmouth, NH June 2008 to July 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed new user interface for new features and functionality to the application using ASP.NET.  • Used the Unified Modeling Language (UML) for Business Layer.  • Responsible in implementing validation using ASP.NET validation controls and JavaScript.  • Used Microsoft SQL Server 2000 on Microsoft Windows 2000 Advanced Server and exist in the Active Directory structure.  • Developed reports using SQL Reporting services.  • Developed data driven web pages using ASP.NET and ADO.NET.  • Created public DLLs to implement business logic and to integrate the application.  • Utilized database components (Data Adapter and Data set) to access database using ADO.NET.  • Created tables, views, indexes and relations using SQL Enterprise Manager.  • Prepared and executed unit test plans for every module and Code analysis for doing a quality check on the code during and after the development of the project. Followed all the coding standards during the project and displayed appropriate error messages wherever required.    Environment: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, HTML, JavaScript, IIS 5.0, SQL Server 2005, Visio, Visual Studio