Web UI Developer Web UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web UI Developer - Macy's • 5 years of strong experience in designing and developing User Interface (UI) applications as a Frontend Developer.  • Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front-end technologies like HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular.js/2, Node.js, React.js.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server-side scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery and Angular.js.  • Experience in applying the latest development approaches including MVC, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, XML and Responsive Web Design.  • Extensive experience on implementing the AJAX features using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries (JQuery)  • Experience in developing Web-centric applications using XML, Angular.js1.4, React.js 0.13, Node.js, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS3.  • Experience of working on CSS Pre-processors like LESS and SASS.  • Very good experience in Document Object Model (DOM).  • Experience in working with Angular 2.0 with extensive knowledge on the latest ECMA6 features and Best Practices  • Good knowledge on creating services with Angular 2 @injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components.  • Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using JQuery, HTML5, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sties.  • Professional in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of Future Pages.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in node.js, angular.js, Ext.js, Responsive design.  • Strong knowledge in cross browser compatibility issues and W3C standards. Good Knowledge in integrating back-end applications with AJAX driven web 2.0 front-end using JavaScript framework. Work Experience Web UI Developer Macy's - San Francisco, CA December 2018 to Present Project: Macy's Shopping Portal  This is mainly a Macy's online shopping application where you can shop clothes, appliances, etc.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI layout and front-end programming for web application that matches the wireframes using the latest HTML5, CSS3 and React JS.  • Implemented Drag and Drop functionalities between different grids.  • Implemented Drag and Drop functionalities between from one window to other windows and between different grids.  • Implemented error handling and strictly typed coding practices.  • Responsible for the re-design of existing application and maintenance of New Platform.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Used components such as React Router, axios, Redux form, React Material UI, Components, Forms, Events, Keys.  • Worked on React JS Virtual DOM and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Responsible for developing a front-end application using React.js and Redux architecture for internal team's productivity use.  • Build custom validations before submitting it to backend using Redux Form.  • Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, J-Query, DHTML, Web Service call and JSON.  • Implemented responsive design for different size of devices by using Bootstrap Grid System.  • Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Primarily using React JS, MONGODB and Npm packages to integrate new functionality and maintain previous code.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers.  • Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using Twitter Bootstrap model and tested Ajax calls using REST clients like Postman.  Coded to implement AJAX based application by fetching the response from backend REST API as a part of JSON  Environment: ReactJS, Node.js, Redux, JavaScript, ES6/ES5, Chai, GIT, Jenkins CI/CD tools. UI Developer Allstate Insurance - Irving, TX August 2018 to December 2018 Project: Digital Safety Mobile Application  Allstate insurance as a insurance company not only provides insurance but also plays a big part in technology. With an objective to secure customers sensitive information planned to work on building an iOS application which not only gives customers information about the sensitive information that have been compromised but also a way to secure it. In this process I played a major role of building the backend of application.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Web designing & development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS and Ajax.  • Working as part of a team developing applications and services using Agile development methods.  • Building a customer-facing UI in ReactJS with Redux.  • Refined JavaScript code with addition of Type Script.  • Developing micro service-based+ application using NodeJS with the support of AWS lambda.  • Built backend RESTful APIs using Node.js, and NoSQL databases with DynamoDB.  • Testing code with Mockery, Mocha, Chai, and Chai-Promise.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Redux for SPA development.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.    Environment: ReactJS, Node.js, Redux, JavaScript, ES6/ES5, Typescript, jQuery, AWS lambda, Mockery, Mocha, Chai, GIT, Jenkins CI/CD tools. Frontend Developer Deutsche Bank - New York, NY February 2017 to July 2018 Project: Credit Risk Management System  Deutsche Bank is one of the top financial institutions in the world. It operates through three primary divisions: Corporate and Investment Bank, Private Clients and Asset Management.  Credit Risk Management (CRM) is the independent credit approval and monitoring function for the whole of Deutsche Bank.  The CRM project was to develop and deliver web platform used across the credit risk domain in order to analyze data and implement corrective measures for the Credit Risk management unit. The credit analyst could view and manage the whole credit risk process includes loan review, due diligence, credit culture development & consulting in this application. I focused on loan review section which is using a proprietary model enables the credit analyst to assess customers data to identify key risk pockets and pinpoint optimal loan samples with precision. This section includes 3 modules: Sampling, Data Collection & Analysis, and Collaboration& Consultation.    Responsibilities:  • Worked as Frontend UI Developer by creating Dynamic, Responsive web pages, browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Typescript, jQuery and Angular 2.  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular 2 Typescript module, components, views, router and Angular 2 APIs like (Ng Module, Forms Module, Http Module, Browser Module, Text Mask Module)  • Used Angular 2's HTTP Client to Interact with Servers/backend and modularized the Application with Ng-Module.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using modular based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Used Angular 4 Reactive forms to implement complex forms and performed the validations using Form Builder.  • Excellent knowledge in the development of User Experience web and mobile based applications.  • Hands-on experience using one-way/two-way data binding, filters, UI-routers and creating custom directives in Angular 2.  • Optimized the performance of application using Angular 4 Lazy Loading and Ahead of Time Compilation    Environment: Angular 2, Angular.JS, JavaScript, ES6/ES5, Typescript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, GIT, Grunt, Gulp, NPM, Firebug, Scrum Web UI Developer Black Knight Financial - Houston, TX October 2016 to January 2017 Project: This project was to work on black knight financial investor module which manages stock information, financial information, corporate governance, press releases and events. As a web developer I was involved in recreating and designing stock chart, price look up and analyst coverage using scripting and coding.    Responsibilities:  • Developed a Single Page Application (SPA) for internal client using technologies like React.JS, Rx.JS, D3.JS, HTML5/4, CSS3/2 to provide Expected, guaranteed, and Estimated Delivery.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets using React.JS.  • Worked in using React.JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Redux concept.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React.JS.  • Used React.JS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Developed Object Oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client-side validations using jQuery functions.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React -Drawable.  • Responsible for JavaScript / AJAX UI upgrades and improvements.    Environment: React.JS, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, JSON, Ajax, jQuery, Node.JS, D3.JS, MongoDB, Karma, Jasmine, CRUD, Redux, agile, Scrum, React-Router, flux, bootstrap, SQL, Gulp, Firebug, Fiddler Software Engineer Trianz Holding Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 to July 2016 Client: - Brinks (Brinks is an American security and protection company.)  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Ajax, jQuery UI, AngularJS, MVC.  Role: Front End/Web/UI Developer  URL:-http://www.brinks.com/en/    Client: - Trinet portal (Internationale portal)  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax, JSON.  Role: Front End/Web/UI Developer  URL:-http://trinet.trianz.com/    Responsibilities: -  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Developing Web pages by using HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript and working knowledge of CSS grid system.  • Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using JavaScript.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and MySQL. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering Fairleigh Dickinson University 2018 Skills Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Git, Html, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Json, Scripting, Svn, Xml, Ajax, Css, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Tomcat, Weblogic, Websphere, Angularjs, Angular, CSS3, Node, React, HTML5, UI Links http://@injectable Additional Information Technical Skills: -  • Web Technologies HTML, HTML 5, DHTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), CSS3, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX and JSP.  • JavaScript Libraries JQuery, JQuery UI, JQuery Mobile, Angular.js/2, Backbone.js, React.js, Node.js.  • Scripting Languages Java, JavaScript.  • IDE's, HTML Editor Notepad++, MS Visual Studio 2012, Eclipse IDE, Net Beans IDE, Adobe Dreamweaver.  • Application servers WebSphere, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat  • Database ORACLE 10g/11g, MS SQL server 2008.  • Operating Systems Windows 98, 2000, XP, Windows7, Mac OS, Linux.  • Version Controls SVN, VSS, CVS, GIT and Harvest.