Dispatcher Dispatcher Miami, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Dispatcher Doctors Medical Center of Miami - Miami, FL March 2019 to Present Dispatching transportation and Vehicle Tracking and dispatching.  ·Take dispatch order and processing.  ·Daily reports of routes .  ·Answer phones to send a transportation, route calls and take messages.  ·Set up route for next day.  ·Other responsibilities and duties related Dispatcher Miami Beach Medical Group - Miami, FL February 2018 to March 2019 • Gather, organize and process driver daily paperwork, logs, manifest, vehicle inspection, route.  • Answer phones, route calls and take messages.  • Respond to delivery associate issue and provide support for resolution.  • Run daily reports for transportation supervisors, i.e. Observations, Vehicle Tracking.  • Perform all other tasks as assigned by supervision or management Stock Room Clerk AAR Corp. - Miami, FL January 2017 to January 2018 • Pick ticketing process  • Process customer orders  • Follow specific work instructions for packing materials in compliance with customer requirements  • Receive necessary amount of HAZ/MAT training hours  • Assist in warehouse operations  • Monitor missing, lost and misplaced inventory. Software Developer TRAX AERO - Miami, FL October 2015 to May 2016 • Maintenance modifying code of in Power Builder and Java fixing issues and resolving problems in the module of TraxDoc,  • Analyzed the performance and Issues of TraxDoc module and developed new functions to improve the performance generating the files of the document using Xml files .  • Prepared documents specifying the changes and tested. Systems Analyst SUNAT(National Customs and Tax Administration of Peru) - Lima, Lima May 2013 to December 2014 • Analyzed and developed requirements and resolved problems with the systems of the revenue collection and auditing process of SUNAT.  • Developed applications and Scripts in Python with UNIX operative system to optimize the revenue collection process.  • Developed complex SQL queries getting and updating data to fix some issues from the database in Informix.  • Software support and maintenance fixing issues of the web application of Revenue Collection developed in Java. Software Analyst Developer Public Ministry of Peru - Lima, Lima June 2009 to April 2013 • Member of a team project to develop an administrative support web application to the Board of Senior Prosecutors developing in java whit Spring framework, WebLogic, Sybase Database.  • Participated in the project implementation scheme Cas in the Human Resources module of SIGA(Administrative support integrated System), to optimize the process of payroll using VisualStudio.net  • Support and Maintenance of Human Resources and Logistic module of SIGA fixing issues and improving the performance of the module developed in VisualStudio.net. Software Analyst Developer Jeisa Group - Lima, Lima January 2009 to May 2009 Achievement Highlights:  · Member of project team developing the modules production and post-production of the ERP TobeFree with Visualstudio.net 2008 and SQL Server 2008.  Software Support to the developed modules of ERP fixing issues. Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering RICARDO PALMA UNIVERSITY 2008 Skills Programming: VisualStudio.net, Spring Source, Eclipse, PowerBuilder, Microsoft SQL Server, Sybase SQL Anywhere, PL/SQL (4 years), Customer Service, Dispatch, Logistics, Dispatching Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/alexander-salazar/3/317/893/en Certifications/Licenses Business Modeling and Requirements of Software with Rational Rose (IBM) Making Projects with Rational Rose (IBM) Object Oriented System Modeling with Rational Rose (IBM)