Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Maxima Consulting Inc Germantown, MD ? 8 + years of Professional experience in Software Development comprising of analysis, design, development, testing, implementation and maintenance of n-tier applications developed on Java/J2EE platform.  ? Successfully executed projects in Banking and Financial domains.  ? Excellent knowledge on requirements gathering, Performance Tuning, code reviews, test planning, build, deployment and Memory Management.  ? Proficient in writing in Business requirement documents (BRD), Functional specification document (FSD), Technical specification (Design, Testing and Installation documents).  ? Having good problem solving and analytical skills, highly motivated, quick learner.  ? Ability to work in tight schedules and efficient as well as proactive in meeting deadlines and escalating red flags.  ? Experience with Core Java / J2EE (OOPS concepts, Collections, Data structures, Algorithms, Multithreading) design, development and implementation.  ? Seasoned with Waterfall/Agile methodologies, Test-Driven Development and Scrum.  ? Front-end web-based development using JSP, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, GWT.  ? Good hands on experience with Struts, Hibernate, Spring and Web Services (REST/SOAP).  ? Worked on tools like: WebSphere MQ, Cloud, Log4J, Junit, Jasper reports, Jenkins, Putty, Winscp3, Eclipse, NetBeans, JIRA, ClearCase, SVN (Subversion), CVS, JSON, IBM WebSphere, Apache-Tomcat and Selenium etc.  ? Proficient in backend development using complex SQL queries, PL-SQL, Oracle 12c, IBM DB2, MySQL.  ? Knowledge of Mongo dB, BPML, AngularJS, ReactJS and AWS (Amazon Web Services) etc.  ? Worked on Roles based framework-Entitlement Security Framework, Password Matrix,LDAP Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Maxima Consulting Inc - Quincy, MA December 2017 to Present Project -EPW: Enterprise pricing web is a web-based pricing platform that allow users greater flexibility regarding pricing data of financial data. This includes price updates, display data, reporting and distribution through the use of another application available, with this technology it is the TDE vision for securities pricing window and utilize EPW in place of navigator.  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for the full stack development working in Agile environment.  ? Direct interaction with client for requirement, understanding business rules and deliverables.  ? Working closely with solution architect for the deliverables.  ? Perform code review using Sonar and Veracode scan and review technical design.  ? Write test cases, setup test data and execute test outline in dev.  ? Application performance analysis and implement improvements.  ? Build, deployment and production support for the monthly release.  ? Reports using CRF - Cloud Reporting Framework.  ? Used restful web services for consuming and publishing the prices from Vendor Client application.    Environment: ReactJS, GitHub Desktop, Git Repository, Eclipse, Java, J2EE, Spring Framework, spring Core, spring MVC, GWT, Rest web services, SQL server, RMXCI, Jenkins, Cloud server, RTC builds, Tandem, Execute Query, Sonar, Veracode, CRF Reports, Oracle 12c, Junit etc. State Street Corporation August 2015 to June 2017 Project -TDE EMEA Agile: As State Street is operating globally, we started developing standardized controls and processes between the various countries but their separate regulatory bodies often make this a challenging task. We achieved this end to end digitization by developing regional and country specific functionality to remove the impediments that are preventing each country moving into the future state operating model. This TDE agile development team is targeted these specific impediments and, in some cases, provide an interim model whilst the team looked to retire the multiple local tools one by one being employed around the region. This Enabled the State Street business to move towards standardizing into the Global Model, increasing the use of the trusted data source and take advantage of Straight through Processing.  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for the full stack (front end development, application logic, services, data persistence) as well as server setup and maintenance.  ? Worked as a member of an Agile Software Development Team to help implement new functionality based on business requirements.  ? Direct interaction with client for requirement, understanding business rules and deliverables.  ? Business process flow charts and system overview using Microsoft Visio.  ? Writing Functional Specification document (FSD) and working closely with solution architect for the deliverables.  ? Worked on UI development from mockups using CSS, HTML and GWT framework.    Environment: Java, J2EE, GWT, Rest web services ,Clear Case, CVS, spring Framework, Spring MVC, Oracle 11g, Design Pattern, Stored Procedures, Quartz Scheduler, Log4j, Junit, MQ, Drool, XML, Tomcat, Sonar, Win merge, cloud, Hibernate. Senior Software Engineer Wipro Technologies October 2010 to June 2017 Lead Software Developer State Street Corporation - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2013 to July 2015 Bangalore India ) (Nov 2013 - July 2015)    Project -My View: My View is a cloud-based IT transformational initiative designed to provide near real-time process monitoring information across all business areas, to help streamline their daily business activities.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Worked as Lead Software Developer.  ? Responsible for developing the full stack (from the JavaScript, Application Services, Database, and Build Scripts).  ? Performed detailed analysis, system and component design, programming, unit testing, environment management,  ? Configuration management, installation-deployments, troubleshooting and problem resolution.  ? Followed the Agile Methodologies (scrum) in development of system.  ? Created and managed application framework for the data flow between frontend and backend.  ? Worked on Jasper Reports.  ? Managed whole UI and design work along with coding, testing and delivery.  ? Involved in the Database design and developed Stored Procedures in Oracle.    Environment: Java1.8/1.7, J2EE, HTML5, JavaScript, GWT, XML, Clear Case, CVS, spring Framework, Spring MVC, Oracle 11g, Design Pattern, Stored Procedures, Quartz Scheduler, Log4j, Parser, Junit, MQ, Tomcat, Spring Boot 1.0.2, Sonar, Win merge State Street Corporation - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2012 to October 2013 Project -Global Model Office -Dashboard MQ listener will connect to MQ queue and read messages in JMS API. Upon extracting the message payload, it will create dashboard event and publish to specific table. A new dashboard job will be polling and processing new active events and invoke one of predefined actions like Roll instances for the cycle date. The step instances and status will be reflected in Dashboard Cloud UI  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Involved in understanding business requirements and impact analysis for enhancement requests and writing Stored Procedure in Oracle 9i.  ? Worked in GWT 2.5 MVP framework.  ? Development and implementation of scheduled jobs.  ? Responsible for development of automated deployment of the technical modules.  ? Responsible for handling production issues for multiple products.  ? Worked in Agile/Scrum environment.  ? Responsible for the business logic using  ? Collaborated with network team in monitoring load balancers and servers.  ? Involved in production support team in major production releases.  ? Involved in implementing Factory Method design patterns.  ? Involved in Creating and scheduling workflows.  ? Single point of contact for providing tier 3 Production Support.    Environment: Java/J2EE, GWT, Clear Case, CVS, spring Framework, Spring MVC, Oracle Exadata, Design Pattern, Stored Procedures, Quartz Scheduler, Log4j, Parser, Junit, MQ , web services. State Street Corporation - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2011 to November 2012 Bangalore India ) (Dec 2011 - Nov 2012)    Project -PMUI: Process Monitoring is a platform that provides a single, standard location to capture processing statuses, alerts, exceptions, metrics and related communications regardless of where the processing takes place. It enables business operating model alignment by simplifying the monitoring of business processes and providing efficient access to information through data transparency. It provides visibility into business processes. It allows the user to define the process steps and provides process statuses, notifications, and alerts.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for the full stack (front end development, application logic, services, data persistence) as well as server setup and maintenance.  ? The team is using an iterative/agile approach and weekly releases.  ? Serving as technical specialist during system implementation by interacting with Development, Maintenance and Operations teams.  ? Developing project documentation and involved in development plan.  ? Migrated the database from EXA data to oracle.    Environment: Java/J2EE, GWT, Clear Case, CVS, REST web services, Oracle 9i, Design Pattern, Stored Procedures, Quartz Scheduler, Log4j, Parser, JUnit. Software Developer State Street Corporation - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2010 to November 2011 IMT: The Inquiry Management Tool (IMT) is a framework, allowing users to perform inquiry functions. It is an end user solution for inquiry processing at State Street that allows users to create, submit, receive and manage inquiries received from internal and external parties and will replace existing solutions. It is intended to be the single enterprise-wide inquiry management system for State Street.  IMT is not a replacement specifically for GIMS; it is a replacement tool for all inquiry management tools at State Street. GIMS will be retired upon the completion of the IMT rollout.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Developed components on n tier service-oriented architecture web application.  ? Involved in designing, coding and testing of configuration screen.  ? Worked in GWT 2.3/2.5 MVP framework.  ? Involved in preparing review checklist and coding standards and ensuring the team follows standards and guidelines.  Environment: Java/J2EE, GWT, Clear Case, CVS, Spring, Oracle 9i, Design Pattern, Stored Procedures, Quartz Scheduler, Log4j, Parser, Junit, Jasper reports, Tomcat, Sonar, Win merge Education Master of Technology in Software in engineering BITS PILANI 2010 to 2014 Bachelor of Science in Computer science Kurukshetra University 2007 to 2010 Skills DEPLOYMENT, REQUIREMENTS ENGINEERING, PERFORMANCE TUNING, TEST PLANNING Additional Information ? Other Skills: Requirements engineering, Performance Tuning, code reviews, test planning, build & deployment.