Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Community Health Wallingford, CT Work Experience Software Developer Community Health - Wallingford, CT June 2017 to Present USA  ? Designed and developed Proxy services, Business services, and Message flows.  ? Defined business and technical requirements and evaluated vendors for the managed services.  ? Assisting project team members in defining detailed specifications for specific functionality requirements as well as analyzing, designing, encoding, and registering web services using Nomad and Consul.  ? Using HashiCorp Vault to store all the secrets.  ? Code and test integration components using programming languages, web services, and MongoDb.  ? Maintain and document SOA Suite 11g on development and test environments.  ? Developed Error Handling and Logging solutions for error and business exceptions.  ? Created an UI, making API calls to different web services built in dot net core 2.2.  ? Providing support to employees, managed UI, developing libraries as nuget packages. Computer Science Department, University of Bridgeport, CT January 2015 to May 2016 on a web based image processing project using NelderMead and SURF algorithms to evaluate and match the same pictures using an ATT library.  ? Used Haris Detection Algorithm, compared two images, detect the corners of the images and crop that.  ? Implemented a program of Menu-Driven SQL Application for Oracle, called "OraAccess". OraAccess is an Oracle database access tool like SQL*Plus to retrieve data using SQL.  ? Developed a Portable File System (PFS) with Linked Allocation Method, which performed "Allocate a file", and "Move files from the windows file system into your file." Created our own directory structure, allocation table.  ? Designed a process model and OS utility, a command Shell, using C with GCC compiler on a Debian Linux VM. This program served as a shell interface that accepts user commands and then executes each command in a separate process. Programmer Analyst Drish Infotech Ltd - Chandigarh, Chandigarh July 2012 to September 2014 Chandigarh, India  Drish Infotech Limited has been providing quality IT services and solutions to a wide range of industry segments across the globe. We leverage not only robust coding skills but problem solving and project management skills as well.  ? Using Asp.Net, designed various modules of a web based customer relational management, (CRM) application to store and manage all contact, deals and properties under one roof (www.Clientlook.com).  ? Performed workflow and performance testing to reproduce customer issues as well as application issues using VMware workstation/Player.  ? Manage customer escalations and blocking production go-live issues related to deployment and installation on application services  ? Wrote Unit and Integration tests using Microsoft Visual Studio for debugging CRM before go-live.  ? Worked with customer to troubleshoot any connectivity issues encountered while testing or post go-live.  ? Also, designed workflows for a text messaging based bidding game (http://golow.bz/)- that chooses a winner based on a lowest and unique numerical bids in a given time. Logic also keeps track of all bids and notifies a player if their bid is matched.  ? Worked on miscellaneous project like Timesheet Reporter and Training  ? Management System using Asp.Net and SQL Server. Internship Infowiz Software Solution - Chandigarh, Chandigarh January 2012 to June 2012 Chandigarh, India  ? Developed online examination system application which allows a company/Institute to arrange, conduct and manage any objective examination via online.  ? We designed UI using Asp.Net 2.0 and designed a database using Sql Server 2008.  ? Generated reports using XL reporting (Grad Reports, Registered Student). Added functionality to export reports to Excel. Internship Spic Microsoft Ltd May 2009 to August 2009 Designed a project to help co-ordinates, manage activities of team member across different location. We used Asp.Net 2.0 to build UI and Sql Server 2008 as a back end.  ? Code and Unit testing using mock library in C#.  Awards  • Awarded by Scholarship from University of Bridgeport, CT-USA. Education Master of Science in Computer Science and Engineering University of Bridgeport January 2015 to December 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering GGS College of Modern Technology June 2008 to May 2012 Skills SQL (4 years), ASP (2 years), ASP.NET (2 years), MS ASP (2 years), MS SQL SERVER (2 years), Git, MYSQL Additional Information Skills:  • Protocols/Technologies: Nomad, Consul, Vault, Saga, OOPS, Html, JavaScript, ReactJS, HTTP/HTTPS, UDP, VPN, SOAP, WSDL, DNS, TCP/IP, Web Services WPF, Team Foundation Server, Git.  • Database: Sql Server 2005/2008/2012, MongoDb, Redis.  • Languages: Asp.Net Core, C#, C++.  • Operating System Administration: Windows 2003/XP/7, 10, Linux.  • Application & Tools: Microsoft Word/Excel/PowerPoint 2010, VMWare Workstation/Player, Process Monitor, XL reporting, DU Meter, Windows Cleanup/Defrag, Windows Resource Monitor/Perform, Putty, SSH Secure Shell.