Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Boston, MA Software Engineer passionate about delivering quality solutions, improving internal processes, and developing the skills of my teammates. Fluent in .NET and Microsoft SQL. Recently focused on API development in the Microsoft stack, system design, training, project management, and learning React. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer TestOil - Strongsville, OH July 2014 to Present Individual Contributor: APIs, databases, web applications  • Designed, implemented, and supported a REST API with custom authorization using .NET Core and Entity Framework.  • Designed, implemented, and supported an ETL and reporting system in .NET 4.5 with Kendo UI controls. Managed the work of a contractor on the project.  • Migrated customer portal from ASP Classic and PHP to .Net 4 Web Forms, backed by SQL stored procedures. Learned about and implemented a layered architecture. Provided guidance to a junior developer and a contractor as they worked on the project.  • Responsible for deployments and level 2 support for all internal and external software systems.    Team Development: Training, process improvements, workshops  • Championed department-wide migration from no source control ? TFS ? BitBucket. Developed internal tutorials, presented learning sessions, trained colleagues in the new tools and practices.  • Created and presented many internal workshops on topics including coding style and architecture (SOLID principles, design patterns, code linting, etc.), and source control practices (GIT tutorials and branching strategies).  • Enrolled in online nanodegree to learn React, Redux, and React Native.    Project Management: Sprint planning, project proposals, interns and contractors  • Created statements of work, project charters, process flow maps, Gantt charts, and executive summaries to deliver projects and products on time.  • Assisted IT Director in sprint planning, time estimation, and administrating our project management tools (Jira).  • Managed the work of a summer intern to take a data export API from prototype to finished product. This included weekly check ins, scheduling, and coordinating their work within the department. .NET Developer Safeguard Properties - Brooklyn Heights, OH June 2013 to July 2014 - Design, maintain and enhance .NET applications used by contractors  - Web front-end development using jQuery/AJAX and .NET MVC  - Oracle database development, building tables and procedures  - Team of 5 developers using TFS and some agile methodologies (scrum, kanban)  - Upgrading existing architecture to deliver new features  - Service bus architecture Web Architecture Intern The J. M. Smucker Company - Orrville, OH May 2012 to May 2013 - Design, develop, and maintain consumer facing websites and web applications.  - Maintenance and development of several large public web services.  - Maintain product, recipe, and consumer data and databases.  - Develop social media integration with websites.  - 40+ websites and 750+ domain names including smuckers.com, pillsburybaking.com, crisco.com, folgers.com, etc.  - Implemented solutions instrumental in saving the company nearly $500k within six months of work. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Akron Main Campus - Akron, OH September 2009 to May 2013 Skills Javascript, Git, .NET, C# Links https://stackoverflow.com/users/1463649/zach-johnston https://github.com/zachjohnston