Sr. Full Stack Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Developer - Halvik Corp Ashburn, VA Eight plus years of vast experience in JAVA/J2EE technologies, with expertise in Leading a development team, Application Software Design, Object Oriented Design, Development, Documentation, debugging and Implementation.    Worked as a Technical Lead for a team of 11 Senior developers for 3 years.    • Eight plus years of IT experience in design and development of various Application Systems using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Design (OOD).  • Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, web and client-server environments including Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (J2EE), Java Beans, Web Services.  • Good Experience in using Spring Framework.  • Good experience in Angular Framework.  • Expertise in server side programming in CORE Java.  • Good Experience in developing JavaScript and VBScript functions.  • Experience in using Design Tools like Rational Rose Enterprise Tool, MS Visio for Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Design (OOD) using UML (Unified Modeling Language).  • Proficient in RDBMS concepts and experience in working with Oracle 9i/10g, MS SQL Server, MySQL.  • Expertise in writing Data Base objects like Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursors and Views.  • Expertise in using XML, XSD, XSLT.  • Expertise in developing Java web services using REST.  • Good Experience in writing unit test cases using JUNIT, Mokito, PowerMock.  • Good Experience in using IDE's Eclipse, IntelliJ and SQL Developer.  • Good understanding using Version control systems like Win CVS, Subversion (SVN), Perforce.  • Proficiency in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), AGILE methodology.  • Exceptional record overseeing all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), from analysis and design to implementation and maintenance.  • Excellent Communication skills and ability to think "Outside the Box". Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Developer Halvik Corp - Alexandria, VA December 2017 to Present References:  Eleanor Boyd, Project Manager  Phone: 805-338-0584    David Reed, Team Lead  Phone: 585-355-6128    Patent Center (EMODE2E) is a "United States Patent and Trademark Office" implemented next gen application which replaces the existing legacy application. It enables the automated process of filing an Application. Patent Center provides an efficient way of handling and processing the applications which drastically reduces the wait times compared to today.    Role & Contribution:  * Implemented Angular Directives for several requirements  * Designed and Implemented independent Email notification Framework micro service  * Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications (internal party) components using Restful.  * Implemented serve to server authentication using authorization headers  * Involved in creating a Blue/Green deployment environment plan to achieve zero downtime during production deployments.  * Used Jenkins for deploying code in local environments.  * Involved in high level architecture and design meetings.  * Implemented Spring MVC framework which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performed validations.  * Worked on creating Entity and DTO objects for the DB tables.  * Developed RESTFul Web Services for the clients which provide standalone client requested functionalities with very little load on the actual application.  * Developed Quartz scheduler to run daily report jobs and status update jobs.  * Involved in Unit, Integration and System testing across all the levels from development to production.  * Involved in integration testing with JBOSS.  * Followed USPTO standards in coding, testing and Fixing Sonar reports.  * Worked in Agile Environment with 3 parallel teams.  * Followed Agile Methodology and participated in daily SCRUM meetings and quarterly Release Planning.  * Used Rally for Story planning and defect tracking.  * Written SQL queries, modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features.  * Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  * Involved in preparation of test plans and integrated testing using JUnit.  * Participated in unit testing and functionality testing and used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Angular JS, Spring Boot, Gradle, Liquibase, Spring Data, Web Services, Oracle 10g, JavaScript, HTML, Angular JS, PL/SQL, Agile Development Process, Jenkins, Foreman, Nexus, Log4j, SVN, IntelliJ, JBOSS Application Server, Rally. Technical Lead Halvik Corp - Alexandria, VA December 2014 to December 2017 References:  Eleanor Boyd, Project Manager  Phone: 805-338-0584    Zobair Saleem, Peer Team Lead  Phone: 571-484-6275    Patent Trail and Appeal Board End 2 End (PTABE2E) is a "United States Patent and Trademark Office" implemented next generation application which replaces the existing legacy application. It enables the automated process of filing a petition against an approved patent. And it automates the whole process of filing a petition to hearing trails and final decisions.  PTABE2E provides an efficient way of handling and processing the petitions which drastically reduces the wait times compared to today.    Role & Contribution:  * Implemented application Level Audit Trail and Logging effectively using Spring AOP.  * Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications (internal party) components using Restful.  * Implemented Spring MVC framework which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performed validations.  * Worked on updating existing POJO classes as per the new requirements.  * Developed RESTFul Web Services for the clients which provide standalone client requested functionalities with very little load on the actual application.  * Involved in high level architecture and design meetings.  * Developed Quartz scheduler to trigger system generated tasks and scheduled jobs.  * Worked on implementing Notification Interface to send system generated notifications.  * Worked on implementing Alert Interface to generate and store Alerts as per requirements.  * Worked on developing Search API's to optimize the search in "Alfresco CMIS".  * Involved in Unit, Integration and System testing across all the levels from development to production.  * Worked on Angular JS framework to develop UI with widget experience.  * Involved in deploying the code to Jboss instance and do the smoke test.  * Followed USPTO standards in coding, testing and Fixing Sonar reports.  * Worked on Log4j for logging and solving issues.  * Worked in Agile Environment with 4 parallel teams.  * Followed Agile Methodology and participated in daily SCRUM meetings and quarterly Release Planning.  * Used Rally for Story planning and defect tracking.  * Followed continuous deployment process and used Jenkins, Foreman, Nexus to deploy into different environments.  * Written SQL queries, modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features.  * Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  * Involved in preparation of test plans and integrated testing using JUnit.  * Participated in unit testing and functionality testing and used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web Services, Oracle 10g, JavaScript, HTML, Angular JS, PL/SQL, Agile Development Process, Jenkins, Foreman, Nexus Log4j, Maven, SVN, JBDev Studio, JBOSS Application Server, Rally. Software Engineer Business Intelli Solutions Inc - San Ramon, CA January 2014 to December 2014 Jetstream/Centricity 360 is a cloud-deployed, transient image and document store that enables and securely manages communication of critical data between healthcare providers separated by geographical distance and/or network boundaries.  Jetstream will provide an efficient means of communication for medical images and documents; enabling loosely affiliated healthcare providers to share relevant images and associated information quickly and accurately, thereby increasing the efficacy of patient care.    Role & Contribution:  * Implemented Restful Web service for Document Viewer to properly retrieve and render an attached document that resides on the cloud.  * Modified existing Spring Configuration files to define bean properties and inject using Spring Dependency Injection (DI).  * Developed a separate Aspect for Logging and integrated with existing spring code using Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP).  * Participated in interface designs and web services specifications in collaboration with Architecture Group.  * Research on Normalization, HL7 integration, Dicom Viewer, CD ingestion.  * Worked on HL7 integration for normalization of the Dicom data.  * Worked on integrating the Cloverleaf the HL7 engine to integrate with the current architecture.  * Design patterns are extensively used to achieve clean separation of different layers. Used different patterns like SOA, MVC pattern, DAO pattern.  * Implemented Restful web services to auto populate the data in to search fields with the JSON response.  * Worked on writing efficient SQL Queries to fetch the data from the data base with the given inputs.  * Modified and developed the POJO classes in Hibernate.  * Implemented core java concepts like Multi-Threading, Collections and designing Interfaces.  * Refactored some of the front end pages using JSP, HTML, Java Script, JQUERY, AngularJS.  * Worked on performance testing with YSLOW and PageSpeed.  * Created and updated multiple technical documents which include Installation and Configuration procedures.  * Involved in setting up Environments for individual teams.  * Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using PowerMock, Mockito, Junit.  * Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  * Building osgi bundles and deployed into Apache Karaf Application server on multiple environments (Development, QA).  * Familiarity with HIPAA and PHI Federal regulations.  * Used Bamboo and Electric Commander for CI/CD.  * Used JIRA for bug tracking and Rally for story planning.  * Used Maven as Build Tool.  * Followed Agile Methodology and participated in daily SCRUM meetings and quarterly Release Planning.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDBC, XML, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, Spring AMQP, Web Services, HL7, Oracle 10g, JavaScript, HTML, JQUERY, Angular JS, Play, ActiveMQ, Rabbit MQ,PL/SQL, Agile Development Process, Log4j, Maven, IntelliJ, SVN, Perforce, Apache Karaf, Microsoft AZURE,JIRA, Rally. Software Engineer Business Intelli Solutions Inc - Dallas, TX October 2013 to December 2013 This project mainly deals with the collection of customer data and maintaining the account data.    Role & Contribution:  * Actively involved in analyzing and collecting user requirements.  * Wrote Specification for the development.  * Participated in Server side and Client side programming.  * Involved in writing JSPs and servlets.  * Writing the Javascript and designing the JSP GUI frame work.    Environment: Core Java, Windows XP, SQL, PL/SQL, Tomcat 5.0, Java, JSP, Html, Javascript, Servlets, Oracle 9i, Jdk1.4, JDBC, SVN(Subversion). Software Engineer Netenrich Technologies Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2010 to October 2012 NCare (agent) is abbreviated as Net Enrich Care, the project which is client server architecture in which the agent is deployed at the client machine. The preventative maintenance improves performance and provides trouble free operation, monitoring alerts when there is a problem and remote remediation to fix the problem, typically before the end-client sees the issue.    Role & Contribution:  * Participating in the High-level and low-level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  * Involved in data gathering during the business analysis and planning phase of the project.  * Used UML to design various data models including dataflow diagrams, workflow diagrams, sequence diagrams and interaction diagrams.  * Designed front end pages using JSP, JQUERY, JSON, JavaScript and AJAX calls to get the required data.  * Wrote Spring Configuration files for the beans defined and properties to be injected into them using spring's Dependency Injection.  * Designing of tables in Oracle database required for System user administration, Data Management.  * Implemented the Web Service and associated business modules integration.  * Worked on generating the web services classes by using Service Oriented Architecture SOA, WSDL, UDDI and SOAP.  * Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring MVC 3.0 including JSP, Servlets. Developed POJO objects corresponding to the database schema and implemented persistence in the business logic using Hibernate. Developed configuration files corresponding to beans mapped and backend database tables.  * Modified Account View functionality to enable display of blocked accounts details that have tags. This involved modifying Struts classes, JSP changes and middle tier enhancements.  * Effective usage of J2EE Design Patterns namely Session Facade, Factory Method, Command and Singleton to develop various base framework components in the application.  * Developed and deployed EJB's to implement the business logic and to handle the various interactions with the database.  * Developed the presentation layer using JSP, HTML, XHTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  * Used Eclipse as IDE for development, build, deployment and testing the application.  * Resolved database inconsistency with better design and efficient SQL queries.  * Used JUnit for testing the application.  * Maven was used as a build tool.  * Followed Agile Methodology and participated in daily SCRUM meetings.  * Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, HTML, XSLT JSON, Web Services, Oracle 11g, MS Visio, Eclipse, Maven, Agile development process, PL/SQL, Hibernate, Spring MVC 3.0, JBOSS , SVN, JUnit, and Log4j. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Andhra University Skills Jdbc, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Visual studio, C++, Html, Javascript, Xml, Xslt, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, AWS, Angular, Nodejs, Jquery Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages J2EE (Spring, Hibernate), Java, XML, Parsers (SAX, DOM), XSD, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, Web Services, SOAP, REST, UDDI, WSDL, Angular JS, Node JS  Databases Oracle 11g/10g/9i, SQL Server, MySQL, MsSQL  Software/IDE Eclipse, Net Beans, Maven, Visual Studio, IntelliJ  Operating Systems Unix(Solaris), Linux , Windows98/NT/2000/XP/7/8  Servers Web Logic (6.x/7.x/8.x/9.x/10.x), IBM Web Sphere (4.x0/ 5.x/6.x), Apache Tomcat, JBOSS EAP.  XML Methodologies XML, SOAP, XSD, DOM, XSLT  Web Development EJB, JavaScript, Spring MVC , JDBC, RMI, HTML, JMS,HTML5  Testing Tools JUnit 3.x, SOAP UI, Page Speed, YSLOW, Mokito, Powermock.