Instructor Instructor Promoting Software & Architectural Excellence Costa Mesa, CA I am an experienced JavaScript, C#, and t-SQL developer with an expertise in optimization.    I work in ASP.NET Web Forms along with MVC and WebApi2. I have thorough knowledge in Microsoft Azure Technologies (including Azure SQL Databases, Azure VM's, Web Roles, Worker Roles, Azure Websites, Azure Table Storage, Azure Blob Storage, and Azure Service Queues). I have knowledge in AWS Technologies (including S3, EC2, Simple Notification Service (SNS), Simple Queue Service (SQS), and Lambda)    I specialize in developing technologies and systems that do not rely on third party DLL's or API's and architecting systems with minimal maintenance or overhead.    I work with companies to help create migration plans from on-premise to cloud environments, create plans to transition to service oriented architecture (SOA), and help companies streamline and optimize code to take full advantage of the environment they are developing in.    Accolades include:  Certified ScrumMaster® Professional  Guest Speaker at SQLPass (Invited by Microsoft)  HIPPA compliance officer  Created custom .NET ADO wrapper when connecting to Azure SQL Databases  Created database defragmentation code specifically designed for Microsoft Azure SQL Database.  Created database dmv scripts to collect and monitor performance.  Created database code to extract and read ring buffer information for SQL Server Work Experience Instructor Learning Fuze - Irvine, CA September 2018 to Present Teaching Module 2 JavaScript course to students from all walks of life. Teaching JavaScript, ES6, jQuery, RESTful API's, Object Oriented Programming (OOP) principles.    https://learningfuze.com/part-time-program-module-2 Staff Software Engineer Teletrac Navman - Garden Grove, CA October 2017 to Present Participated in the development & maintenance of the enterprise level Asset Tracking software that is servicing customers all over the world.    Built QA test exit templates for determining SQL database utilization.  Performed code reviews and knowledge transfers for SQL optmization.  Provided performance improvements for multiple critical SQL queries performing poorly in production environments.    Worked with DBA's to test queries as needed and to get information from production environments.    Member of Architectural Overview Team, overseeing any architectural changes to the software  Member of Agile Scrum development team.  Was SQL Server SME for engineering department.  Participated in and provided guidance for QA Performance testing of the software.    Participated in Company-Wide "Kaizen" (problem solving) events related to Customer Service.    Wrote proposals for architectural changes to software.  Provided feedback regarding best practices for multiple areas including service oriented architecture (SOA), and security.    Utilized JavaScript, TypeScript, C#, t-SQL, MVC, WebApi's, WCF Calls. Employed AWS technologies.    Went onsite to perform evaluations/provide support for customers. Senior Software Developer Conexem Software December 2012 to September 2017 Participated in the development of the enterprise level Practice Management software that specializes in California  Workers Compensation Health Insurance Claims. Built background processing architecture for the software.  Developed external API's for third party partners to call into. Developed ancillary tools such as bulk file uploader, and SQL database downloader for company. Wrote approximately 45% of the entire software in use today. Utilized  JavaScript, C#, t-SQL, Web Forms, Web Services, & PowerShell. Employed Azure technologies, Worker Roles, Azure  SQL Databases, Redis Caches, Web Roles, Azure Websites, Azure Blob Storage, Azure Table Storage, Azure Service  Queues. Employed multiple third party technologies and built tools to aid in the functionality and deployment of the software. Implemented and set up custom servers for clients. Aided in implementation of the software for new  customers. Went onsite to perform evaluations/provide support for customers. Acted as HIPPA compliance officer for the software. Instructor | Sabio Sabio November 2016 to April 2017 Taught students from all walks of life in the Antioch CS 1010 12 week pre-work course. Taught JavaScript, jQuery,  C#, REST API's, MVC, t-SQL. Aided students in (post pre-work) boot camp in optimization, development, application  preparation, interview preparation. Assisted in set up of LMS (Learning Management System). Software Developer Xander Studios February 2011 to December 2012 Participated in the development of client applications. Used JavaScript, C#, t-SQL, Web Forms, & Web Services.  Created applications to perform a host of services, including the medical industry, along with order processing & management systems.    Website/Database Design  Created manelijodat.com    Created www.uonscion.com    Participated in the creation of practice.conexem.com & emr.conexem.com Education High school or equivalent Skills CPR, Public Speaking, Teaching, problem solving, Organizational Skills Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster® Professional January 2018 to January 2020