Android Software Engineer Android <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Android Software Engineer - Android Studio ? Developed Android apps for Android platforms 4.4 up to 9.0 ? 4.5+ years Android  ? Used wire framing and design tools for mobile UI/UX design. Development  ? Managed Version Control tools such as Git, Bitbucket. ? 5+ years Software  ? Configured automated builds with Jenkins, Hudson, and Travis.  Development  ? Automated testing with Espresso.  ? 6+ years Information  ? Coordinated international teams in different time zones.  Technology Field  ? Gathered requirement and produced technical documentation.  ? Continuously learn and adopt paradigms and new technologies.  ? Leadership and communication skills in an agile environment.  ? Organized and mentored members of the development team.  ? Top notch scheduling and resource management skills.  ? Implemented design patterns such as MVC, MVP, and Observer.  ? Hands-on skills on user interface and user experience UI/UX.  ? Implemented a vast set of Android frameworks targeted for multithreading.  ? Designed various applications using MVC, MVP, MVVM architecture/design patterns.  ? Supervised the creation of Content Providers and their data loading implementation.  ? Familiar with development for Tablets Phones, Chromecast, Start Watches and TV Sticks.  ? Experience exposing and consuming Web Services, utilizing both the Simple Object Access Protocol  (SOAP) and Representational State Transfer (REST) Protocols.  ? Use of Activities, Fragments, Custom Views, Services, Volley, Support library, and 3rd party libraries.  ? Experience using MySQL and PL/SQL to create stored procedures  ? Followed best practices for Android app architecture and programming, as well as Agile/Scrum processes.  frameworks: AsyncTasks, IntentServices, Handlers, Threads, Runnables, Loopers.  ? Implementation of RESTful data consumption using Retrofit with an OkHTTP client, GSON and Jackson  converters and a custom interceptor. Work Experience Android Software Engineer Android Studio - Pleasant Grove, UT September 2018 to Present Technologies: Android SDK, Android Studio, MVP, Kotlin, SQLite, Retrofit, Picasso, HTML, Android Studio,  MacOS, Zeplin, Sketch, SourceTree, GitLab, WorkFront, SCRUM    ? Organized collaboration between onsite and offshore team members.  ? Worked with the Mobile Product Management team develop new product features.  ? Worked closely with product owner and prioritized tasks and features.  ? Assisted and supported all engineering efforts company-wide as required.  ? Use Zeplin to have visual communication between the UI team and developers  ? Reduced app size by optimizing code, making frequent updates easier.  ? Built custom user controls based on UI/UX design for ease of interaction.  ? Use GitLab to manage version control of the product  ? Implement unit test using Mockito and Roboelectric  ? Reengineer logic for some process in order to optimize resources  ? Provided solutions and recommendations to project lead.  ? Develop new features using Kotlin, in Android studio  ? Analyze pull request in order to ensure they have best practices implemented    ? Rebase branches to avoid conflicts between feature branch and master branch  ? App implementing the Material Design specification.  ? Optimize methods to improve code usage Core Android Senior Engineer Walmart Labs - Sunnyvale, CA October 2017 to June 2018 Technologies: Android SDK, Android Studio, MVP, Kotlin, SQLite, OkHttp, Glide, HTML, Android Studio,  MacOS, Zeplin, SourceTree, GitHub    ? Organized collaboration between onsite and offshore team members.  ? Worked with the Mobile Product Management team develop new product features.  ? Worked closely with product owner and prioritized tasks and features.  ? Assisted and supported all engineering efforts company-wide as required.  ? Create feature flags to define the different behavior displayed to the customers  ? Worked with QA team, documenting issues and recommended features and improvement in JIRA.  ? Fixed bugs in JIRA and worked through JIRA backlog, ensured JIRA priority tasks were completed.  ? Use Zeplin to have visual communication between the UI team and developers  ? Reduced app size by optimizing code, making frequent updates easier.  ? Built custom user controls based on UI/UX design for ease of interaction.  ? Use GitHub to manage version control of the product  ? Implement unit test using Mockito  ? Create analytics event to track information required by client  ? Reengineer logic for some process in order to optimize resources  ? Provided solutions and recommendations to project lead.  ? Develop new features using Kotlin or Java, in Android studio  ? Analyze pull request in order to ensure they have best practices implemented  ? Rebase branches to avoid conflicts between feature branch and master branch  ? Designed custom animations for transitions between application activities.  ? Reskinned the features app implementing the Material Design specification. Android Senior Developer Atlanta, GA November 2016 to October 2017 Technologies: Android SDK, Android Studio, MVP, RxJava, SQLite, Retrofit, Glide, HTML, Android Studio,  MacOS, Zeplin, SourceTree, GitHub    ? Responsible for recommending technologies, frameworks and design patterns for the apps.  ? Responsible for gathering requirements and translating those into a workable implementation.  ? Responsible for architecture and implementation planning.  ? Created presentations and technical documentation.  ? Worked closely with product manager and prioritized tasks and features.  ? Assisted web development team to configure assets and text of the Android apps dynamically.  ? Led the development team, planned schedule, mentored developers, ran peer code reviews and made sure  project ran on schedule, ensured application approval and managed submission.  ? Ensured all testing was properly documented and submitted.  ? Coordinated activities for systems development, integration, test, and software release.  ? Assisted and supported all engineering efforts company-wide as required.  ? Developed test plans and procedures to validate system requirements.  ? Provided solutions and recommendations to project lead.  ? Generated the application with a Model View Presenter architectural design pattern to help with the modularity and maintainability.  ? Used Git repositories for version control.  ? Managed JIRA for tracking bugs, managing backlog, and assigning tasks.  ? Worked in accord with the visual standards team to make certain the mobile application complies with system UI/UX standards and specifications.  ? Used Handlers, Loopers, and Runnables to run tasks in the background rather than in the main thread.  ? Worked with broadcast receivers to receive system notification which was later used to send out reminders.  ? Supervised the creation of the testing (unit testing and integration testing) suites with Junit, Espresso, and  Mockito, and worked with a testing team and used developer testing tools like Robotium.  ? Designed custom animations for transitions between application activities.  ? Implemented SQLite database for persistent data storage and fast data retrieval.  ? Used Intents & Intent Filters to initiate activities and pass information between Activities and Fragments.  ? Ensured display and on-screen rotation worked well on all devices and screens, ensuring integrity with the onSaveInstanceState and onRestoreInstanceState methods.  ? Used Navigation Drawer Layout to provide quick and easy access to the menu items.  ? Introduced Parcelables for object transfers within activities.  ? Triggered events in the physical device using Local Broadcast Receivers. Android Software Engineer The National Institute of Statistics - Aguascalientes, Ags. January 2016 to November 2016 Aguascalientes, Mexico January 2016 - November 2016    Technologies: Android Studio, Android Wear , JSON, GSON, Marshmallow Permissions, Material Design,  Fragments, Glide, Compound and Custom Views, Animations, SQLite, Retrofit, Dagger, Git, Hudson, Nexus  Player    ? Worked with the Mobile Product Management team to define the new product features.  ? Rewired the app to handle the new Android 6 Marshmallow permissions model.  ? Migrated app to Firebase real-time database and implemented various Firebase tools and features such as  Firebase Crash Reporting, Firebase Analytics, and Firebase Cloud Messaging.  ? Reskinned the entire app implementing the Material Design specification.    ? Integrated multimedia material and live streaming video, decoding, and playback.  ? Handled web services calls for information and content data retrieval with Retrofit.  ? Added a user configuration setting to persist and switch the network usage.  ? Improved the bit rate over network changes with the Connectivity Manager.  ? Improved the Video browser and audio player performance multithreading.  ? Used restful calls in the app to gather information  ? Improved the Playlist manager by replacing the old ListViews by RecyclerView.  ? Conducted project plan reviews and resolved conflicts between times and tasks.  ? Used ProGuard to shrink, optimize, and obfuscate the code.  ? Implemented support for Android Wear as media remote control for the app.  ? Organized developers and assigned milestones and track project development.  ? Ensured backward compatibility with the latest compatibility libraries available.  ? Used private GitHub repositories to host internal code.  ? Used Jira for defect tracking and, project planning, and task assignment.  ? Participated on the set-up procedure for the Hudson server for continuous integration.  ? Used Retrofit and GSON to retrieve information from an internally programmed API and make the conversion between the JSON and POJOs.  ? Utilized Continuous integration and automated testing throughout the mobile app development process.  ? Used SharedPreferences to retain user UI preferences with local key-value pairs.  ? Used navigation drawer to provide quick and easy access to the menu items. Native Android Developer CCEO - Aguascalientes, Ags. January 2014 to January 2016 Technologies: Android Studio, TestFairy, Butter Knife, Dagger, Parse, EventBus, Facebook, Twitter, MVC,  Jersey, JSON, Navigation Drawer, Fragments, Services, AsyncTask, Volley, Picasso, Bitbucket, Jira,  Robotium, HP Quality Center, Espresso, Mockito, MixPanel, Flurry    ? Participated in the full life-cycle development process from product definition.  ? Worked in Java coding and with native, and third-party frameworks in Android Studio IDE, using Gradle to compile the builds.  ? Updated this app to use Firebase for superior performance and functionality.  ? Used Firebase for real-time database, dynamic links, and app indexing.  ? Implemented Firebase Crash Reporting and Firebase Analytics.  ? Worked with product and user experience teams to adapt the app to phones and tablets.  ? Built the entire user interface following the UI/UX and the material design specs, using fragments and custom views.  ? Organized collaboration between onsite and offshore developers.  ? Used Parse for sending notifications to the attendees about changes and alerts.  ? Incorporated Facebook SDK and twitter API for logging, posting, and share experiences.  ? Closely worked with testing team and used developer testing tools like Robotium, Espresso, and Mockito.  ? Implemented multithreaded programming to better handle long running operations.  ? Created several compound views to match the UI provided by the UI team.  ? Implemented EventBus to manage most of the app event process interfacing.  ? Queried for requests utilizing HTTP and parsed JSON responses.  ? Implemented dependency injection for view inflation with Butter Knife.  ? Stored data in SQLite and with a Content Provider security layer.  ? Created an MVC design pattern and optimized existing codebases concerning extensibility.  ? Implemented offline mode and synchronized data when connectivity  becomes available.  ? Reduced app size by optimizing code, making frequent updates easier.  ? Built custom user controls based on UI/UX design for ease of interaction.  ? Integrated with 3rd Party libraries such as MixPanel, and Flurry analytics.  ? Replaced Volley with Retrofit for faster JSON parsing, and with Glide for faster image loading.  ? Worked with QA team, documenting issues and recommended features and improvement in JIRA.  ? Fixed bugs in JIRA and worked through JIRA backlog, ensured JIRA priority  tasks were completed.  ? Provided loose coupling using Dagger dependency injection library from  Google  ? for the app structure such as observer, singleton, proxy, façade, decorator, visitor. Education Universidad Autónoma de Aguascalientes Software Apps Engineering University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX Skills ANDROID (5 years), FIREBASE (2 years), JAVA (2 years), HTML (2 years), MODEL-VIEW-PRESENTER (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: JAVA/J2EE, C#.NET, C/C++, ASP.NET, PHP, Python, Kotlin  Web Technologies: HTML 5, XML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, REST/SOAP Web Services, WCF, ASP.NET  MVC, CSS 3, Bootstrap.  Debugging: DDMS tool, ADB, Firebase Crash Reporting, Fabric Crashlytics, Android Profiler  Design Patterns: MVC, MVP, MVVM  Project Methodologies & Tools: Agile, Scrum, JIRA, Kanban, Slack, Basecamp, SourceTree  IDE: Android Studio, Eclipse, Visual Studio, IntelliJ  Frameworks & Tools: Firebase, Flurry, Espresso, GCM, Google Maps, GSON, Glide, Picasso, Fabric, Butter  Knife, MonkeyRunner, JustInMind, Mockito, Junit, Parse, ProGuard, TestFairy, Urban Airship, Volley, Universal  Image Loader, Robotium, Bluetooth Low Energy, ExoPlayer, MediaPlayer, Fragments, Threads, Loopers,  Loaders  Continuous Integration: Jenkins, Hudson, Travis Ci, Fresco  Misc. Skills: Consulting, change management, application development, migration, administration, application  support, best practices, integration, custom application development, processes optimizer.