Support Engineer Support Engineer Support Engineer US To work with an organization of professionals where I could have more challenges, responsibilities and a rewarding career in software development field so as to utilize and enhance my knowledge, skills and expertise and achieve career growth, personal development and satisfaction in life. Work Experience Support Engineer Mahaonline ltd March 2019 to May 2019 Roles & Responsibilities:  - Provide Support issue resolution customer request  - Report Generation  - Data Migration  - Lead generation form development Using HTML5, CSS3, Javascript. Software Developer Casby Logistics Solutions Pvt. Ltd May 2017 to March 2019 Roles & Responsibilities:  - Designed Custom Application Pages using HTML5, CSS & Javascript.  - Use Jquery plugins wherever necessary.  - Worked on production issues, debugging the application and fixing the issues. Sr. Web Developer Growth Avenues Pvt. Ltd December 2016 to April 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  - Requirement analysis and preparing the technical documents.  - Design, develop and implement software applications.  - Responsible for managing all IT related initiatives.  - Support, bug fixing and enhancements to application  - Database performance tuning, query optimization and implemented caching as needed.  - Export data to PDF or Excel as needed in screens.  - Developing RESTful web services using Node js. Sr. Web / HTML Developer LycodonFX Pvt. Ltd December 2013 to December 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  - Involved in requirements gathering and requirements analysis.  - Developed and modified software modules based on business requirements.  - Worked with Business Analyst and Architects to develop applications based on project requirements.  - Created various MIS Reports and displayed the data.  - Designed and custom application pages using PHP, HTML, JQuery and AJAX.  - Tracking change versions of source and requirements/enhancements.  - Support, bug fixing and enhancements to application.  - Developing RESTful web services using PHP.  - Database performance tuning, query optimization and implemented caching as needed. Education Master of Computer Applications Passed in Computer Applications Mumbai University 2013 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Mumbai University 2010 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    - Solid understanding of core JavaScript concepts.  - Proficient in Node, Angular.  - Good Understanding of data structures, algorithms, object-oriented programming..  - Proficient in HTML5, AJAX, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery  - Good experience on Versioning tools like SVN and GIT.  - Experience in developing RESTful web services using Node js.  - Payment gateway integration.  - Good understanding of Database: MySQL & MongoDB.