Applications Architect Applications Architect Applications Architect - Data Inc • Result-driven professional experience in IT industry for over 6+ years with active involvement in all stages of project development and management including requirement analysis, estimation, design, code development/enhancement, unit/integration testing and support role.  • Extensive experience with Software Development Life Cycle and Quality procedures of CMMI Level 5.  • Around 6 years of experience in CEP and Enterprise Applications Integration (EAI) development using full range of TIBCO Products TIBCO Rendezvous, Active Database (ADB) Adapter, File Adapters, TIBCO Designer, TIBCO Hawk, TIBCO Active matrix Business Works, TIBCO Business Events, AMX Policy Manager, TIBCO Enterprise for JMS/EMS and TIBCO Active Spaces.  • Deployed projects on different environments using TIBCO BW Administrator and AppManage utility, automated shell scripting to deploy common services and master projects.  • Experience in Installation, Trouble shooting and support of TIBCO products.  • Provided 24*7 on-call extensive Production Support on TIBCO Applications.  • Hands-on experience in Analysis, development, testing, installing and deployment of Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) projects using TIBCO components, architecture and methodology.  • Experience in developing test cases and test plans for system testing and involved in unit testing, Integration testing and UAT extensively.  • Specialized in code optimization and query tuning for performance.  • Expert in change management, team coordination and mentoring team members.  • Strong experience in testing and implementation phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Competent in Database development using SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Stored Functions, Packages and Triggers.  • Expertise in performance testing and tuning BW accordingly.  • Experienced with Waterfall methodology and agile methodology.  • An effective communicator with strong team management, interpersonal, analytical and problem-solving skills.  • A patient individual with a very positive attitude along with skills in time and resource management. Work Experience Applications Architect Data Inc - Pennington, NJ July 2018 to Present Tibco    Description:  Merrill, previously Merrill Lynch, is an American investing and wealth management division under the auspices of Bank of America. Along with BofA Securities, the investment banking arm, both firms engage in prime brokerage and security dealings. The firm is headquartered in New York City. Merrill employs over 15,000 financial advisors and manages $2.2 trillion in client assets. The firm has its origins in Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. which, prior to 2009, was publicly owned and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol MER. Merrill Lynch & Co. agreed to be acquired by Bank of America on September 14, 2008, at the height of the 2008 Financial Crisis. The acquisition was completed in January 2009 and Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. was merged into Bank of America Corporation in October 2013, with certain Bank of America subsidiaries continue to carry the Merrill Lynch name, including the broker-dealer Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith. In 2019, Bank of America rebranded the unit to "Merrill."    Responsibilities:  • Understand Detailed Requirements from Functional and Business Owners.  • List, Groom, Size and Schedule Stories for agile sprints.  • List down Use Cases for a business scenario prior to start of Dev work.  • Developed technical design documents and implemented process flows in Business Works  • Guided the Enterprise Architect team on the approach of implementing retry process in BW  • Upgraded the BW Processes from BW 5.11 to 5.13  • Involved in developing messaging applications including point-to-point and publish-subscribe.  • Extensive Experience in Upgrading, Installing BW, EMS, Configuring Queues, Topics.  • Facilitate project/application deployment from SIT to UAT and PROD using TIBCO Continuous Integration Tools.  • Perform detailed analysis on the requirements and develop code adhering to the standards of Firm.  • Update Dev activities status in Rally based on code completion.  • Perform Code Review for Units of Completed Task.  • Configured Failover and Load Balancing TIBCO Applications.  • Participated in Infrastructure setup and capacity planning of TIBCO Servers  • Done the Performance Tuning on EMS servers.  • Determine appropriate threshold levels for alerting  • Perform Unit Testing in Lower Environments.  • Resolve defects uncovered by Testing and Business Teams by making appropriate code fixes.  • Participate in Retrospective sprints at the end of each sprint to understand the velocity of the deliverables made.  • Provide support to Integration and Performance related Testing.  • Preparation and Delivery of the entire Code for Production Environment.  • Develop Proof of Concept for new frameworks using the current market technologies  Environment: TIBCO Business Works 5.11,5.13, TIBCO Administrator 5.7, TIBCO Designer, TIBCO EMS 8.3, TIBCO Hawk, TIB/File Adapter 7.x, TIB/ADB Adapter 6.x, TIBCO Spotfire 5.0, SOA, XML, UNIX, Windows XP, HP ALM. Sr. Tibco Developer/ Prod support Lead Infosys Limited, CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield - Baltimore, MD September 2016 to July 2018 Description:  CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield is one of largest health care insurance provider in northeast United States. CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield is a non-stock health services company which, through its affiliates and subsidiaries, offers a comprehensive portfolio of products and administrative services to individuals and groups in Maryland, the District of Columbia and portions of Northern Virginia. CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield is the parent company of CareFirst of Maryland, Inc., and Group Hospitalization and Medical Services, Inc. CareFirst, Inc., and its affiliates are governed by a Board of Directors and special statutes regulating the company's business in Maryland, the District of Columbia and Northern Virginia.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing the solutions  • Involved in analyzing the issues and providing the solutions on the critical issues  • Working on the Tibco BW components to implement the critical Business processes  • Monitoring the Business processes using the BWPM tool to trouble shoot the critical issues  • Monitoring the logs using BWPM tool for identifying the potential issues  • Providing the 24/7 support for the Production environment if required  • Using various monitoring tools like Splunk, to get portal request as applications integrated to portal in front end for monitoring & debugging the Tibco services and logs to identity the critical issues  • Worked on critical production incidents within respective SLA using ServiceNow  • Debugged data errors in TIBCO services by using different queries in database using oracle, SQL developer.  • Debugged service errors by logging into physical Linux server with the help of server logs.  • Providing Quick Fixes to critical issues, Test support in lower environments  • Validating the services after Production Patching for the servers  • Enhancing the existing service based on the additional requirement from the client  • Monitoring and reporting on the issues of third party services proactively  • Configured the email notification part for particular exception  • Documenting the issues and resolution steps occurred in Production  • Discussion\meetings, providing data for reports  • Providing the RCA for all critical issues which impacts business  • Building the package file using uBuild and deploying the code using uDeploy tools provided by IBM.  • Managing the GV's using customized GV tool for CareFirst.  Environment: TIBCO Business Works 5.10, TIBCO Web Studio, TIBCO Designer 5.x, TIBCO EMS 5.x/4.x, TIBCO ADB Adapter 6.x/ 5.x, TIBCO Hawk 4.x, TIBCO Administrator 5.x, Oracle 10g, OracleSQL Developer. TIBCO Developer Asurion - Nashville, TN August 2015 to August 2016 Description:  Asurion Corp. is the largest global provider of wireless handset insurance and wireless roadside assistance programs. It also offers data-backup services through wireless carriers in North America.  The largest wireless companies serviced by Asurion are AT&T Mobility, Bell Canada, Sprint, T-Mobile, U.S. Cellular, Verizon Wireless, Bouygues Telecom, Tesco, Virgin Mobile, and TELUS.    Responsibilities:  • Working on Replacing Blaze rules with TIBCO Business Events Rules.  • Used TIBCO Web Studio and RMS for modifying Business Rules and Decision Tables from Web Studio UI.  • Used Web Studio to modify Domain Models for Dropdown purposes.  • Integrated with Business Works from BE to get initial load of data from database.  • Suspended channels of BE till all the initial load of data is in memory.  • Used Database Concepts from BE for Look Up Data within the database.  • Involved in Creating CDD file which has 6 cache, 2 Query and 2 Inference Agents.  • Used Business Works to get data from DAL Team which is responsible for having all master data.  • Involved in Deploying Code into DEV and Support of PROD Environments.  • Used Query Agents to Query the data in Cache Memory.  • Implemented Try catch finally blocks for error handling and written all the logs to Oracle Database.  • Developed a common error handler process to log all errors to an Oracle database.  • Developed interface migration documents to outline the overall upgrade strategy.  • Modified various destination properties using queue and topic configuration files.  • Setup bridges for several destinations to facilitate logging of mission critical messages into a database for archival purposes.  • Performed unit testing of individual components and integration testing of several interfaces.  Environment:  TIBCO Business Events 5.1.4, TIBCO Business Works 5.12, TIBCO Web Studio, .Net, TIBCO Business Works 5.x, TIBCO Designer 5.x, TIBCO EMS 5.x/4.x, TIBCO ADB Adapter 6.x/ 5.x, TIBCO Hawk 4.x, TIBCO Administrator 5.x, Oracle 9.i, SQL Plus. Tibco Developer HRK Solutions - Atlanta, GA 2014 to July 2015 Description:  Our client for this project was AMEX, one of the leading banking sectors based in United States of America. This project named GNA (Global New Accounts) was to acquire new customers for American Express credit cards. Global New Accounts is a Mainframe Acquisition Platform which decides on applications for new accounts. There are set of End to end rules which drives the application process.  Responsibilities  • Analyzed the requirements and detailed the specification for EAI implementation.  • Coordinate with offshore team for day to day activities.  • Developed the Process Flow Diagrams to specify business logic of the workflow model  • Development of workflow solution for exception handling & Reconciliation process  • Interfacing the core enterprise service bus with the TIBCO process suite for the exception handling scenario  • Development of a real-time dashboard to provide details of the messages processed in the Service Bus.  • Support for DeAM User Acceptance Testing and Deployment  • Downstream Data Integration using TIBCO EMS  • Robust, mature, transactional environment based on TIBCO EMS assured delivery  • Messages support Common Information Model (CIM)  • Tib/Hawk based administration module provides rich monitoring and management capabilities  • Tib/Hawk integrated with Tivoli to send alarms to IT Administrators for critical business support needs  • Involved in developing the process workflow and in Unit Testing all the test cases.  • Configured and deployed the BW components in System Integration Testing environment.  • Used SFTP Service to FTP the files remotely.  • User Acceptance Testing  • Managing and assisting the Deployment  • Designed databases and related XML schemas  • Installed Administration Server and configured Business Works components to communicate with Administration Server  • Installation and configuration of TIBCO products across various testing environments.  • Conducted Unit testing of the components by building test scenarios.  Environment:  TIBCO Business Works, TIBCO Designer, TIBCO Rendezvous, TIBCO ADB Adapter, TIBCO Adapter for Files , TIBCO Admin , TIBCO Hawk , TIBCO Runtime Agent. Software Intern Focus Systems/SVK Systems - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2012 to December 2013 Software Engineer- Tibco.    Description:  Client implements TIBCO as an integration environment. To integrate various departments of the Enterprise with each other and with third-party application TIBCO EMS is used as a back bone. And web-services like SOAP/HTTP, SOAP/JMS are also used.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, design, development of Project.  • Involved in technical design of the message flows and EMS infra-structure design.  • Involved in creating test plans and test cases to check the validity of the product  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing  • Maintenance & Support of the existing UVerse applications.  • Work with support and maintenance teams to diagnose/solve issues after production migration.  • Involved in quality processes like documentation review, code review, and creation and updating the project system Documentation.  • Involved in the development and testing of the change requests.  • Providing technical leadership and guidance to the team  • Acted as advisor and mentor to new or existing lower level analysts.  • Co-ordinate with clients in resolving issues or solving critical tasks.  • Co-coordinating with the upstream and downstream applications whenever required.  Environment:  TIBCO Designer, TIBCO BusinessWorks 5.4, TIBCO EMS, TIBCO Business Factor, TIBCO Administration, Oracle, XML. Education Master's in information system technology in Information Assurance Wilmington University January 2014 to August 2015 India Bachelor of Sciences in Sciences Andhra University August 2008 to March 2012 Skills Db2, Tibco, Eai, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Visual studio, Application server, Html, Scripting, Svn, Visio, Visual basic, Xml, Apache, Linux, Shell scripting, Unix Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  High level Languages C, Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, Unix Shell Scripting  Databases Familiarity Microsoft SQL Server, DB2, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11i.  EAI Tools  TIBCO Business Works 5.x, TIBCO Administrator, EMS 4.x/5.x/6.x/7.x, TIBCO Adapters (File, ADB, MQ), TIBCO Hawk Suite 4.x, TRA 5.x, TIB RVD, TIBCO Business Events 3.X/4.0/5.0/5.1, TIBCO Active Spaces 1.1/2.0/2.1, SOAPUI.    Operating System Windows, Unix, Linux  Packages MS Office, Visual Basic.  Web Technologies HTML, JSP, Java script, XML.  Designing Tools Microsoft Visio, XML Spy.  IDE Net Beans, Eclipse, Visual Studio.  Web/Application server Apache Tomcat  Version Control SVN, Clear Case.