System Specialist System Specialist Software Engineer Solomon, KS CONTACT  I enjoy working on complex enterprise web applications as they tend to cover a wide variety of technologies, back to front. I like to become familiar with the functional and data flows within these applications and then use that understanding to fix problems and add features. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Specialist Kansas State University 2014 to 2018 Maintain an integrated work management system (IWMS) called AiM by AssetWorks. Design, createand maintain custom BIRT reports. Train and support users. Design, implement and maintain ETLdata interfaces using Pentaho Data Integrator. Also use ETL processes to manipulate disparate datasets and to upload bulk data sets to the database. Use SQL scripts on a MySQL database to retrieveraw data. Use JavaScript on the JVM (Project Nashorn) to implement custom validation, automateprocesses, log data, send notification emails, and pre-populate fields with default values. IT Engineer - Software Developer Brigham Young University 2013 to 2014 Made recommendations for tools and technologies to be used by Java developers within OIT.Specifically focused on a technology and accountability roadmap for Java application servers, aswell as the process necessary to migrate in-house applications from GlassFish to Tomcat. Java Software Engineer Unishippers Global Logistics 2008 to 2013 Created and maintained enterprise web applications using Java (Struts 2, JSP, JPA, FreemarkerTemplates), Javascript (YUI, Prototype, jQuery), CSS, and HTML. Created and maintained backendprocesses to handle EDI, FTP, file I/O, and XML, as well as HTML email generation, includingembedded images and alternate plain text. Education Master of Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Bellevue University 2011 Bachelor of Science in Minors in Computer Science and Information Systems Brigham Young University January 2003 to December 2008 Skills Java (7 years), Javascript (6 years), MySQL (5 years), SQL (10+ years), HTML (8 years), CSS (8 years)