Rental Sales Agent Rental Sales Agent Information Technology Professional Chapel Hill, NC Work Experience Rental Sales Agent Avis Budget Group - Morrisville, NC June 2017 to Present ? Provide customer support with selection of rental vehicles and other pertinent products and services via face-to-face or over the telephone  ? Successfully process and average of 30 rentals per shift using proprietary software based on an IBM IMS mainframe terminal and web-based software  ? Investigate and reconcile customer rental return discrepancies expeditiously  ? Train new and existing agents with software used at the counter Associate Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield of NC - Durham, NC September 2014 to January 2017 Developed wrappers between SOAP and REST web services to a telephony cloud infrastructure for new IVR application in J2EE  ? Unit tested web service wrappers using software tools like Postman and SoapUI to ensure data integrity between the web services and the cloud  ? Consumed web services  ? Performed integrations on applications that use J2EE, EJB, and JSP technologies  ? Documented use cases for software features in formal SDLC setting (change process)  ? Maintained up-to-date system files through IBM Rational Team Concert (RTC)  ? Presented code demonstrations in meetings up to 15 people Application Developer NRSC - Durham, NC March 2014 to August 2014 Customized software components for self-checkout lanes for clients such as Panda, Wegmans, and Winn Dixie/Bi-Lo using Java and XML/XSLT through the Eclipse IDE  ? Unit tested self-checkout lanes through virtualization utilizing proprietary tools for quality assurance  ? Documented use cases for software features Java Software Developer Robert Half Technology - Client - Qualex - Durham, NC May 2013 to January 2014 Developed components for the Business Data System which is a Java-based content management system using Java Server Faces and XHTML through the Oracle 11 database using the Eclipse IDE  ? Queried Oracle SQL through Toad for data quality assurance and display of CMS reports  ? Maintained up-to-date system files through Subversion Information Technology Consultant Forefront Technologies - Client - Canon USA - Burlington, NC March 2012 to February 2013 Developed user integrations for the Canon Latin America website  ? Developed components for a Java-based web application using Java, JavaScript, JSP, and XML in the MVC design pattern  ? Transformed XSL stylesheets into other file formats and languages using the Eclipse IDE  ? Utilized the web content management features of the Documentum Web Publisher platform Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science North Carolina State University Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Java technologies, Jaxb, Jsp, Git, Html, Javascript, Json, Subversion, Xml, Xsl, Xslt, Css, Tomcat, Web services, Websphere, Rest web services, Soap Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/clpulliam Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qyonqt6pzb-mffmn Data Analysis — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/evylyxa2mka9u9-8 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  ? Extensive experience developing code using Core Java, J2EE, JSP, JAXB and other Java technologies on the Eclipse IDE  ? Experience writing and using human readable data formats such as XML, JSON, XSL, and XSLT  ? Knowledge of consumption of SOAP and REST Web Services through SOAP UI  ? Experience with Unit Testing and with using regression tools such as Junit  ? Experience with AGILE and Waterfall Development Methodologies  ? Experience using web servers such as IBM WebSphere and Apache Tomcat  ? Experience maintaining UIs with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  ? Experience writing SQL queries in Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server  ? Experience versioning code with tools such as Subversion, Git, and Rational Team Concert  ? Extensive experience as an IT contractor  ? Outstanding learning ability and strong desire to learn new skills  ? Very strong communication, customer focus, and relationship building skills  ? Training and presentation skills