Developer Analyst <span class="hl">Developer</span> Analyst Developer Analyst Gainesville, FL C  • Swift  • Xcode  • Java  • Kotlin  • Angular 8  • HTML  • CSS  • Javascript  • Typescript  • iOS SDK  • Android SDK Work Experience Developer Analyst University of Florida May 2017 to July 2019 2  Recode from the ground up their two iOS applications Vetcare and eHealth, which the vet techs use to collect data on their animals in the department of research. Helped maintain and fix bugs on their dot net website and MySQL database when needed by responding to tickets using Spiceworks. Also helped implement a bug tracking system called Jira, and used Fabric for crash reporting and app deployment.  • Used XCode using swift for the iOS applications  • Used Microsoft Visual Studio for the dot net web applications with C#  • Used Javascript with Angular to develop mobile web front end.  • Used Microsoft SQL Management studio  • Used Visual Studio to build out .Net pages for websites  • Used Angular 7 as a possible replacement for the front end. Mobile App Developer TelTech November 2016 to March 2017 Contract  Part of a development team that developed customer facing telephony applications on both Android and iOS  • Used Android studio with Android SDK using Java to develop Spoof Card upgrade application  • Used XCode and Swift 3 to develop parts of Phone Look up pro Mobile App Developer Monscierge January 2016 to October 2016 Part of a development team that developed the customer facing Android/iOS app for concierge requests to staff  • Used Android Studio, Android SDK using Java to develop the UI/UX portions and RESTful libraries imported using gradle to allow the app to consume the Monscierge API.  • Used XCode with Swift to build out the customer cart and request modules of the iOS App.  • Worked hands on with Xamarin while investigating various development platforms for the company.  ? Developed test android project  ? Developed test iOS project Mobile Developer Hashrocket August 2015 to January 2016 Contract  Part of a programming team for the Mobile development for a Zaarly (Android) project  • Used Android Studio with Java to build out the UI/UX portions of the app, also used RESTful libraries to pull in data from a server.  • Hi-Fi (iOS)  • Used XCode with Objective C to build out portions of the UI/UX to match the deliverable mockups. Used Cocoa pods to install libraries that would pull in data on an AWS server. iMobile3 - Android/iOS developer May 2015 to July 2015 Part of a team that worked on POS (point of sale) native applications for Fortune 500 companies using native iOS and Android SDKs.  • Harbor Touch  • Used Android Studio w/Java to build out the UI/UX for the cart portion of the app using an embedded android OS for a cash register  • Used Objective C and XCode to build a sample app showing the various methods that are used and how to implement them using the ProPay SDK. Senior Software Mobile Developer Mindtree September 2014 to May 2015 Part of a UI/UX development team  • Xamarin was used as a possible replacement for native code.  • Toyota Driving game - Used XCode with Objective C to help build the car driving, coin collecting game for a Toyota innovation fair  • Marriott Vacation Club Website - Used HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, and Bootstrap to build the front end of the websites that were assigned  • Agile Assessment App - Used Android SDK, Android studio, and Java to build the UI/UX portion of the app Software Developer Plan First Technologies September 2012 to September 2014 Contract  Development of various complete client websites and CMS on the back end.  • Used HTML, JavaScript, PHP, CSS, and jQuery Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science in Course work including Ithaca College App Creation 2014