Senior Consultant Senior Consultant Senior Software Engineer Chicago, IL Innovative technical professional with expertise in Microservices and Big Data. Offering 9 years of experience in full project life cycle from design to implementation to integration. Quickly learn and master new technologies and working in both team and self-directed settings. Decisive leader and reliable team builder with results-focused and driven approach. Proficient in Java/J2EE and Agile/Scrum Methodologies. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Consultant VLink Inc - Chicago, IL June 2018 to Present ? Worked as part of eWallet team at J.P.Morgan, application that will be used to deliver  integrated cash management solutions to eCommerce Marketplace Operators  ? Maintained and developed Microservices in product  ? Contributed to architecture, design, configuration, and integration of different components in product Senior Technical Consultant Perficient Inc - Fairfax, VA May 2016 to May 2018 ? Worked as part of Data Ingestion project at Depository Trust And Clearing Corporation  ? Implemented AWS big data lake and big data mart and storing trillion rows in tables in parquet format  ? Developed Spark programs using Scala APIs and utilizing Spark Core, Spark Streaming and Spark SQL API for faster processing of data  ? Involved in creating hive tables, loading with data and writing hive queries  ? Developed and Maintained REST APIs for persisting and retrieving all ingestion related data Software Developer Egen Solutions - Naperville, IL October 2015 to April 2016 ? Worked as part of Data Ingestion project at Uptake  ? Imported and exported large sets of data into HDFS and vice versa using Sqoop  ? Used Flume to collect, aggregate and push log data from different log servers into HDFS Java Software Engineer Hallmark Data Systems - Skokie, IL December 2014 to July 2015 ? Worked as part of projects Dragon and Illume where we had to help build out digital edition suite of software and services  ? Developed and consumed REST web services and web applications Engineer HERE Technologies - Chicago, IL August 2013 to May 2014 ? Worked as part of projects Turbomap and Clipso in Core Map Engineering division  ? Developed new features and maintained application and system components by resolving issues and adding enhancements Business Analyst TEG Business Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2010 to February 2011 ? Applied Data Analysis Techniques to analyze enormous data set with respect to different  parameters and extract relevant information as requested by client  ? Transformed derived results to readily understandable graphs and explain them in detailed presentation to deliver to client Software Engineer Samsung India Software Operations - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2007 to September 2010 ? Was involved in a couple of projects where my role was to maintain and develop APIs for middleware framework modules for mobile platforms  ? Was exposed to Core Java/J2ME technologies Education Master's in Computer Science Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL August 2011 to May 2013 Bachelor of Technology in Electrical Engineering Indian Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University - Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh July 2003 to May 2007 Assessments Attention to Detail — Highly Proficient August 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zrv1cfdspcfjkdsz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills:  Java, Scala, Groovy, Python, SQL, Spark, Hadoop, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Hibernate, Zookeeper, Kafka, Nifi, Sqoop, Flume, HDFS, Hive, Pig, Impala, Yarn, Oozie, AWS S3, AWS Lambda, AWS EC2, AWS EMR, AWS RDS, AWS DynamoDB, AWS SQS, AWS API Gateway, JUnit, Mockito, PostgreSQL, MySql, H2, Cassandra, JMS, Jersey, JAXB, Maven, Gradle, SOAP, REST, JSON, XML, Tomcat, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Intellij, Eclipse, Git, Jenkins, Jules, Docker, Cucumber, Linux, Jira, Confluence, Statistical Analysis System (SAS), MS Excel, MS PowerPoint.