Sr PHP/Drupal Developer Sr PHP/Drupal <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr PHP/Drupal Developer - Toyota New York, NY • 6+ years of experience on PHP7 and PHP5, HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, DHTML.  • Experienced in PHP5, MySQL, Python, OOPS, Design Patterns, Code Igniter, Laravel, HTML5, CSS.  • Experience in Drupal Themes developing Drupal custom modules, resolving Drupal configuration issues.  • Specializes in ReactJS, Magento 1, Magento 2, and PHP.  • Experience with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, CakePHP, Zend Framework, Drupal, WordPress, Webpack, Babel, and Redux.  • Created & consumed RESTful web services using Magento, PHP and Axios library for React.  • Developed responsive website layouts on browsers & mobile devices using Bootstrap.  • Developed reusable components using ES6, React libraries.  • Built customs extensions using Magento 1 & 2.  • Excellent work done in writing queries, stored procedures, triggers and functions in MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, NoSQL, MongoDB, DB2 etc.  • Experience in content management systems like Drupal, WordPress to perfectly suit the client's requirements.  • Technically adept and confident software programmer with exceptional skills in coding and documentation.  • Exceptional ability to quickly master new concepts and a proactive team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr PHP/Drupal Developer Toyota - Saline, MI October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used all aspects of MYSQL/ PHP Programming (object-oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment.  • Developed Contact Fill Application using Drupal and installation and integration of the Application online.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by plugins or feeds under PHP, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery Technology.  • Modifying PHP, HTML, CSS, Java script, JQuery according to project requirements.  • As a developer involved in design and developing websites using PHP5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML4/5, AJAX and MYSQL.  • Worked with PHP, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant networking website.  • Experience in WordPress plugging development creating and modifying WordPress themes.  • Created a DRUPAL/DKAN site that utilizes both PHP and Database.  • Used Spring ORM to integrate with Hibernate and used the Hibernate template to persist the data.  • Created LESS files and used grunt to preprocess and generate the CSS files.  • Custom WordPress themes creation with HTML5, CSS using LESS, and PHP files.  • Used Hibernate extensively to persist the data into the Oracle11g database.  • Extensively used Annotations, Mappings and querying the database using Hibernate.  • Responsible for designing new modifications and enhancements to current production systems and driving the team which implements them for Magento WordPress sites.  • Developed front end themes from customization of the WordPress backend for enhanced client usability, plugin integrations, launch and maintenance.  • Worked on an open-source CMSDrupal to build website using Drupal7  • Custom module and template design and development for Magento.  • Customize the Magentocore codebase and developed extensions.  • In charge of building, design and maintaining websites using CMS systems such as WordPress and Magento.  • Used SMTP mail class of PHP for the users to send mail with suggestions. Extensive use of PHPMailer class.  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Developed user interface using PHP, CodeIgniter, NOCMS, bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3.  • Used YII Framework to implement MVC (Model View Controller) architecture;  • Used different YII extensions required.  • Integrated Continuos delivery pipelines into Jenkins  • Worked on several grunt tasks for automating the tasks.  • Worked in CMS tools such as Joomla, Drupal and WordPress.  • Modified the source code according to the requirement using Joomla  • Experience in automation server Jenkins to automate the tasks for building, testing and deploying.  • Developed Configurable shims for modular JavaScript. Displayed good UX  • Worked with the Database Schema design and normalization for database accessed by the procedural PHP pages  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, and CSS, JQuery other libraries  • Worked with integrating search engine optimization (SEO) functionality within an MVC framework using constantly evolving legitimate techniques to improve website ranking in the major Search Engines.    Environment: PHP5, HTML5, Drupal7, Zend Framework, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, MYSQL, BitBucket, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Flash Professional, Bash, DKAN, Report Builder, Ubuntu 12.04, LAMP, Magento, WordPress, YII, MYSQL, Agile, Jenkins, Grunt, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/ XHTML, XML, Moodle. PHP/Drupal Developer Proaudiostar - New York, NY June 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities  • Programmed client-side functionality using jQuery.  • Used PHP Soap client to get data from data services.  • Integrated social networking APIs.  • Involving in Database and server-side Maintenance. Modified the source code according to the requirement using Zend framework.  • Used Linux command line environment and other tools related to the LAMP stack  • Developed Contact Fill Application using Drupal and installation and integration of the Application online.  • Developed PHP based server-side API using Zend framework and implemented MVC architecture  • Created the User Management for different user administrators such as Site Administrator and Site Users  • Created Drupal modules for Activity log and Service Reporting System.  • Cloud Computing: Migration and maintaining Drupal sites in Acquia Server.  • Used various Drupal tools including Drush, Memcache, Views and CCK and Developed Custom modules and Drupal templates.  • Involved in the development using Drupal, AWS and PHP.  • Implemented Store pickup, one step checkout, Store locator functionalities using extensions.  • Worked with cross functional teams to support customer requests.  • Provided production support, and bug fixing.    Environment: PHP, JavaScript, Drupal7, Drupal8, HTML, CSS, Ajax, CakePHP, SVN, Eclipse, JQuery, MYSQL, Zend Framework. Senior PHP Developer i95Dev Store - Jersey City, NJ January 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities  • Developed a custom extension "Email A Cart" using Magento & PHP Zend Framework which features  * Sharing favorite shopping cart details via an e-mail, sharing individual products of the cart with friends  • Built a custom extension "Salesperson" using Magento & Zend Framework where  * Admins can - Create or Update Salesperson User Accounts, Assign Salesperson to a Customer or an Order, manage commissions to the salesperson.  * Salesperson can view and create - Customer, Order, Invoice and Shipment Information for records associate with them.  • Developed a feature to view inventory and product information using Zend Framework.  • Created better online proposals with Magneto's Advanced Sales Quotes extension.  • Developed cart2quote to create, send & manage quotes.  • Built user friendly forms to submit new quote requests to the store.  • Developed the subscription & renewal feature using Magento.  • Worked with Internal Clients for business objectives, project scope and the requirements of the project.    Environment: Magento, PHP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax, SVN, Eclipse, JQuery, MYSQL, Zend Framework. Senior Software Engineer Ascend Learning - Boston, MA October 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities  • Built design team's UX wireframes and mockups into responsive, interactive UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and ReactJS.  • Worked with ES6 features, Babel as transpiler, and Webpack for building the modules.  • Used Bootstrap grid for responsive layouts on different screens sizes.  • Used Axios to send asynchronous HTTP request to REST endpoints and perform CRUD operations.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be reused.  • Configured Web pack to execute linters, pre/post-processors, tests, transpires, etc. Based on build target.  • Employed GIT for code coordination.  • Used NPM package manager to install the third-party libraries.    Environment: ReactJS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Babel, Webpack, Axios, GIT, JIRA, WebStorm IDE. PHP Developer Farmers Insurance Group - Woodland Hills, CA July 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Build code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  • Created web services using WTP tool plugin to the eclipse IDE which is deployed as a separate application using Maven scripts.  • Used DOJO for Ajax Support and used JSON for DOM objects  • Report Generation, Unit testing using PHP Unit, System, Integration and Performance testing of the application and its components.  • Excellent procedural skills and improving Object Oriented skills.  • Proficiency in Prototype, Module Design, User Interface Design, and Integration of PHP components.  • Installing and Configuring Eclipse and Web sphere application Server.  • Written JUNIT test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client-side validations  • Developed JSP pages for presentation layer (UI) using Struts with client-side validations using Struts Validator framework/ JavaScript.  • Set up JBoss Server, Configured MySQL Cluster in Linux OS and installed OpenCall XDMS.  • Write PHP Scripts for application logic and access database (MySQL) layer  • Wrote various PHP scripts in the header, footer, multiple contact pages, etc.  • Template Modifications in the twenty eleven themes including setting up MYSQL Database for configuration.  • Designed interfaces in Photoshop, Flash, NotePad++, Corel Paint Shop X2, Image Ready &Word press.  • Maintained and developed e-commerce website using PHP-based framework Magento, jQuery, HTML and CSS.  • Developed complex Web based UI using Struts Ajax and JavaScript.  • Responsible for both back-end programming in PHP and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, Jquery libraries, and other technologies.  • Designed databases and structures for various Web sites.  • Involved with Zend module development and customization.  • Worked on PHP5, HTML/CSS, Ajax/JavaScript, SVN, GIT and MySQL and Apache, demonstrating vast LAMP architecture experience.    Environment: PHP, Linux, Apache, MySQL, LAMP, Word press, Magento, HTML, Ajax, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, and Git. Education Bachelor's Skills Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, REACTJS, PHP, SVN, CSS, ECLIPSE, jQuery, DATABASE, MYSQL, ORACLE, RESTFUL SERVICES, SOAP, UI, LINUX, WORDPRESS, MAC Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Operating System: Windows, Linux, Mac OSX  • Web Technologies: ReactJS, Magento 1, Magento 2, PHP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, CakePHP, Zend Framework, Drupal, WordPress, NodeJS  • Web Service: SOAP, RESTful services  • IDE'S/Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans, WebStorm, SOAP UI  • Database: Oracle, MySQL  • Version Controls: GIT, SVN