Analyst Analyst Analyst - TransUnion Wheeling, IL * A result driven IT professional with 4+ years of reasonable experience in Data Analysis, Design, OLTP (Batch Processing, Online Processing), OLAP, ETL, Data warehousing, Data mining, DBMS and Data Modeling using Confidential SQL Server 2012/2008R2 /2008/2005, SSIS, SSRS and SSAS, Ab Initio - GDE 3.2.7, Express>IT and Control Center.  * Proficient knowledge of Data Warehousing methodologies and concepts, including star schemas, snowflakes schemas, ETL processes, dimensional modeling and reporting tools.  * Proficient in writing complex T-SQL (DDL, DML), new features like CTE, Ranking Functions, TOP(n), PIVOT, XML PATH, SQL, Physical, logical database design and Performance tuning.  * Experience in configuration and maintain Report Manager and Report Server for SSRS, Deployed and Scheduled the Reports in Report Manager.  * Developed OLTP system (s) and involved in creating facts, dimensions and Star Schema representation for the data mart.  * Expertise in OLAP and OLAP Cubes in SSAS.  * Experience in Ad-hoc reports, data driven subscription reports by using Report Builder.  * Expert in creating and developing reports using tools like POWER BI, Tableau, IBM Watson Analytics and SAP Business Objects.  * Created DAX commands on POWER BI desktop to transform the data and create rich visuals. Published the dashboards on the Power BI Server and scheduled refresh as per the business requirements.  * Created reports using Tabular models, calculated measures and columns, different types of Slicers, Hierarchies.  * Excellent understanding of Big Data tools - Hadoop Architecture and underlying Hadoop framework including Storage Management, Map Reduce, Spark and Hive.  * Experience in handling the Autosys jobs in LINUX environment, scheduling the jobs and debugging the jobs in case of any issues. Work Experience Analyst TransUnion - Chicago, IL November 2017 to Present * Work closely with the Scrum team members to clarify the requirements, ensure testability, automate ability and provide feedback on design.  * Responsible for gathering the functional requirements from the Business Analysts and create use cases based on the requirements.  * Involvement in data activities like maintaining data, generating new data and masking or shuffling the production data using TDM in Express IT tool.  * Configuring and monitoring the Autosys jobs on Ab Initio Control Center, which is a browser based software centralizes the monitoring, configuration and control of all Ab Initio assets and applications in your operations environment.  * Creation of test data for validating the data using Express>IT (Ab Initio) tool by defining the DML (Record format) and other conditions of the project.  * Creation of Tableau reports on UDA Stats and Thresholds, which is used by various internal teams. Writing complex SQL queries to extract the data from the production database for the creation of reports. Publishing the report on the production server.  * Functional testing of new applications on-boarded by the company through Universal Data Acquisition (UDA) team. Extensive usage of ETL tool - Ab Initio Graphical Development Environment (GDE) . This involves creation of customized graphs using various components which compares, masks or transforms the data based on requirements.  * Creation of scripts for automated testing using UNIX and AUTOSYS to ensure high availability and highly scalable applications which are used by both internal and external customers.  * Being a certified SAFe (Scaled Agile Framework) practitioner, defined and planed the Program Initiatives (PI) objectives for the team in every 3 months.  Environment: Ab Initio, Express > IT, Putty v0.62, SQL, UNIX, AUTOSYS, Jenkins, Squirrel SQL Client, FileZilla 3.14.1 BI Developer Virtue Group - Atlanta, GA February 2017 to November 2017 * Involve in Planning, Defining and Designing data based on business requirements and provide documentation.  * Actively involved in the complete software development life cycle (SDLC) for a design of database for new Financial Accounting System.  * Involved in updating functional requirement document after development and created documentation for deployment team.  * Deploy SSIS Package into Production and used Package configuration to export various package properties to make package environment independent.  * Extracted the OLAP cube data into Power BI and applied DAX commands to manipulate the data. Created various Power BI reports and published them on to the server.  * Created executive dashboards on the Power BI service by selecting the appropriate reports.  * Organized dashboards in Power BI to analyze the revenue, expense over various attributes of employee, project, time and location dimension.  * Scheduled a job in SQL Server Agent to run on daily basis and create log files and monitored the Errors in Error log file.  * Exported and imported data from Flat file, CSV file, Excel to/from SQL Server Database using SSIS.  * Worked with DDL, DML, and DTL statements in T-SQL using CREATE, ALTER, DROP, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, SELECT, FROM, WHERE, ORDER BY, and GROUP BY.  Environment: SQL Server 2008R2 Enterprise Edition, SQL, T-SQL, MS Access, MS Excel, Windows 2003 server, PL/ SQL, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, Hyperion. R-Studio, Tableau Desktop and Power Query August 2015 to December 2016 on Social Media Platforms - Twitter and Facebook  * Twitter and Facebook data scraping using R-Studio, Tableau Desktop and Power Query  * Data Cleansing using R language and Power Pivot - DAX commands  * Performed Lexicon analysis on the data extracted to analyze the sentimental behavior on the data.  * Created visualizations on the analyzed data using Tableau, Power BI - Data Gateway and IBM Watson Analytics.    * Business Intelligence on Adventure Works data  * Performed ETL using SSIS to extract data from the source data, cleanse and transform the data and load it to SQL Server Management Studio. Good Knowledge on Data Warehousing and Data Marts.  * Created SSIS packages to perform multiple transformations like Data Conversion, Derived Column, SCD, Look up, CDC, Error logging, Merge, Package configuration and Deployment.  * Developed SSAS project, which includes creating OLAP cubes (Star and Snowflake schemas) - Kimball Methodology and multi-dimensional modeling.  * Created SSRS reports from the SSAS cubes which included tabular and matrix reports. Created reports like Cascaded reports, drill down reports, Sub reports by passing parameters.  * Created executive dashboards on the Power BI service by selecting the appropriate reports. Associate Software Engineer Tata Consultancy Services - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2013 to May 2015 * Collection of the business requirements from the clients and translating them as technical specs and design docs for development.  * Responsible for keeping information up-to-date, verifying quality of the data, and ensuring it is properly maintained.  * Partnered with Business stakeholders and Senior Executives with the goal of providing them the ability to make decisions and gain insights through data visualization reports and operational reports.  * Works with internal stakeholders & third party vendors to develop the data governance models / standards as well as the ETL process based on the models.  * Created and deployed complex queries like Stored Procedures, Views, Functions, Triggers and Jobs using SQL Server 2012, 2016.  * Designed SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages to extract data from Excel and CSV files and load it into SQL Server Data Warehouse.  * Created various SSIS packages to perform transformations like Derived column, Data Conversion, Conditional Split, Look-up, Merge, Bulk Insert, SCD.  * Created logs for ETL load at package level and task level to log number of records processed by each package and each task in a package using SSIS.  * Scheduled SSIS tasks by creating jobs in SQL Server Agent and constantly supervised the jobs.  * Created data source views and OLAP cubes (star and snow flake schemas) using SSAS to perform pre-calculations on the Fact table and store the data in SSAS database.  * Created and processed KPIs in SSAS to define and measure the progress of the business. Created new measures which are stored inside the cube to increase the performance of the cube.  Environment: Tableau Desktop 9.0, 8.3, Tableau server 9.0, 8.3 windows server 2008, Oracle 10g, Microsoft Excel, MS Access, MS SQL, Photoshop, Team Foundation Server. Education Bachelors in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Vignan University May 2013 Masters in Management Information Systems Northern Illinois University Skills Ms access, Sql server, Oracle, Postgres, Sql, Ssrs, Tableau, Power bi, Tableau desktop, Ab initio, Abinitio, Analysis services, Python, Reporting tools, Unix, Java, Html5, Excel, Bi, Integration