Software/.Net Developer <span class="hl">Software</span>/.Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> .Net Developer - BBVA Compass Bank Edison, NJ 7+ years of extensive experience working with Microsoft .Net Framework on Analysis, Designing and developing applications including Web Forms, Web Services, Class Libraries and Windows Forms.  • Expertise in developing application with .NET Framework 4.5 ASP.Net, MVC4, MVVM, C#.Net, ADO.Net, and SQL Server 2012.  • Hands on experience in client side development using technologies such as Angular JS, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, XML, JSON, HTML5, CSS3.  • Experience in designing Razor views.  • Experience in designing and branding utilizing Server Controls, User Controls, Data Grid controls, Form Validation controls, Custom controls and CSS.  • Hands on Experience in creating and hosting SOAP Web Services, WCF Services and Web API (RESTful Service).  • Extensive experience in SQL Server Database Design, Database Maintenance, and Developing Complex queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Rules, Views, Indexes using T-SQL and PL/SQL.  • Good Exposure in using LINQ in Object, XML Document and Database Objects.  • Expertise in using ADO.NET objects to access databases. Worked on disconnected model using Dataset and SQLDataAdapter.  • Worked on ORM tools like Entity Framework and LinqToSQL.  • Experience in using Language Integrated Query (LINQ) in Web pages to retrieve and modify data.  • Expertise in developing application using ASP.Net MVC framework to higher testability.  • Used Microsoft Unit Test Framework for Unit testing.  • Extensive knowledge on developing applications using MVVM, and MVC designing patterns.  • Experience in developing Custom Reports and different types of Tabular, Matrix, Ad-hoc and distributed reports in multiple formats using Microsoft Report Viewer and SSRS.  • Working experience in using version control tools like TFS, VSS and maintaining project document using MS SharePoint.  • Experience on third party controls toolkit like Telerik and Kendo UI, Intersoft, DevExpress AJAX Extension Toolkit.  • Worked following Agile methodology in SDLC.  • Highly organized and efficient to manage multiple tasks.  • Excellent communication and writing skill. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software/.Net Developer BBVA Compass Bank - Birmingham, AL September 2015 to Present Project: Workstation Portal System    Project Description: BBVA Bank is one of the nation's most dynamic financial services organizations. BBVA offers a wide range of financial products and services. The company serves his customers in personal and commercial banking and wealth management. In this project, BBVA Bank developed an intranet banking application, "The Workstation Portal System" which involves in enabling bankers to search client and position details under a secure environment. This application enables bankers to perform basic banking operations like Balance Enquiry, Online Bill Payments, Automatic Savings Plan and Fund Transfer between the existing accounts.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Development phase of all modules  • Actively involved in enhancing the ASP.NET based web application using C#.NET and MVC4  • Used JavaScript, JQuery along with Angular JS for client side validations.  • Used HTMLHelpers to design View along with razor.  • Utilized existing ADO.Net for data access. Enhance data access with Entity Framework technology. Entity Framework used extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ.  • Utilized LINQ to interact with the SQL Server database 2012 for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using Entity Data Model.  • Developed WCF service to enable effective communication between different applications in the organization.  • Implemented Generic classes for Business Layer and Data Access Layer using C#.  • Development of complex stored procedures, functions, indexes and multi-join SQL queries using SQL Server for extracting, inserting and manipulating the data and display on Grid view controls and dropdown list boxes and User controls  • Developed Restful services for manipulating database in data access layer.  • Participate in hosting WCF service in WAS along with the hosting team.  • Used Microsoft Report viewer control to create RDLC Reports dynamically with parameters.  • Using TFS for version control and code repository, and SharePoint for User document and project document sharing.  • Using HP Quality Center 11 to communicate and track the defects during various phases of testing.  • Worked on Agile Methodology process with four week iterations and delivered the stories worked on within timelines.  • Performing Unit Testing and Integration Testing for the application and coordinating with performance testing team for load testing the application.  • Coordinated with the release management and business user testing teams on the successful roll-out of the applications.    ENVIRONMENT: Visual Studio 2013, .Net Framework 4.5, C#.Net, ASP.NET4.5, MVC 4, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, XML, WCF, SOAP, HTTP, Web API (Restful services) LINQ, SSRS, SQL Server 2012, TFS, HP Quality Center. Net Developer Deloitte - Camp Hill, PA March 2014 to April 2015 Project: Corporate Claim Management System    Project Description: Corporate Claim Management System, (CCMS) works independently as well and is used by other insurance systems. This system is responsible to process the claim and pay the insurance claims submitted by corporate customers. Claim application is also used to manage the inbound and outbound communications including phone calls, scanned images and faxed Images. Claims are created via Web claim submission, Fax Scanning & Imaging and external feeds for further processing like claim verification, confirmation and claim payment.    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in requirement gathering, functional and technical specifications.  • Worked in the development of all three components. UI (MVC Razor pages - client side), view models (MVC3 data along with separate BLL -server side) and controllers (MVC C# classes for presenting view models to views).  • Created MVC 'Areas' in the project and routing experience with Global.asax.  • Developed complete 'Lookup' module of the Staff Portal application using JavaScript, HTML, JQuery, C #, VS 2012 and .NET framework MVC.  • Worked in the development of Form Based authentication. Authentication was implemented to allow different types of users with different roles and permissions.  • AJAX is used to call HTTP SOAP web service.  • Used Entity framework to create models and mappings. Used LINQ expressions to filter the data in business objects.  • Used RequiredField Validator and Regular Expression Validator in entity model.  • Created Tables, Views in SQL Server 2012 to access and manipulate the data from the database server.  • Analysis of Oracle Sql and VB6 for migration of the existing application.  • Developed a WCF service which were used for interoperability between applications using SOAP and XML.  • Create URL based reports using SSRS and host the reports in SQL Server Reporting server  • Used Agile Methodology for rapid and more disciplined development during implementation.  • Discussing specifications and functionality issues with Business Analyst and participated in daily Scrum calls and discussions with product owners.  • Resolving production support tickets and supporting releases in Production environments.    ENVIRONMENT: C#.Net, ASP.Net, .NET Framework 4.0, ADO.Net, Entity Framework, LINQ, Visual Studio.NET 2012, SQL Server 2012, WCF, Oracle, UML, HTML, JQuery, CSS, SSRS, JavaScript, Angular JS, AJAX and HTML, TFS Software Developer NiSource - Columbus, OH September 2012 to February 2014 Project: Asset Repository System    Project Description: Asset Repository System is the centralize repository for all company assets. This application maintained for all types of assets e.g. Poles, Service boxes, Vaults, Manholes, Equipment & Attachment etc. Each asset has its own information. All other application need to refer assets information frequently, so this provides as a service provider application. The goal of Asset Repository is to establish a foundation of data to be used as the foundation of all other consumer application. Asset Repository house all fixed point asset information within electrical operations within a hierarchy consisting of facilities, components and characteristics. The data is used for activities including maintenance and inspections, engineering estimates, and field planning. This also allow users to create and update asset information with a constant information structure.  Responsibilities:  • Interact with business user for data gathering, and analysis.  • Involved in interacting with client for new requirements and maintaining existing system.  • Developed C# classes to implement business layer logic.  • Developed SOAP based web service using ASP.NET  • Published and consumed web services using SOAP and UDDI SDK's.  • Interact with Service hosting team during hosting of Web service  • Designed ASP.NET Web forms in C#.NET for ASP.NET  • Create and execute SQL stored procedures.  • Used ADO.NET to perform database manipulations.  • Used stored procedures and views.  • Implemented a Data Access Layer module that ensures proper utilization of database resources.  • Used ERWIN for data modelling in design phase.  • Used Microsoft Report viewer web control to display RDLC Reports dynamically with parameters.  • Involved in Design, Documentation, unit testing, integration testing and code review.  ENVIRONMENT: C#.Net, ASP.Net, .NET Framework 3.5, ADO.Net, Visual Studio.NET 2010, SQL Server 2008, WCF, Web services, SSRS, HTML, CSS NET Developer Cytel Statistical Software and Services Pvt. Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra March 2009 to August 2012 Project: Patient Randomization System    Project Description: The Patient Randomization System was developed for pharmaceutical client. The application provides gathering patient data, utilize this data in randomization. This application plays an important role in process of clinical trials. A small testing tool works on top of this application that generates huge patient data and automate the randomization system by invoking the web services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, implementation and testing phases of the SDLC.  • Involved in implementing the randomization algorithm as a web services.  • Developed Web Service Test Client in ASP.NET and VB.NET  • Involved in Oracle database design and creating stored procedures and views.  • Implemented Data Access Layer to perform CRUD Operation. And implement BLL.  • Responsible in designing the Web Forms for the Testing UI tool. This tool was designed to create patient data and pass to the web services and then verify the result.  • Fully responsible in designing (automated testing project) independent testing tool using EXCEL and VB Script. This tool generates huge amount of data and consume web services and displays the result.  • Involved in unit testing and integrated testing.    Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2008, ASP.NET, VB.NET, Oracle, SOAP UI, Web Service Studio, IIS, Excel with VBA Macros    Project: StatXact and LogXact  StatXact offers more than 150 tests and procedures for complex algorithms of modern statistical analysis into a validated software package with a user-friendly interface. LogXact helps in conducting regression analysis over multiple covariates. It works with small sample sizes or missing data sets and provide simple and accurate solutions for such data. Users of the software can be confident of in their results derived from LogXact's advanced regression techniques.    Responsibilities:  • Fully involved in enhancing the sub module. This module provides graphical representation of the result data for regression tests. Different types of graphs were used in this. This output result in graph were simple and easy to understand the outcome of the tests.  • Used .NET Windows Forms to design UI.  • Worked with .NET Chart Controls to display graphical result.  • Fully responsible for upgrading the system onto .NET.  • Performed unit testing and integrated testing on this module along with existing System.  • Responsible in porting existing business logic into .NET and integrate successfully with UI developed in .NET.  • Worked on enhancing the system.  • Used TestTrack tool for bug reporting and defect tracking.  • Fully involved in batch Build the application and pass on to the testing team.  • Coordinated with the QA team and make sure all the functionality of the application is being tested.    ENVIRONMENT: Visual Studio.NET 2008, VC++, C++, VSS, Windows Forms. Net programmer NETCOM Technologies - Bangalore, Karnataka May 2008 to February 2009 Project: Budgeting System  Project Description: The Budgeting System plays an important role in every phase of product development. The system helps in budget detailing. System works in every phase to plan the budget, track the budgets, and reschedule the plan to fit in the budget. This system is Management decision support system.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in different stages of SDLC.  • ASP.NET was used to build the Front end user and C# was used for business layer and data layer.  • Involved in designing and implementing Project Module, Budget Module.  • Designed Web Forms using different ASP.NET Server Controls, Validation Controls.  • ADO.NET was extensively used by Project module and Budget module.  • Dataset, Data Adapter, Data Reader and other ADO.NET connectivity classes were extensively used.  • Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers were used effectively.  XML SOAP Web Services are exposed to provide the Project details to Vendor applications.  • Participate in web service hosting along with hosting and deployment team.  • "Windows Authentication" was used to authorize users.  • Coordinated with the QA team and make sure all the functionality of the application is tested.    ENVIRONMENT: Visual Studio.NET 2005, .NET Framework 2.0, Windows Forms, ASP.NET, C#, ASP.NET Server Controls, ADO.NET, SQL Server, XML Web Services, Stored Procedures, Triggers, IIS. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Object Oriented Programming, UML  .Net Technologies: Asp.Net, MVC, MVVM, C#, ADO.Net, LINQ, Entity Framework, WCF, ORM  IDE: Microsoft Visual Studio 2013/2012/2010/2008.  Programming Languages: C, C++, C#, VB.Net, VC++  Web Technologies: HTML 5, XHTML, CSS, XAML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, IIS 6.0/7.0/8.0/10, Angular JS, XML, XAML  Web Services SOAP XML Web Services, WCF, RESTful Services (WEB API)  Databases SQL Server 2005/2008/2008 R2/2012, MYSQL, MS Access, Oracle, ERWIN Design Tool  Third Party Tool Telerik, Kendo UI, Bootstrap 3.0, Intersoft WebUI(WebGrid 7), DevExpress (AJAX Toolkit)  Reporting Tools: SSRS, Microsoft Report Viewer  Windows Platforms: Windows 7/Vista/XP/2000/98, Windows Server 2008/2003.  Version Control Tools: TFS 2012, VSS, Microsoft SharePoint 2013  Application Server: IIS 7/8/10, SQL Server Reporting Service