Consultant/Contractor Consultant/Contractor Live to innovate Guaynabo, PR Interested in bringing innovation and technology where I go. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant/Contractor Variant - San Juan, PR August 2018 to Present Worked as a Software Developer Contractor for various clients in a variety of industries. Provided solutions to complex problems to reduce the amount of work needed to complete daily tasks. Updated various web development projects to use modern frameworks while eliminating redundant processes and improving workflows. Associate Engineer Johnson & Johnson MET - Guaynabo, PR February 2017 to March 2018 OIBI SME - Working on a visualization tool to enable bleeding of slow and obsolete parts to avoid and reduce daily inventory costs and inventory investment.  Lean Edit SME - Recorded a changeover process for analysis to determine reduction opportunities.  Changeover - Meeting with suppliers and a diverse expertise group to reduce a 48 hr C/O to 24 hrs. Software Developer Johnson & Johnson Consumer - Las Piedras, PR August 2015 to December 2016 Developed a mobile application with a content management system to improve interactions between Johnson & Johnson Puerto Rico Campus employees.  Mobility SME - Distributed a series of applications on iPad, including SAP, at the site which yield a  50% reduction in gowning used by mechanics and 30% reduction in time wasted.  Automation - Created interfaces for systems and assisted in the validation of various projects.  Designed mechanic schedule to reduce planning time by more than 90%.  Leadership Forum - Actively participated as a core team member in the technology branch working with virtual reality and 360 videos among other assignments. Webmaster CRC UPRM - Mayagüez, PR April 2015 to December 2016 Created a website for the Construction Research Conference held in Puerto Rico in 2016. Website  was developed using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and PHP. Software Developer TAIP UPRM - Mayagüez, PR September 2013 to December 2016 Developed a cross platform mobile application (Transportation Automated Inspection Process) that  enables road inspectors to complete their standard inspection in a timely and orderly manner using  user-friendly software. Phase 2: developed an administrator portal for project status tracking (S- curve) and automated administrative tasks. Multiple papers published. Research Associate SaferSim UPRM - Mayagüez, PR October 2014 to July 2015 Co-designed and developed a cockpit driving simulator for research. Led the development of tools for simulation output data analysis. Drove the development of a 3D model of the express lane  located at the northern part of the island of Puerto Rico. Multiple papers published. Education Some college Skills HTML5 (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), PHP (5 years), GRAPHIC DESIGN (5 years), BRANDING (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Apple Office (5 years) Links http://julio.etkilabs.com http://www.linkedin.com/in/julio-valdes Certifications/Licenses FAA - UAS PILOT May 2018 to Present Able to comercially fly drones within the USA Assessments Business Math — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to use basic math to solve problems in a business context. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wgfhcjmjhm-cxls3 Graphic Design — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qk6gw4utfc7yosgk Workplace English — Expert August 2019 Understanding spoken and written English in work situations. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hcozjvmrsrdcclsm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  Web development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, SQL, and PHP  Competent in the area of graphic design and branding with Photoshop or Illustrator  Programming Languages (Proficient): JavaScript, C, Java, and Python