Application System Analyst III Application System Analyst III Application System Analyst III Miami, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application System Analyst III Beacon Health Options - Miami, FL 2016 to 2019 • Develop Java Extracts/Imports for File Connect System.  • Troubleshooting daily volume of tickets/issues.  • Perform healthcare data analysis/ queries for Oracle and DB2 database.  • Utilized Jira for project tracking and documentation.  • Maintained and supported File Connect Claim processing system. Java Developer Trax USA ? - Miami, FL 2015 to 2016 • Developed Java EE Soap web services specifications and modifications.  • Debug, compile and test Java web services modules into deployment executables for Tomcat, Glassfish and Web logic Application Servers.  • Debug, compile and test Oracle PL/SQL database packages, triggers and store procedures.  • Developed NodeJs micro services and deployed into AWS cloud.  • Provide technical assistance and troubleshooting to customers interfacing external web services. Solutions Engineer Giganetworks ? - Miami, FL 2014 to 2015 • Developed a C++ GUI for IP reverse lookup and log analysis.  • Developed a Frontend with Microsoft Access 2010 for the license renewal process.  • Supported virtual machines on VMware Exsi.  • Setup Asterisk VoIP server for Cisco phones for 10+ end users.  • Setup Palo Alto firewalls, Bluecoat proxies and Aruba wireless devices.  • Developed a back end C++ application for filtering proxy requests. Software Developer University of Holguín ? Cuba, Holguin 2009 to 2014 • Developed a relational database management system for Java Development Kit Embedded database (JavaDB).  • Responsible for Network lab.  • Migrated 100+ project from Windows to Linux OS.  • Implemented a Nagios monitoring server to network services of the central node of the University of Holguin.  • Developed a C++/Matlab application for the refinement of 3D surfaces. Education Master Applied Mathematics and Informatics for Administration ? University of Holguín Bachelor Degree in Computer Science ? University of Holguin Links http://linkedin.com/in/miguel-abellon Assessments Problem Solving — Completed July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bfez8ze7vxergdr3 Critical Thinking — Proficient July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yittdbfdpfmadpad Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.