Java Senior Software Engineer Java Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Java Senior Software Engineer - Quest Diagnostics Mason, OH • Over 8 years of experience in IT industry in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Software Applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Expertise in software development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile development and Rapid Application Development.  • Expertise in application development using JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Experience in Spring Framework such as Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring ORM, Spring Boot, SpringJDBC, Micro-Services.  • Expertise in building SOAP and RESTful implementation of using Jersey, Apache Axis, Spring Web Services.  • Experience with JMS and Active MQ.  • Experience in developing web applications using technologies like GWT, HTML, Java Script, CSS, JQuery.  • Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  • Expertise in J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Façade, Adapter, Builder , Singleton etc.  • Experience with PL/SQL programming, Creating stored procedures, indexes, views and triggers.  • Hands on experience in the implementation of Core Java SE 8 concepts like Streams API, Lambda functions, Generics, Time API, Functional Interfaces Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling and Collection API.  • Experience in ANT, Maven build tools and also expertise in testing tools like JUnit.  • Experience in designing and implementing Web, Client/Server and N-Tier systems using Java/J2EE technology.  • Good Knowledge on Test Driven Development (TDD) techniques  • Expert in implementing dynamic web applications using Application Servers like JBOSS, Apache Tomcat deploying in various environments like Windows, UNIX and Linux.  • Extensive experience in design and development of Databases Oracle 10g, and SQL Server.  • Good knowledge in using Sonar and Jenkins.  • Strong experience in Configuration tools like GIT, Perforce , CVS, SVN,  • Experience in RDBMS using Oracle 11g , MySQL and Timesten.  • Worked on systems covering various vertical domains like HealthCare , Finance, Telecom.  • Extensive knowledge of OOPS, OOAD, UML concepts (Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Deployment Diagrams etc.)  • Strong team player, ability to work independently and in a team as well, ability to adapt to a rapidly changing environment, commitment towards learning.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills. Work Experience Java Senior Software Engineer Quest Diagnostics - Mason, OH June 2016 to Present Project: Quanum (Labs & Meds)    Care360 is a family of MedPlus products which support the Quest Diagnostics core business for managing health information, primarily for physician offices and laboratory testing. It maintains all the patient related health information such as their medications, vaccines, tests, visits etc. This portal used by the health care providers to maintain patient related information. Using this portal providers can directly send prescriptions to the pharmacies.    Responsibilities:  • Used Micro service architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting REST calls.  • Used Maven and Jenkins to automate the build and deploy process and perforce was used for project management and version management.  • Worked on the micro services for sending prescription related calls to external provider.  • Spring boot and Java 8 based development. Used Java 8 streams, lambda, functional programming.  • Preparing design for requirements and developing the system.  • Analyze existing functionality/code and make enhancements as per requirements.  • Creating bean classes using EJB3 and configuring queues.  • Creating work managers around the APIs to restrict the number of threads.  • Working on UI using technologies like GWT, Javascript and HTML.  • Unit Testing with Mockito, Testing Webservices with SoapUI and Splunk verification.  • Storing and retrieving data using Oracle through Spring JDBC and hibernate.  • Creation of test data and testing using Junit, Mokito. Integrate these test cases with continuous build and deployment using Jenkins.  • Took part in the build deployment process at each month.  • Perform peer level code reviews to maintain quality of code.    Environment: Agile, Java 8, Spring, Hibernate, Lombok, SpringBoot, RESTful web services, Junit, Maven, GIT, Rally, log4J, Microservices, GWT,Tomcat 7.0, Weblogic12c. Java Developer Envisage Information Systems - Ithaca, NY October 2015 to June 2016 Project: STAC/MVAS Eligibility    The Eligibility Rules, or Attributes, are the "directions" in place by which the system is able to determine when and how an Eligibility Date Calculation is to be determined. The rules are setup via the Edit Eligibility Attribute Screen on the MVAS Admin Site. The Eligibility Calculations should be thought of as a combination of several different types of Eligibility Calculations, instead of just one calculation.    Responsibilities:  • Design, Architecture and Develop efficient software applications for retirement industry plans primarily 403b using Java and Java Web Services for the application development and Oracle 11g for database.  • Create system level architecture design, technical design documents and communicate that design to other developers.  • Identify and implement new algorithms/patterns and technologies, propose ideas to team and management.  • Developing the UI component architecture and API for application integration framework using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Meetings with client to understand, create, review and approve requirements and design documentations.  • Used Folio for story creation and defect logging along with Quality Center.  • Work in Agile methodology, Participate in daily stand up and biweekly sprint planning session.  • Handling production issues, identifying and work on data fixes necessary for production.  • Application developer for Common Remitter Team, Core team as part of Multi-Vendor Administrative System (MVAS).  • Designed and developed numerous server side features/enhancement using Core Java, Multithreading, spring, Hibernate, Ant Scripting.  • Designed and developed numerous tables, views, stored procedures and complex queries using PL/SQL.  • Designed and implemented fully automated build and deployed scripting using Jenkins (Hudson).  • Wrote JUnit test cases with Mock to validate business logic implemented to follow the Test Driven Development approach.  • Developed software applications for retirement industry plans primarily 403b using Java and Java Web Services for the application development and Oracle 11g for database.    Environment: Spring IOC, Hibernate3.0, Oracle, Java, J2EE, Servlets, HTML, CSS3, Jquery , JavaScript, SVN ,SOAP, Tomcat, Maven, ANT, XML, JSON, JUnit, Eclipse,Sonar, Jenkins, Putty , Winscp.    Tata Consultancy Services, Bloomington, MN USA. Web Developer Century Link MN November 2013 to October 2015 Location: Minneapolis  Project: NCMS (Network Change Management System)  In the course of providing network services, various teams and departments may need to improve the network infrastructure arising at the request of the customers, vendors or other sources, preventive maintenance upgrades identified during the careful observations during maintenance or due to a repair call received by the network repair centers.NCMS in its early stages is expected to provide all these features enforcing appropriate work flow and help the Network Services to organize many such change management projects around the strict SLA bound maintenance schedules.  While helping the network services in organizing these projects and tasks, NCMS will provide appropriate notifications to individuals and groups that must be involved and progress notifications to interested parties. Even in the early release, NCMS is aligning with the next generation systems to reduce the duplication of data by accessing the appropriate systems of record for the data needed.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared Functional and Technical design documents (Low level and High level).  • Extensively using Spring Core, and Hibernate.  • Used JAXB for converting java objects to Xml.  • Used DOM parser to parse Xml files.  • Wrote Web Service provider using JAX-WS to insert data into database.  • Tested Web Service call using SOAPUI tool as a part of unit-testing.  • Used JMS for posting data asynchronously from application to other application.  • Used LDAP for authentication of users.  • Developing the UI component architecture and API for application integration framework using GWT.  • Prepared and executed test cases for automaton as per the system requirements.  • Extensively used Design Patterns Singleton, Factory, and Façade etc.  • Used CVS for version control and Log4j for logging.  • Used Quality Center(HP) for Bug Fixing.  • Performed unit testing for modules using JUnit.  Environment: Spring IOC, Hibernate3.0, Oracle, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS3, Perl, SVN, RESTful, JMS,REST,SOAP, Tomcat, Maven, ANT, XML, JSON, JUnit, Eclipse.    Tata Consultancy Services , Wave rock Building , Gachibowli ,Hyderabad , AP, INDIA. Java/J2EE Developer British Telecom - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2011 to September 2013 Project: Voice Logic Provisioning (VLP)  Voice Logical Provisioning (VLP) is a web-based tool and used to provide Provisioning solution for the Global Inbound service (GIS). VLP builds Routing Plan for the International and National Contact Centre customers. The Routing Plan allows the customer to more efficiently utilize their contact centers and route calls based on a variety of factors. Now VLP got renamed as Call Traffic Controller.    Here we have used one platform called as OAS (Open Application Server).This OAS platform enables Provisioning Managers to fulfill service Requests for their customers using the Intelligent Call Routing (ICR) application.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis and Design of the application.  • Created use cases, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Designed and developed web interfaces using MVC Architecture and VLP Framework.  • Involved in Writing Object Relation Mapping implementation using hibernate and hibernate mapping configuration files.  • Wrote persistence layer and business layer (Using Hibernate). Developed Action Classes.  • Responsible for the implementation of application system with core Java and GWT framework.  • Used Message Driven beans to read the messages from JMS queues for asynchronous communication.  • Used Web services, Web Processing Service (WPS), BPEL, REST extensively for Operations module. Technologies SOA, SOAP.  • Developed the data flow between many web services that communicates with the data in our application.  • Web services requests and XML data in also handled with the web services data transfer.  • Developed several Web Service stubs using Apache CXF, SOAP UI, JAX-RPC  • Document literal and integrated using SOA.  • Designed the application in such a manner to have code reusability.  • CSS for styling the HTML elements.  • Used JIRA for defects fixing and tracking.  • Designed and developed front-end GUI components using GWT, HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  • Involved extensively in writing SQL and PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Functions.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts to automate the build process.  • Used SVN as the version controller.  • Implemented log4j for checking application logs.  • Involved in Unit and Integration Testing after each development Life cycle.  • Deployed application in Web Logic Application server in pre-production environments.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts 2.0.6, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, JSP, HTML5, Servlets, XML, UML, JUnit, Jboss, GWT, Servlets, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0 CSS3,,REST, JMS, SOAP, Hibernate, Maven, ANT and JavaScript Education Bachelor of Education in Electronics and Communication Engineering GITAM University - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh 2007 to 2011 Skills Eclipse, Java, Spring, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Struts, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Svn, Xml, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows XP, Windows  Languages C++, SQL, PL/SQL, Java8.  Java Skills JDBC3.0, Servlet2.4, JSP2.0  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, CSS, JMS  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate3.0, GWT ,Junit,ANT, Maven  RDBMS Oracle 10g, MySQL  Tools Edit Plus, SOAPUI , Postman SQL Developer , CaliberRM ,JIRA, Sonar, Jenkins, FabSoft, Rally  Web/App Servers Tomcat 5.5/6.0, JBOSS 5, Weblogic 12c  Version Control tools GIT , SVN, CVS , Perforce.  Web Technologies XML, JSON, SOAP, RESTful.  IDES/Tools Eclipse , Spring Tool Suite 3.5.1,Code Collab