Senior .Net Developer Senior .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior .Net Developer - Mitchell Martin, Inc Frisco, TX • 9+ years of IT experience as Developer and involved in Requirement Gathering & Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing, documentation, end-user training and Web-based using Microsoft Technologies.  • Professional experience in web, mobile and back end applications Analyzing, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of Client-server, Mainframe and WEB enabled applications.  • Experience in advanced JavaScript/UI frameworks like AngularJS, Bootstrap/UI, JSON, and JQuery. Work Experience Senior .Net Developer Mitchell Martin, Inc - New York, NY May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created the model using Entity Framework 6.0 using the Database First approach.  • Implemented server-side and client-side validations. Used JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Implemented page level error handling using Custom Error pages and Error logs.  • Worked on all the layers such as Presentation layer (UI), Business Logic layer and Data Access layer as a Full Stack developer.  • Made use of ASP.Net Authentication and Authorization providers for ensuring security.  • Used Entity Framework 6.0 as an Object Relational Mapper (ORM) for Database operations.  • Properly unit tested the modules to ensure all requirements are met.  • Used SQL Server 2014 to build database and tables, Stored Procedures and Triggers  • Implemented Admin Panel to updating contents and to approve user request in the application.  • Integrated ASP.NET Identity based Authentication for authenticating and authorizing users.  • Consumed REST API's by using Angular $http service. Utilized Fiddler tool to debug Web API exposed over HTTP ().  • Used EF(Entity Framework) and Web API for data retrieving from the database.  • Coded application functionality and Filters for heavy DOM manipulation. Implemented Client-side validations using built-in classes and states in Angular.  • Used AJAX Operations to load data into the view using Angular.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) by using routing Service.  • Used MVC features such as routing, controllers, action results, filter, model binders, IOC container and used dependency injection.  • Used Integrated Entity Framework 6.0 to process queries on database for faster speed and more reliability.    Environment:Visual Studio 2017, Angular 2, .Net Framework 4.5, IIS 7.0, ASP.NET MVC5, ASP.NET Web API, C#, Entity Framework 6.0, SQL Server 2016, LINQ, JSON, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap, Batarangle, ChartJS, GitLab, Jasmine Senior .Net Developer Dutech Systems Inc - Boston, MA January 2017 to 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed single page applications using Angular4, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Bootstrap and worked in an Agile (Scrum) development methodology and involved in sprint planning and review.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular4.  • Implemented responsive web design using Bootstrap and used Ng-Bootstarp based on Angular4 Components.  • Used Bootstrap to help the responsiveness of webpage and design with few custom CSS3 style sheet on elements.  • Implemented HTTP requests using Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Worked with making calls to WEB APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSON response and parse it on the UI along with DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Developed Custom Authentication, Exception Filters in Web API that handles Token based Authentication and Exceptions respectively and returns appropriate Http Status Codes.  • Used the Database first approach with the Entity Framework to generate models and the DbContext.  • Implemented Unit Testing using MSTest along with MOQ for mocking the objects.  • Debugged and tracked using Fiddler for Web API service and Jasmine to unit test the Angular project in an isolated and automated manner.    Environment: VS Code, C#, Visual Studio 2015, Angular4, Bootstrap, CSS3, JavaScript, HTML5, Web API2, Fiddler, Jasmine, SQL Server, Entity Framework, NUnit, Agile (Scrum) Software Engineer Agile Premier - Dallas, TX February 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed User Interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Angular and Bootstrap based on AWS.  • Successfully integrated data from multiple data sources including, SQL Server 2008 and legacy data delivered via message queues using ADO.Net.  • Used Web Services to access data from the Remote Application.  • Implemented Distributed computing using .NET Remoting.  • Performed Unit testing.  • Used Database first approach in Entity Framework to perform CRUD operations.  • Used LINQ and LINQ to Entities data provider for interacting with the data in the Entity Framework.  • Responsible for Designing and Developing the Reusable UI Components Like Partial View and MVC Layout View.  • Involved in building flexible UI, more user interactive and user-friendly web pages, reusable classes, functions using ASP.NET, C#, AJAX and JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Implemented JavaScript form validation using Regular Expressions, Created synchronous and Asynchronous web service invocation with JavaScript.  • Implemented security, authentication and authorization in MVC.  • Optimized the application's performance by Minification and Bundling.  • Developed RESTful web services using WEB API.  • Used serialization and Model binding in Web API.  • Actively involved in Exception Handling, Testing and Debugging in Web API.  • Created Indexes to speed up the Query process, Procedures and Cursors in SQL Server Management Studio.  • Involved in design and developing of navigations control, user controls, custom control etc.  • Involved in gathering requirement and creating prototype for the new upgrade for application.    Environment:ASP.NET 4.5, C#, MVC, 5.0 JavaScript, ADO.NET, Entity Framework core 2.0, HTML5, CSS3, XML, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, Angular 2, Bootstrap 4.0, SQL Server 2014, ADO.NET Net Developer Nitco Inc - Houston, TX August 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Multi-Tier Application using 3-layer approach, Presentation layer was developed using ASP.NET MVC5, the business layer was developed using C#, and data access layer using Entity Framework.  • Involved in gathering of requirements by interacting with analysts.  • Used Waterfall development methodology.  • Developed .Net assemblies using C#.NET (Data access and Business Logic).  • Worked on Reusable software components Design and Development.  • Developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax.  • Worked on JavaScript for Client-Side Validation.  • Used AJAX extensively with JavaScript and XML.  • Involved in designing complete database objects like Tables, Views, Stored procedures and triggers using SQL Server.  • Used ASP.NET MVC5 filters like Action Filters, Exception Filters and created custom filters to implement in controller action level and controller level.  • Implemented client-side validations using jQuery validation plugins and ASP.NET MVC5 validation at controller level using data annotations for model validations.  • Implemented CRUD functionality with Entity framework in ASP.NET MVC5 and implemented sorting, filtering and paging with Entity framework in MVC.  • Use jQuery client-side scripting for auto complete, tabs, validation, date picking, sorting, auto-submit and other functions.  • Created and optimized views for user interactions using objects of HTML Helper class, Custom Helpers.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Views, and Triggers for data manipulation, ensuring set up relations includes Indexing, Constraints and Foreign Keys.  • Maintenance and Defect Tracking Using TFS, JIRA. Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.  • Involved in testing like Unit test, Integration test, Acceptance test and Regression testing using NUnit and responsible for writing test scripts and scenarios.    Environment: ASP.NET MVC5, jQuery, JavaScript, C#, Entity Framework, WCF, JIRA, TFS, NUnit, SQL Server, HTML, CSS, Visual Studio Software Engineer Hyperion Tech LLC - Washington, DC March 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, design, architecture, programming, testing and implementation of the application.  • Performed required field, comparison, range, custom validations of the input controls of the Web Forms.  • Implemented Web services for the communication between client and server using SOAP.  • Created web pages using HTML and CSS to take advantage of the newest web techniques and styles.  • Used ADO.NET extensively for database interactions using Data Reader, Data Adapter, Data view and Datasets.  • Involved in collecting and analyzing the business requirements from the customers.  • Designed Web Forms, User Controls, AJAX Web Forms and HTML Pages using ASP.NET.  • Performed validations on Web Forms using .NET Validation Controls and JavaScript.  • Designed Web Forms using different ASP.NET Server Controls, API Validation Controls, and other third-party controls.  • Developed an ASP.NET MVC application in Visual Studio using the test-driven development (TDD) approach.  • Involved in building flexible UI, more user interactive and user-friendly web pages, reusable classes, functions using MVC, C# and JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Implemented Web Services using WCF to update the information displayed in the browser and to authenticate the current users to ensure security and information sharing.  • Implemented Dependency Injection with constructor injections for loosely coupled components using Ninject IOC container.  • Generate Entity Framework context models utilizing database first approach and built library of data access methods.  • Used RESTful service methods for create, read, update and delete form data.  • Product development is an Agile (SCRUM) methodology, where progress and task assignment are discussed in everyday meetings.  • Involved in Unit testing using MS testing and integration testing of the entire application.    Environment: ASP.NET MVC, WCF, Entity Framework, AJAX, jQuery, IIS, Agile(Scrum), Unit test, Visual Studio, SQL Server, JavaScript, C#, TDD C# Developer Innovee Consulting LLC - Atlanta, GA June 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed a custom Grid control with sorting and paging features.  • Implemented Excel to XML import functionality.  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) using Master Pages, HTML, JavaScript and CSS classes.  • Developed the Business Logic, Data Access classes and stored procedures for the assigned modules.  • Implemented server-side and client-side validations.  • Made use of ASP.Net State Management techniques like ViewState, Cookies, and Sessions.  • Developed a SOAP based WCF service for exposing certain functions to an external system.  • Used Team Foundation Server to version control the code and various artifacts.  • Created unit test cases and thoroughly tested the modules to ensure all requirements are met.  • Wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Indexes to improve the throughput of application using optimized queries.  • Prepared detailed design documents for the modules to be developed.  • Developed the User Interface using EXT.Net controls.  • Used MVC 3 architecture in the UI project to create views and controllers.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations and to call controller methods.  • Developed re-usable user controls and custom web controls.  • Implemented the business logic for the modules assigned.  • Created Interfaces for service layer and data layer classes.  • Used NHibernate for Database operations.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for Source Code Control, project related document sharing and  • team collaboration. Created the branches in TFS to facilitate the parallel development process.  • Wrote Stored Procedures to insert, update and retrieve data from SQL Server DB.    Environment: Visual Studio 2008, .NET 3.0, C#, Serviced Components, Web Services, Custom controls, XML, SQL Server 2008, VSS, Agile, Scrum Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages C#, .Net Framework(1.1, 2.0, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0), VB 6.0, HTML, XML, Java Script, C, C++, JQuery, HTML 5, CSS 3, AS.NET, VBScript ASP 3.0  Frameworks ASP.NET, ADO.NET, WCF, MVC, LINQ, IIS, ASP, CSS, TFS, AngularJS, NodeJS, JQuery.  Operating System DOS, NT/98/XP/2000/2003/, Vista/2008, Windows 2003,2008,2012,XP and Windows 7  Databases SQL Server 2005/2008/2010/2012, T-SQL, Stored Procedures, PL/SQL.  .NET Technologies ASP.NET, XML Web Services, ADO.NET, WCF, WPF and Web API, Win Forms, Web Forms Windows Services.  IDE Visual Studio 2003/2005/2008/2010/2012/2013, Notepad++    Methodologies N-tier Application, SOA, Client/Server Architecture, OOA Prototyping, Process Models Systems Integration.  Web Servers Internet Information Server (IIS), REST with WCF, SOAP, API  Version Control Tools Team Foundation Server, Test Driven Development (TDD), Visual Source Safe (VSS)  Browsers ALL ( IE, Google Chrome, Mozilla, Opera)  Markup Languages HTML, XHTML, XML, XSL, DHTML, AngularJS, Javascript, CSS