UI Developer/React JS Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span>/React JS <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer/React JS Developer - EOG Resources Houston, TX ? Have almost 9+ years of IT experience which comprises 3+ years as a React JS Developer, 3 years as a UI Developer and 1 year as Software Engineer.  ? Have ample experience in developing web pages using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, DHTML, JavaScript, React JS, J Query, JSON, Node.js, Ajax, Redux, Flex, SASS, LESS, JQUERY and Bootstrap.  ? Extensive knowledge in developing single-page applications (SPA's) using React Js.  ? Working knowledge of Web protocols and standards (HTTP HTML5/XHTML/XHTML-MP, CSS3, Web Forms, XML and XML parsers).  ? Created User Interfaces for Mobile/Tablet/Desktop using HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Good experience on customizing CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and Foundation using CSS pre-processors LESS or SASS and Compass.  ? Expertise in implementing easy to use Bootstrap plug-ins for building carousel, accordion, modal windows etc.  ? Expertise in analyzing the Document Object Model (DOM) Layout, DOM Functions, and Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  ? Expertise in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  ? Experienced in working with Redux Architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  ? Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Pleasant Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  ? Worked on the UI of a web based content management system built with React and Redux.  ? Integrated React and Redux to keep track of application state and designed Side Bar to create or destroy planets with dispatched actions that manipulate objects within canvas.  ? Designed and coded the project using React/Redux, Mongo DB, ES6, Node.js, and build tools such as Babel, Gulp and Webpack.  ? Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  ? Experienced in working with Node.JS and NPM modules like http-server, Marathon, inquirer, path, mongo DB, Micro Services, Request, Elastic Search, express luck, spark and templating engines.  ? Experience in Node environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Gulp and Groovy Bower.  ? Strong in using the Node.js, and Require.js and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web application.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Restful Web Services using AJAX and JSON.  ? Expertise in video coding by using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  ? Expertise in Restful, SOAP web services to integrate between Applications to Application.  ? Experience with front-end development with back-end system integration.  ? Proficient in using Unit.js testing framework along with Jasmine, Karma, Protractor and Mocha test runners.  ? Pleasant Experience in Bug tracking tools like JIRA, HP Quality Center and Bugzilla.  ? Expertise in using IDE tools such as Notepad ++, Web Matrix, Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor, Intell IJ IDEA and Web Storm.  ? Knowledge of utilizing cloud technologies including Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure Blob and Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  ? Experience in Version Control tools like CVS, GIT, SVN and Clear-Case for Source Code version management.  ? Used EC2 as virtual servers to host Git, Jenkins and Configuration Management tool like Ansible and also converting manual procedures to Dynamic API generated procedures.  ? Experience in deployment platform and coordinating code builds promotions using Jenkins and GitHub.  ? Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation, Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  ? Ability to work effectively while working as a team member as well as individually.  ? Excellent communication and Inter-Personal Skills, well organized, goal oriented. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer/React JS Developer EOG Resources - Houston, TX June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Worked in developing web pages using HTML/HTML5, XML, DHTML CSS/CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, JQuery, JSON, Node.js, and Ajax.  ? Worked on adaptive design approach. Implemented unique design for MOBILE and DESKTOP.  ? Experience working on Redux Unidirectional data-flow achieving the predictable application behavior.  ? Used ES6 and JSX with react for component development.  ? Worked with the Material-UI library for the designing purpose while creating the functional components which can be reused in future.  ? Worked with React JS components, Redux Forms, Events, Animations and Router.  ? Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  ? Added Dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  ? Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable.  ? Maintained STATES in the store and dispatched the ACTIONS using Redux.  ? Worked with Redux Middleware Redux-Sagas while working with the CRUD operations like GET, POST, PUT and DELETE methods.  ? Written the test cases for the React components using Unit testing.  ? Extensively used debugging tools such as Firebug and IE Dev tools to investigate the issues and fix the bugs.  ? Used GIT and Update Daily task in to the Agile Methodology.    Environment: React, Redux, JavaScript, Express Js, Unit testing, Webpack, GitHub, and Agile Methodology. UI Developer/React JS Developer Ann Taylor - Atlanta, GA November 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery and React.JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  ? Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  ? Implemented react JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozilla, IE 7, 8, 9, Safari and FF.  ? Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  ? Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  ? Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  ? Used React-Auto complete for creating Google maps location search on the webpage Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using React.  ? Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  ? In Phase Two, worked closely with the Back-End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components and Redux.  ? Used Middleware Redux-thunx, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  ? Added Dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  ? Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  ? Optimized animation logic with optimistic functions to increase performance in rendering.  ? Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  ? Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  ? Accelerated React native learning curve for expert team of Web and iOS developers.  ? Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for fixing of Issues.  ? Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Ajax, React JS, Redux, Flex, SQL Server, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, Git hub, Restful API, AWS, JIRA, Jasmine and Web Strom. UI Developer/React JS Developer DaVita - Brentwood, TN September 2016 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in designing web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, React JS, Redux and Flux to meet the accessibility and web browser standard for website.  ? Developed user interface by using the React JS, Redux for SPA development.  ? Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  ? Worked with React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Implemented Stable React JS components and Stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  ? Responsible for React UI and building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  ? Used ES6 features libraries to handle Web socket events.  ? Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Effectively used the life cycle methods such as Initialization, Mounting, Updating and Unmounting and invoked them at different phases of the components life cycle to develop quality React Js user interfaces.  ? Also worked to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  ? Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  ? Added Dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  ? Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  ? Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  ? Used React flux to polish the data and for single directional flow.  ? Implemented flux pattern by using Redux framework as a core dependency.  ? Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between Server side to Client Side.  ? Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  ? Built backend REST API with Node JS and Responsible to Style, look, feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  ? Worked on AWS to integrate the server side and client-side code.  ? Worked Test Driven Development(TDD) using Karma and Jasmine  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, SASS, React JS, Redux, Node JS, JSP, Web-Pack, GitHub, Jenkins, Web Strom, Karma and Jasmine. UI Developer/React JS Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA December 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using JavaScript, JQuery, CSS and HTML.  ? Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML & CSS, Bootstrap.  ? Communicate with the client to understand the requirement of the website, gained experience in project planning, involved in writing the Project Design Document and Project Plan Document.  ? Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  ? Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js.  ? Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  ? Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  ? Responsible for experimenting with new frameworks and libraries to make decision either should be used in the product/project or not.  ? Maintained 24/7 high volume availability using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, and MySQL.  ? Implemented UX/UI on the front end in React native for android and iOS.  ? Augmented and re-designed previously created forms to include automation, interactive UI flow, and dynamic data entry.  ? Created a system for generating and displaying data visualization from inputs throughout the entire application.  ? Have worked on AWS for fetch the pictures files from AWS to UI.  ? Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  ? Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  ? Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  ? Integrated MAVEN with Jenkins for the builds as the Continuous Integration process.  ? MAVEN as a build tool in Jenkins to move from one environment to other and deployment scripts and Developing build using ANT.  ? Implemented exception handling in Java Spring Boot for REST API, by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations.  ? Worked with maven projects, groovy, J unit test cases, Hibernate for backend SQL processing.  ? Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Backbone JS AJAX, JSON, XML, ECLIPSE, GIT, MVC, Linux, Apache and MySQL. UI Developer Care Hospitals June 2011 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Communicate with the client to understand the requirement of the website, gained experience in project planning, involved in writing the Project Design Document and Project Plan Document.  ? Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  ? Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using JavaScript, JQuery, CSS and HTML.  ? Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  ? Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js.  ? Developed customer facing software for managing advertisements to grow the business using Backbone.js, JavaScript/jQuery, HTML and CSS.  ? Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  ? Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  ? Responsible for experimenting with new frameworks and libraries to make decision either should be used in the product/project or not.  ? Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML & CSS, Bootstrap.  ? Maintained 24/7 high volume availability using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, and MySQL.  ? Extensively used GIT for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  ? Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for fixing of Issues.  ? Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team.  ? Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed bugs for several browsers.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Backbone JS AJAX, JSON, XML, ECLIPSE, GIT, MVC, Linux, Apache and MySQL. Software Engineer Bajaj Alliance November 2009 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Participated in various stages of the project life cycle like design, implementation, testing and deployment of the application.  ? Worked in Agile environment for software development.  ? Created Angular JS controllers and services.  ? Used Angular JS 2.0 filters for filter functionality in search box and Iterate functionalities.  ? Used Spring 3.0 MVC framework.  ? Used Restful Web services to extract product and warranty information.  ? Implemented Persistence layer by incorporating Hibernate ORM to interact with the Oracle database.  ? Wrote SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures and modifications to existing database structure.  ? Developed Scripts for UNIX platform deployment.  ? Used Maven for compilation and building JAR and WAR files.  ? Used J Unit/Eclipse for the unit testing of various modules, also created Test Plans and Test Cases.  ? Used JENKINS for CI and deployment.  ? Utilized full range of testing methods, including functional, regression, integration, installation, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and smoke Testing.  ? Developed test cases and test procedures from prototypes, technical specifications, requirements documents and use cases.  ? Performed troubleshooting and analysis to assess root cause of applications and data issues.  ? Involved in 24X7 production support and maintaining the application after production.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML, Hibernate, Web Services, Ajax, Oracle, AWS EC2, PL/SQL, Web logic Application Server 8.1, XML. UML, JUnit, Maven, JENKINS and UN IX. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax. (7 years), Bootstrap (6 years), HTML (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), Web services (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies: HTML, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, AJAX, J Query, Word Press, JSON, Twitter Bootstrap, React JS, Angular JS 1.x, Express JS, Node.js, GitHub, JAVA, J2EE  Development tools: Eclipse, Web Matrix, Web Strom, Bonita, Sublime, Dreamweaver, and Notepad++.  Debugging tools: Firebug,, Chrome Developer Tools, and Intell IJ.  Frameworks: React JS, Angular JS (1.x), Node JS.  Servers: IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, BEA Web Logic 8.1, J Boss, HTTP Web Server.  Platforms: Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP/Vista, Sun Solaris 9/10, IBM-AIX 5.2/5.3, Linux 5/6.    Methodologies: Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML Water fall  Database: MONGO DB, PostgreSQL, Spunk data storage (Big data), Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, SQL Server 2000, 2005 & 2008; IIS 6.0/7.0  Frond End Tools: CorelDraw, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Illustrator  Testing Tools and Logging  Frame Works: Junit3.8/4.0, Load runner, Jasmine, Selenium, T-probe, and Easy Mock  Programming  Languages: C, C++, JAVA, MySQL, C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net, web Services  Cloud: AWS, Assure and IBM Cloud