Programmer Analyst Programmer Analyst Senior Programmer Analyst - NTT Data Plano, TX • Senior IBM Power Systems Software developer having 8+ years of professional IT experience, well versed in all phases of Enterprise System Management Software like creating detailed Product Specifications, Design, Analysis, Development, Documentation, Coding, Implementation and Testing client server application.  • Proficient in IBM I-Series (AS/400, now i5) technology using programming languages RPG IV (ILE), DB2/400 RPGLE, CLLE, SQLRPGLE, RPG III, RPG/400, RPG IV, RPG Free Format.  • Deploy code using Continuous integration software tool - Turnover.  • Review and approve final documentation and test procedures for complex applications and programs. Document custom programs and procedures.  • Working expertise on iSeries API's, data queues, user queues, multithreading, journaling, and IBM iSeries file systems.  • Support java developers interfacing with existing RPG programs and DB2 databases.  • Implementing Agile Methodology according to constraints and business needs.  • Creation of database objects like Tables, Views, materialized views, indexes, Synonyms and Sequences.  • Good exposure in FTP for moving data from one i-series server to the other i-series servers.  • Perform functional / technical analysis for code changes and create high-level solution design and discuss the design with Business Analysts and other developers.  • Domain knowledge and experience in the areas of Casino, Banking, Healthcare, Insurance and commercial finance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Programmer Analyst NTT Data - Plano, TX March 2018 to Present Plano, TX Mar' 2018 - Present    Project: VIWeb Integration  Domain: Document Management  Technical Env: RPGILE, CLLE, DB2/400, RPG/400, CL/400, SQL/400  Tools: SEU, SDA, DBU, RLU, PDM  Role: Programmer Analyst    Project Description: - NTT Data is a Japanese system integration company and a partially-owned subsidiary of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone (NTT). Its business areas are in national and local governments, financial, and telecommunication sectors.  The document management team is more into migrating VIWEB from VI to CMOD.    Responsibilities:  • Developing programs in IBM I-Series technology using programming languages RPG IV (ILE), DB2/400 RPGLE, CLLE, SQLRPGLE, RPG III, RPG/400, RPG IV, RPG Free Format.  • Involving in Production Support, Defect investigation and Bug fix, Root Cause analysis, Business requirement gathering, Development Unit & Integration Testing.  • Deploy code using Continuous integration software tool - Turnover.  • Solve practical problems and deal with situations where only limited standardization exists and interpret instructions furnished in written, oral, diagram, or schedule form.  • Review and approve final documentation and test procedures for complex applications and programs. Document custom programs and procedures.  • Working expertise on iSeries API's, data queues, user queues, multithreading, journaling, and IBM iSeries file systems.  • System - DB2 SQL Server and Transaction server software - Microsoft Internet Information Service IIS.  • Support java developers interfacing with existing RPG programs and DB2 databases.  • Developing programs to migrate VI module to CMOD using RPGLE/SQLRPGLE/CLLE.  • Implementation activities for both pre-and post-releases.  • Involved in software development cycle for new requirements and enhancement using Rational Developer RDi as GUI. Programmer Analyst Caesars Entertainment - Las Vegas, NV August 2017 to March 2018 Client: - Caesars Entertainment - Las Vegas, NV Aug' 2017 - Mar' 2018    Project: CMS  Domain: Casino Management  Technical Env: RPGILE, CLLE, DB2/400, RPG/400, CL/400, SQL/400  Tools: SEU, SDA, DBU, RLU, PDM  Role: Programmer Analyst    Project Description: - Caesars Entertainment Corporation is the world's most diversified casino-entertainment provider. Caesars builds loyalty and value with guests through a unique combination of great service, unbeatable gaming, hospitality and entertainment offerings, operational and technology excellence and industry-leading corporate citizenship.    Responsibilities:  • Good development skill in RPG/400, ILE RPG, CL/400 and DB2/400 technologies.  • Strong team player and takes ownership of issue analysis and resolution.  • Also utilize Word processing software - Microsoft Word, Presentation software - Microsoft PowerPoint, Spreadsheet software - Microsoft Excel and Electronic mail software - Microsoft Outlook for day to day activities.  • Deploy code using Continuous integration software tool - MKS.  • Responsible for maximizing availability and performance for all WebSphere Application Server and IBM HTTP Server Plugins and IBM HTTP Server systems.  • Strong attention to detail, good organizational skills and ability to meet deadlines.  • Ability to establish and maintain effective, professional work relationships with all levels within the organization. AS400 Developer (Senior Software Engineer) UnitedHealth Group - Santa Ana, CA June 2016 to May 2017 Santa Ana, CA June' 2016 - May' 2017    Project: RxClaim  Domain: Insurance / Healthcare  Technical Env: RPGILE, CLLE, DB2/400, RPG/400, CL/400, SQL/400  Tools: SEU, SDA, DBU, RLU, PDM  Role: AS400 Developer (Senior Software Engineer)    Project Description: - OptumRx RxCLAIM is only online pharmacy claims processing system that includes the ability to coordinate multi-payer transactions, e-Prescribing and an array of batch applications for Govt. programs (PDE), financial reporting, accounting, eligibility, Mail-service pharmacy, Prior authorization department, explanation of benefits (EOB), as well as other business and clinical functions. RxCLAIM is priority 1 application which has capability of processing 7 million claims per day with average response time of 0.23 second and this includes adjudication of both government and commercial pharmacy claims.    Responsibilities:  • Development Skills - Strong development skills in RPG, RPG III, RPG/ILE, RPG free format, CL, CLLE, Embedded SQL, DB2, Stored Procedures, API, & DB design for iSeries/AS400.  • Advanced SQL experience including embedded program SQL in V7R2.  • Work with T-SQL Programming with MYSQL and DB2 Databases.  • Manage version using File Versioning Software - GIT, obtain code review sign-off and deploy code using Continuous integration software tool - Aldon.  • Solve practical problems and deal with situations where only limited standardization exists and interpret instructions furnished in written, oral, diagram, or schedule form.  • Primary job responsibility - Accounting, Data Management/Merging, building program tools allowing accounting to operate smoothly.  • Use Rational Developer as our primary GUI.  • Conduct unit testing, provide support for integration testing / user acceptance testing using Content workflow software Atlassian - JIRA. AS400 Developer (Senior Software Engineer) UnitedHealth Group - Santa Ana, CA November 2015 to May 2016 Santa Ana, CA November'2015 - May'2016    Project: RxClaim  Domain: Insurance / Healthcare  Technical Env: RPGILE, CLLE, DB2/400, RPG/400, CL/400, SQL/400  Tools: SEU, SDA, DBU, RLU, PDM  Role: AS400 Developer (Senior Software Engineer)    Project Description:  OptumRx RxCLAIM is only online pharmacy claims processing system that includes the ability to coordinate multi-payer transactions, e-Prescribing and an array of batch applications for Govt. programs (PDE), financial reporting, accounting, eligibility, Mail-service pharmacy, Prior authorization department, explanation of benefits (EOB), as well as other business and clinical functions. RxCLAIM is priority 1 application which has capability of processing 7 million claims per day with average response time of 0.23 second and this includes adjudication of both government and commercial pharmacy claims.    Responsibilities: -  • Involved in requirements gathering, periodical reporting to the Line Manager.  • Involved in environment building tasks which are required to run the applications.  • Automating the environment related exceptions extraction.  • Involved in the preparation of utility which extracts the exceptions related to incorrect authority, owner, cross owners and many more while creating a new environment according to US embassy.  • Involved in designing of screens and developing of programs necessary to meet the US requirements for GSP (Internet Banking).  • Apply software upgrades and service packs.  • Develop and enhance software applications as required. (Primarily using Rational Developer RDi) AS400 Developer ( Software Engineer) North America HSBC - Buffalo, NY June 2011 to November 2015 Buffalo, NY June'2011 - November'2015    Project: Greenfield HUB 4.0 Migration  Domain: Banking  Technical Env.: RPGILE, CLIE, DB2/400, RPG/400, CL/400, SQL/400  Tools: SEU, SDA, DBU, RLU, PDM  Role: AS400 Developer ( Software Engineer)    Project Description: - HUB is a core banking application build on I-series. All systems (internal and external) send-receive the information to HUB for main processing. From account opening to account closing, funds deposit to funds transfer to anywhere in the world will be validated in this application. HUB processes the information and sends back the result to the other applications whether it's an exception or success of a process. Currently, HUB handles the report printing for Balance sheet re-conciliation, statements (both customer and account levels), exceptions reporting and many more.    Responsibilities: -  • First Line Support (Fire Fighting) for both online (bank work hours) and offline (Non-banking hours i.e. Batch Support).  • Second Line Support (Production Problem tickets).  • Interacting with actual bank users regarding the business problems and issues (Both Technical and Functional).  • Participate in production releases and provide post implementation warranty support and provide resolutions which could be user training, data fix or code fix.  • Performed analysis, coding and enhancements using RPGILE, CLLE.    TRAINIGS AND CERTIFICATIONS  Attended AS400 Training in HSBC  - AS400 Proficient SSE Level  - Business English from Cambridge University Skills AS400 (8 years), OS/400 (8 years), RPG (8 years), RPG/400 (8 years), RPGLE (8 years), DB2 (8 years), SQL (5 years), STORED PROCEDURES (5 years), SQLRPGLE (8 years), CLP (8 years), CLLE (8 years), RATIONAL DEVELOPER FOR IBMi (3 years), FTP