U3 / Sr. Software Engineer U3 / Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer U3 / Sr. Software Engineer - TCS • A result oriented professional around 5 years of experience in PL/SQL Development  • Well versed in Client/Server application development using Oracle 10g/11g, Oracle PL/SQL.  • Good Knowledge on Database architecture and new features of Oracle  • Possess exposure on Triggers, Packages, Functions, Procedures and exception handling.  • Good in implementing a framework of quality standards and overseeing smooth implementation of the project.  • Have Knowledge on UNIX environment. Work Experience U3 / Sr. Software Engineer TCS January 2019 to Present Industry IT U3 / Sr. Software Engineer Tech Mahindra November 2016 to December 2018 Industry IT Software Engineer Crown Solutions - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2015 to February 2016 Industry IT SQL Developer Microsoft - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2015 to February 2016 Team Size Project: 11  Environment Languages: SQL, PL /SQL, Unix  Database: MS SQL server 2012, Oracle  Tools: PLSQL Developer  O/s: Windows, Unix    a) Project Description    Under MSIT project we have MPSIT BPU and our module is PKS. Where we work under Microsoft ID's Where PKS is Product key services, We use to handle and support the Microsoft products where we deal with the activation of the product keys (like windows activation, office products activation etc.) and we provide remote desktop access to the requested users by using the special tool called RDSLM and RBACK tool is used to provide the CAL's to the requested users.    b) Contribution  • Created DB objects like tables, synonyms, sequences and views.  • Written SQL queries using joins, sub queries and correlated sub queries  • Used Table Partitioned concept to maintain the large volume of data.  • Loaded the customer data into Oracle system by using External table concept.  • Customer data entry using Form Builder.  • Generated XML reports of customers Using Report Builder.    Project Details    Project Domain IT  Project Name: CPOS Process Standardization Software Engineer Ebyte software Solution - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to June 2015 Skills  loyment  Primary Skill category Oracle SQL, PL/SQL  Secondary Skill category Unix, Core java, Oracle Db2  Project Acquired skills Advance PL/SQL Concept, Core java and Core DB  Primary Domain Skill Telecom  Linguistic Skills English (fluent), Hindi(fluent), Telugu(Basic)    Project Details:    Project Domain Banking  Project Name: Roomba Data loading  Client Experian  Role Analyzing and development  Organization TCS  Location Offshore: Hyderanad, Team Size Handled Project: 20 Module: Banking Application    a) Project Description    Need to load load customer data into Roomba SQL server every month that receives through different teams like CAPS, GAPS by truncating the tables first and update it through the new script which receives weekly basis.    b) Contribution  • Creation of Alert Types, Alert Views, rebuild tables, Drilldown queries, custom flows.  • Created rules and permission in RCM side.  • Created new PL/SQL Stored procedures for customer risk rating.  • Unit testing and impact analysis.  • Monitoring and processing of different batches from backend in case of any failure and troubleshooting purpose.    Project Details:    Project Domain Banking  Project Name: Payment Transaction system(PTS)  Client MasterCard  Role Analyzing and development  Organization Tech Mahindra Pvt Ltd  Location Offshore: Yerwada, Pune  Team Size Handled Project: 30 Module: Banking Application    a) Project Description    Mastercard is an interchange between issuer and acquirer bank .Payment transaction processing handles all the Daily customer transactions of major banks of south Asia & Middle East Asia region. PTS team is responsible for validation and reconciliation of all the transactions made by the bank customers with the Mastercard interchange data. It is also responsible for resolving any chargebacks raised by bank. PTS team also does card and pin production for new bank customers. PTS add new functionalities to the existing application by developing back end code    b) Contribution  • Creation of Alert Types, Alert Views, rebuild tables, Drilldown queries, custom flows.  • Created rules and permission in RCM side.  • Created new PL/SQL Stored procedures for customer risk rating.  • Unit testing and impact analysis.  • Working from client location for handling and resolving the daily issues faced by bank customers.  • Monitoring and processing of different batches from backend in case of any failure and troubleshooting purpose.  • Sound knowledge of Oracle architecture and implemented Oracle advanced features (eg: Analytical functions, application performance tuning).  • Involved in PL/SQL code review and modification for the development of new requirements.  • Responsible for effective communication between banks to establish secure connection between client and client partner servers for transfer of files.  • Providing production support and resolving production issues.    Skills  loyment  Primary Skill category Oracle SQL, PL/SQL  Secondary Skill category Unix, Core java, Oracle D2k  Project Acquired skills Advance PL/SQL Concept, Core java and Core DB  Primary Domain Skill Telecom  Linguistic Skills English (fluent), Hindi(fluent), Telugu(Basic)    Project Details:    Project Domain IT  Project Name: FATCA  Client First gulf bank  Role Analyzing and development  Organization Tech Mahindra Pvt Ltd  Location Offshore: Chennai  Team Size Handled Project: 10 Module: Banking Application    a) Project Description  The "Foreign Accounts Tax Compliance Act" (FATCA) legislation was signed into law by the US Government as part of the "Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act", on 18th March 2010. The legislation was enacted to prevent offshore tax abuse by U.S. persons. FGB FATCA involves Identification and Classification of Accounts held by the US Citizens for Australia, New Zealand and APEA Countries. This is implemented using an integration tool called X-Gen.    b) Contribution  • Creation of Alert Types, Alert Views, rebuild tables, Drilldown queries, custom flows.  • Created rules and permission in RCM side.  • Created new PL/SQL Stored procedures for customer risk rating.  • Fixed defects raised by testing and SIT team.  • Unit testing and impact analysis.    Project Details  Project Domain IT  Project Name: MSIT Oracle Programmer Ebyte software Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to June 2015 Team Size Project: 8  Environment Languages: SQL, PLSQL, Unix  Database: ORACLE  Tools: SQL Developer, O/s: Windows, Unix    a) Project Description    Vodafone India ltd. is a UK based organizations and provides telecommunication services in India. This is the web applications used by the Vodafone employee to provide the different services to the customers. These services include different modules and facilities pertaining to those modules. Modules include Sales, Inventory, Servicing, Transactions, CRS, and Reports etc. The total Vodafone store sales are generalized and managed through this application. Previously the sales are done through the applications which are specific to the circles. The application also deals with SIM Number activations, migration of prepaid customer to postpaid customer, migration of postpaid customer to prepaid customer, managing the user roles depending on the designations of the users.    b) Contribution    • Developed the reports as per client requirement, PL/SQL packages, procedures and functions in accordance with business requirements for loading data into database tables  • Involved in coding and various PL/SQL validations  • Created views from multiple tables, Sequences and indexes to increase the application's performance.  • Corrective fixes scripts to remove the data errors  • Restructured SQL query to improve response time for the customers.  • Written logical SQL queries using joins, sub queries and correlated sub queries  • Used Ref Cursors for fetching data from database.