Sr. Java Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Tata Consultancy Services Stamford, CT Enthusiastic, proactive Sr. Java Cloud Developer with 09 years of software development experience in Web Application Development, support and maintenance with expertise in Java SE, Java EE, Oracle, SQL/PLSQL technologies. Worked with JPMC and General electric's client on Cards, Transportation, Health Care, Power & Water and Thermal domains as a Senior Software Developer. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Wilmington, DE January 2018 to Present Client: JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Wilmington, DE, USA  Project Name: Home Lending    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring Boot, Maven, Spring JPA, Maven, Spring, SOAP, Rest service, Ora- cle, SQL/PLSQL, JSON, UNIX, Cassandra, Jules, AIM and Kafka  Software's: Eclipse, GIT, BitBucket, Cloud Foundry, Postgres  Database: Oracle  Tools: Eclipse IDE, pgAdmin, Postman, DevShell, GIT, SVN, CVS  O/S: Windows    Project Description:  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is global financial institution where, Home lending project is dedicated project to deliver  software solution for Home Loan enquiry to Disbursement requirements. Home Lending software project  development includes design, analytics, coding and application testing to create a high quality software using Java  1.8, Spring Boot, Maven, Oracle, Postgres, JSON and other tools.    Responsibilities:  Responsible to maintain build Web services API's endpoint using SOAP and RESTful for other domain  consumption.  Build, Push and deploy Spring application over Cloud Foundry using many JPMC financial services.  As a Cloud Foundry Developer, engaged in all aspects of the software development life cycle includes technical  design, implementation, testing, deployment and support of application developed for our clients.  Worked in Agile Software development and developed code modules in pair programming model.  Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects etc.  Under Agile Software Development, performed following coding best practices:  o Pair Programming  o Test Driven approach for Software Development.  Regular refactoring, Continuous integration, Simple design and Sharing the codebase between all or most  programmers.  Designed and developed client based module in Java, Spring Framework (Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring JPA), Automated Build: (Jenkins, and Maven).  Experience with JavaScript, Node, and YML.  Design and develop globally deployed Cloud based microservices solutions with high availability.  Involved in working with the QA to assist in writing test code and debugging the defects in the application.  Working in Agile environment for bug free Software Development. Sr. Java Developer Tech Mahindra - Detroit, MI November 2016 to December 2017 Client: General Electrics (GE), Detroit, MI  Project Name: GE Digital    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring Data JPA, Gradle, Maven, Spring, Spring Boot, SOAP, Rest service, Postgres, Oracle, SQL/PLSQL, JSON, UNIX, JavaScript, HTML5, XML, CSS, AJAX  Software's: Eclipse, GIT, Cloud Foundry, Postgres  Database: Postgres, Oracle  Tools: Eclipse IDE, pgAdmin, Postman , Cygwin, GIT  O/S: Mac OS Sierra    Project Description:  GE Digital is a one place software development hub for GE business which is responsible to build product as per their  business requirement over various domains. Under GE Digital, Digital Thread is Java development project designed to develop Web application which provide Java solutions. A POD module team structure, A GE initiative Software  Development HUB build web applications using Java 1.8, Spring, Oracle, Postgres. And JSON.    Responsibilities:  Responsible to build Web services API's endpoint using RESTful for UI consumption.  Designed and developed Database architecture with indexing and refactoring for Faster DB performance.  Worked in Agile Software development and developed code modules in pair programming model.  Designed and developed client based module in Java, Spring Framework (Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring JPA), Automated Build: (Gradle, Jenkins, and Maven).  As a Cloud Foundry Developer, engaged in all aspects of the software development lifecycle includes technical  design, implementation, testing, deployment and support of application developed for our clients.  Experience with JavaScript, Node, and YML.  Design and develop globally deployed Cloud based micro-services solutions with high avail- ability.  Work in an Agile/Scrum development methodology to drive key aspects of product definition, execution and test.  Working in Agile environment for bug free Software Development. Java Developer & Data Engineer Tech Mahindra - Melbourne, FL March 2016 to November 2016 Client: General Electrics (GE), Melbourne, FL  Project Name: GE Transportation    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring Data JPA, Gradle, Maven, Spring, Spring Boot, SOAP, Rest service, Postgres, Oracle, SQL/PLSQL, JSON, UNIX, JavaScript, HTML5, XML, CSS, AJAX  Software's: Eclipse, GIT, Postgres  Database: Postgres, Oracle  Tools: Eclipse IDE, sqlDeveloper, Postman , Cygwin, GITO/S: Windows 7    Project Description:  GE Transportation is a Web application development project which responsible to develop Analytical Scenario  software solution for transportation domain such as simulator module to improve Train route performance. This  project majorly responsible to provide software solution for GE Transportation domain.  Responsibilities:  Designed and developed web application using Java 1.8, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring JPA, Gradle, Maven and Oracle).  Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development.  Developed REST end point for application web service consumption.  Worked in Agile Software development and developed code modules in pair programming model.  Working experience in Agile Software Development Practices where, developed application components using  a test-driven approach, maintained project schedules, tasks, identified problems and formulated alternative  solutions respectively.  Analysis and requirement gathering for new Business enhancement's proposal, with Clients and Business  leaders.  Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of client side Software Development.  Developed and delivered client module as Jar files and deployed them on client machine. Worked on technologies like JavaScript, JSON. Sr. Software Developer Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2014 to March 2016 Client: General Electric(GE)  Project Name: GE Power & water    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring Data JPA, Gradle, Maven, Spring, Spring Boot, SOAP, Rest service, Postgres, Oracle, SQL/PLSQL, JSON, UNIX, JavaScript, HTML5, XML, CSS, AJAX  Software's: Eclipse, GIT, Postgres  Database: Postgres, Oracle  Tools: Eclipse IDE, SqlDeveloper, Cygwin, GITO/S: Windows 7    Project Description:  GE Power & water is a Support, maintenance and development project with more than 50 applications. It Primarily  provide Software solution for applications development, Support and maintenance as required for Power & Water  domain.    Responsibilities:  Involved in the analysis, design, development and testing phases of Software Development.  Develop automated Unit and functional tests for Continuous Development, Continuous Deployment CI/CD  environment.  Collaborate with QA to investigate and fix defects.  Extensively involved in the integration for the Front End web interface with the controller using Spring MVC.  Involved in working with the QA to assist in writing test code and debugging the defects in the application.  Created WAR/EAR files from Maven and deployed them on application server.  Used LOG4J for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  Involved in refactoring the code to remove unnecessary exceptions thrown at various levels.  Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements clarification Defects etc.  Under Agile Software Development, performed following coding best practices:  Maintained project schedules, tasks, Identified problems and formulated alternative solutions respectively.  Regular refactoring, Continuous integration, Simple design and Sharing the codebase between all or most  programmers.  Identified and acted to improve team knowledge of new business processes and technologies.  Stayed current on latest industry developments and provided knowledge and individual mentoring to team  members as needed. Sr. Software Developer Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to November 2014 Client: GE  Project Name: GE Thermal    Environment: Java/J2EE, Struts, Spring, Casper, Swing , Ant, Maven, SVN, CVS  Software's: Eclipse IDE, Tortoise  Database: Oracle10g, Teradata  Tools: Eclipse IDE, SQL Developer  O/S: Windows 7    Project Description:  GE Thermal is a Support, maintenance and development project with more than 60 applications. It Primarily provide  Software solution for applications development, Support and maintenance as required for Thermal domain.    Responsibilities:  Designed and developed and provide technical analyst service solution for web application as developed in Java, Struts, Spring Oracle.  Work in an Agile/Scrum development methodology to drive key aspects of product definition, execution and test.  Designed dynamic and cross-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and AJAX.  Worked on technologies like, Html5, JavaScript, JSON, CSS bootstrap.  Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services.  Coordinates and consults with application architects to ensure design is appropriately implemented within the solution or service.  Developed and build solutions or services adhere to IT principles such as optimizing system performance, maintainability and usability requirements while meeting Client IT standards, procedures, security, and  policies.  Used Subversion (SVN) for change management and used ANT to facilitate build management.  Created proof-of-concept prototype applications for demonstration and evaluation purposes. Updated, modified and expanded existing software programs.  Interacting with the end-users and clients to gather requirements and clarifications for the issues assigned.  Debugger and solution provider for reported minor or major bugs. Created WAR/EAR files from Maven and deployed them on application server. Software Engineer Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2010 to May 2012 Client: General Electric (GE)  Project Name: GE HealthCare    Environment: Java/J2EE, Struts, Oracle, SQL/PLSQL  Software's: Toad, Eclipse IDE, SVN, CVS, SQL Developer  Database: Oracle10g  Tools: Eclipse IDE, Toad, SQL Developer, HP Quality CenterO/s: Windows XP    Project Description:  GE HealthCare is a Support, maintenance and development project with more than 80 applications. It Primarily  provide Software solution for applications development, Support and maintenance as required for HealthCare  domain.    Responsibilities:  Primarily focused on the spring components such as Spring MVC, Dispatcher Servlets, Con- trollers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  Prepared the code base ready for Web server migration from Web-sphere to Jboss 4.2. Involved in the presentation tier design as well as services layer, and prepared the class diagrams, sequence diagrams.  Prepared the Technical Design Document for both Presentation Tier, as well as Middle Layer.  Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle  (SDLC).  Developed and Implemented new business enhancement requests to enhance product functionality.  Expertise in deployment, configuration and documentation procedures. Professional Skills. Education Master of Computer Application in Distance Education Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, POSTGRES, SQL, ECLIPSE, JAVA, SPRING, JBOSS, Git, GRADLE, HTML, JENKINS, JSON, SVN, XML, MAVEN, SOAP, UNIX, REST, CSS Additional Information Strong proficiency in Core Java, J2EE technologies, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring JPA, JSON, JUNIT, Postgres,  Oracle, JDBC, Cassandra, Kafka.  A Certified PREDIX Developer for Cloud Development with expertise in Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  Having hands on development experience in REST and SOA web services.  Working in an Agile/Scrum development methodology to drive key aspects of product definition, execution  and test.  Working experience in Agile Software Development Practices where, developed application components using  a test-driven approach, maintained project schedules, tasks, identified problems and formulated alternative  solutions respectively.  Expertise in Version Controlling using GIT, SVN and CVS.  Having good RDBMS concepts knowledge and worked with Oracle 9i/10g/11g.  Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL and wrote Stored Procedures, triggers besides writing DDL, DML and transaction  queries with development tools like Toad and SQL Developer.  Knowledge of Unix OS environment and Scripting concepts.  Having knowledge on various application Servers and web Servers including Jboss, Apache Tomcat server.  Designed & developed several multi-tiers Web application, Standalone applications and Multi-threaded  applications.  Worked as a team lead, where collaborated with Product owner, Business SPOC and Developers to ensure and  deliver robust and high-quality product.  Expertise in Client Scripting language and server-side scripting languages like HTML, Java-Script and JSON.  Extensive experience in working on projects with Waterfall and agile methodologies.  Good client interaction skills, proactive listener, creative problem solver with proven experience in working  independently as well as in a team.  Experience in writing/editing web content, technical and user documentation, business process analysis,  process flow charting and documentation.  Created proof-of-concept (POC's) a prototype application for demonstration and evaluation purposes, of new  requirements in existing module or on new business modules.  Flexible, fast learner, results oriented and able to succeed within an open collaborative peer environment    Technical Skills  Java: Core Java, Spring, Spring Boot  Cloud: Cloud Foundry, Predix, PCF  Web: HTML, SOAP, REST, XML, JSON, CSS  Database: Oracle, Postgres, Spring Data JPA, SQL/PLSQL  Tools: Eclipse, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, PgAdmin, GIT, SOAPUI, DevShell, SVN, CVS, GitBash  Web App/Server: Tomcat, Jboss  Others: JUnit, Mockito, Rest Assured, Designed Pattern, Multithreading, Agile, Scrum, Unix