Lead Software Developer Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Software Developer - Perspecta Inc Austin, TX Work Experience Lead Software Developer Perspecta Inc - Austin, TX 2016 to Present Developed various modules for Teacher Retirement System of Texas (TRS, Austin TX) using RESTFul web-services. These modules eliminated manual operations and painful data gathering.  ? Implemented the batch operations framework, which reduced the processing time by almost 50%. Leveraged the BeanIO API (a third party tool) to read/write records from huge flat files.  ? Actively participated in requirement gathering sessions with system users and SMEs, presented technical solutions to clients and system users.  ? Received appreciation award in year 2018 for rolling out Account Refund functionality to TRS with a minimal number of defects. Senior Software Developer Hewlett Packard Enterprise - Portland, OR 2010 to 2015 Developed the web-based interface for the members of the Public Employee Retirement System for Oregon State (PERS, Tigard OR). This interface transformed customer experience by creating online portal of all PERS related account actions.  ? Played a pivotal role in architecting and rolling out critical modules for PERS.  ? Handled all requirements gathering initiatives concerned with Process Death Claims and Beneficiary Payments. Software Developer Sesia Consulting (India) 2008 to 2009 Participated in development of the Employee Resource Information Center (ERIC, Ohio State) as a part of offshore team.  ? Actively involved in configuring the individual system modules with other applications. Guided team members and constantly sought opportunity to build expertise in ERIC application. Software Developer Anveshan Innovative Solutions (India) 2005 to 2007 Assumed responsibility for developing web based CRM products that can be customized to cater to the needs of multiple industries.  ? Actively involved in evaluating, architecting and developing Java/J2EE base RealTime CRM Portal. Established and customized the RealTime CRM Portal for new clients. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Rajiv Gandhi Technical University 2005 Skills Tomcat, Web services, Websphere, Docker, J2ee, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jsf, Db2, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Mongodb, Junit, Testng, Soap, Training Additional Information Software Skills    Techical Skills J2EE, Spring, Hibernate-JPA, Sturts, JSF  Web Services RESTFul webservices, SOAP  Test frameworks TestNG, JUnit  App Servers Tomcat, Websphere, JBOSS  Databases MySQL, SQL Server, DB2  In Training MongoDB, Docker