Software Developer Team Lead - Staff Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Team Lead - Staff Engineer Software Developer Team Lead - Staff Engineer - NextGen Healthcare Chino, CA I am a dedicated software developer with hand-on experience in leadership and management. I am looking to fulfill my dream to become a successful developer, continue to improve, and effectively contribute my skills as a Software Professional to the organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Team Lead - Staff Engineer NextGen Healthcare - Irvine, CA July 2016 to Present Present  Responsibilities:  ? Mentor and grow team members' skill sets  ? Coordinate with other teams to prioritize projects and allocate efforts to complete tasks.  ? Provided efficient support to team manager and became the right-hand man for products design and troubleshoot.  ? Provide technical application supports for other teams within the company.  ? Collaborate with other team, both internal and external, to design, build, and implement new projects.  ? Research and design new procedure to help team meet deadlines while improving efficiency.  Achievements:  ? Helped new developers to catchup to complex system within the first month while ensured to deliver new projects on time, which provided the team with much needed capable programmers.  ? Developed better coding and document practice that sped up development time from start to finish. Provided the ability for faster information recalls and accurate project requirements.  ? Provided clear projects layout to development team which allowed accurate time estimation and ensured code quality.  ? Managed team, projects, ensured normal daily operations with the absence of manager. Software Developer NextGen Healthcare - Irvine, CA April 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Designed, maintained EDI applications using C#, SQL, Perl scripts, and various .NET technologies, providing fast, accurate, and secured applications.  ? Provided client application support, troubleshoot legacy applications, and maintained daily production support for multiple departments.  ? Implemented new applications based on different departments' requirements and clients' requests.  Achievements:  ? Collaborated with multiple different departments from Reminders to Claims and implemented new software requirements, while integrated new clients, and generated daily operation data reports. Resulted in fewer production issues.  ? Maintained, updated web page applications, helped users increase productivity with better code optimization. Provided better result and cut down daily processing time.  ? Revised, revamped, and upgraded old legacy applications to use current technologies that sped up maintainability process and increased usability.  ? Developed and deployed new automate applications to process EDI data including parsing, encrypting, processing, and generating results for clients. Transformed other departments to automated system. Helped reduce user's errors to the minimum. Software Developer CU Direct - Ontario, CA June 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Designed, maintained WPF application using C#, SQL, and unique technologies, providing smooth, and fast user experience.  ? Analyzed requirements for new application functions. Collaborated with product managers and senior developers to find the most efficient solutions.  ? Enhanced product quality by troubleshoot, reviewed, investigated, and resolved software complications in application systems.  ? Ensured delivering projects on time by assisted and supported any software issues that might arise in all environments from development through to production.  Achievements:  ? Worked with the team to develop and maintain Lending 360, a loan originating desktop application using C#, WPF, and MVVM architectural pattern.  ? Successfully created ASP.net MVC web page and integrated with desktop application.  ? Developed and deployed new features for desktop application based on clients' requirements.  ? Successfully integrated Entity Framework and Web API for more modular database access in desktop application through Nuget packages. Programmer / Analyst NRG Global, Inc - Los Angeles, CA September 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed, maintained company's complex load test applications that can simulate heavy traffic usage. At the same time, ensured product quality and customer satisfaction by supported and troubleshoot issues, provided guidance for end user.  ? QA, and test run new features implemented for load test applications.  Achievement:  ? Improved product and enhanced user experience by designed, modified new installation process and automate update applications for client's software. Allowed easy setup process and accurate version updates. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science California State Polytechnic University 2011 Skills API (3 years), C# (5 years), database (4 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (2 years), SQL (4 years), MVC (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  ? C#, .NET MVC, XML, T-SQL, MySQL, Java, C++, HTML/CSS, Perl, FTP/SFTP, PGP Encryption, Nlog, AWS, Lamda Expression, API, VBA, macro, XSL, jQuery, Assembly.  ? Object Oriented Programming, WPF, MVVM Applications, Agile Methodologies, Programming Structure, Scrum, Team Foundation Server.  ? Windows Applications (C#), Data Structure, SQL Server, Artificial Intelligence, Networking, .Net Framework.  ? Graphic User Interface (GUI) applications.    Special Skills:  ? Teamwork and collaboration skills. Implement newly learned technologies for projects.  ? Knowledge of project managements, project analyzing, web design and database, experienced in software team leading.