Net Developer Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Net Developer Honolulu, HI • Having 13 years of experience working with both web-based and windows-based application development using Microsoft Technologies had experience in design, requirement analysis, development of software lifecycle and Production support.  • Extensive experience in developing Intranet portal, Internet branding sites and business process application with complex functionality includes Asp.Net, C#, MVC, WCF/Web Service, Web-API,MS SQL Server database, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, HTML.  • Worked on Microsoft .Net Framework 2.0 and .Net Framework 4.5  • Extensive experience in 3-tier architecture, MVC framework and MVP.  • Have software development exposure via Waterfall and Agile methodology and have good understanding of the process. Work Experience Net Developer Hawaiian Airlines - Honolulu, HI January 2015 to December 2018 Passenger (PAX) Management is specialist in passenger data management to automate administrative processes. It is maintenance and support project which is having bunch of IT applications for managing its operations. The main applications are Ticketing, security application, customer service application, scheduling and Accounting.Moved the couple of application to latest version for restructuring the process.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing business requirements  • Developing the application for business requirements  • Developed the resuable framework for the application using ASP.Net MVC framework 4.5  • Worked with Web API to provide services to Http Request  • Host the web application in IIS7  • Document Impact Analysis for Business change to an existing module.  • Support business users to implement or amend business process  • Implement continuous process improvements  • Weekly status reporting  • Co-ordinate migration of code to UAT and Production environment.  Operating Systems: Windows XP, 8 & 10  Languages: ASP.Net,Asp.net MVC,C#.Net, SQL Queries,WebServices,WebApi  Software: Microsoft Visual Studio 2010 & 2013, .Net Framework 4.5,SQL Server 2008 & 2012. Net Developer Hawaiian Airlines - Honolulu, HI April 2013 to December 2014 Hawaiian Miles is Hawaiian Airlines' loyalty management program. It is a web-based application that helps you maintain members, partners, and related information. With Hawaiian Miles, you can enroll members and help them earn miles each time they fly, redeem miles in the form of awards, inform members about the various promotions from time to time, and access services provided by the partners of Hawaiian Airlines. Hawaiian Miles lets you to manage both corporate and individual members Hawaiian Miles also offers other features like Information related to partners, activities performed by members of partner airlines, data transfers to and from partner applications, and management of corporate assignments. Hawaiian Miles also provides a reporting feature which you can use to view and print member and sales reports.    Responsibilities:  • Developing the application for business requirements  • Perform Unit Testing, System Integration Testing and document Test Results.  • Document Impact Analysis for Business change to an existing module.  • Support business users to implement or amend business process  • Implement continuous process improvements  • Co-ordinate migration of code to UAT and Production environment.  Operating Systems: Windows XP, 8 & 10  Languages: ASP.Net, ASP.net MVC,C#.Net, SQL Queries,WebAPI,Webservices  Software: Microsoft Visual Studio 2010 & 2013,.Net Framework 4.5,SQL Server 2008 & 2012 Software Developer Cigna - Bloomfield, CT June 2012 to March 2013 Valor is an application framework that facilitates the development of smart client applications, connecting users with any number of application/enterprise services deployed across multiple, platforms. Valor is a .NET framework providing users within Employer Services with a single view of the applications necessary for their role. This single view is called an "Advisor". The Advisor organizes the users work. There are different types of advisors such as "Financial", "Benefits", "Contracts", "IT Support", "IM", "Service Ambassador" etc. Users outside of Employer Services are generally not provided a "role" Advisor, but instead provided direct access to "entity". Application is designed to run within the Valor framework, and is broken up into logical, reusable components and services. Valor controls the deployment of the components within the different Advisors, and manages how and when application services are called. Integrates multiple applications within the framework/Features both role and entity Advisors which organize and facilitate workflow/Integrated business management system/Workflow integration across multiple users and systems / platforms/Client, customer & user dashboard View.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze business requirements and develop the application as required.  • Involved in developing Services using C#.NET, WCF  • UI development & enrichment using CSS, JAVASCRIPT  • Perform Unit Testing, System Integration Testing  Operating Systems: Windows XP & 7  Languages: WCF, C# .Net, SQL Queries  Software: Microsoft Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2008 Software Developer Wolters Kluwer - Sacramento, CA October 2011 to April 2012 This Application helps the user to file tax information's into the state website by electronically. In this application tax information of clients will be loaded as Pdf document and required values will be extracted from the Pdf and it will be shown in the clipboard so that user can map the values between the elements present in the state browser and the clipboard, On submit mapped values will be taken to the Browser for submitting the tax information. Maintains the templates created by the user and its history in the SQL server backend. Maintains the managerial structure in the database and retrieved to map the data with state browser.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze business requirements and develop the application as required.  • Involved in developing Services using C#.NET, WCF Service, WPF  • UI development & enrichment using CSS, JAVASCRIPT  • Perform Unit Testing, System Integration Testing  Operating Systems: Windows XP  Languages: WCF, WPF, C#.Net, SQL Queries  Software: Microsoft Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2008 HP Quality Center, RTC, RRC 2008 to 2012 working in UI development and enrichment using CSS, HTML and XML  • Worked on client side scripting languages like JavaScript, Ajax  • Hands on Experience on developing Web application using ASP.net,C#.net  • Hands on Experience on Web Services and Web API.  • Experience working on Windows Service, WCF services  • Developed applications handling various authentication mechanism and role based authorization with security features.  • Experience on application Deployment in production server and involved in hosting the applications in IIS.  • Worked in Visual Source Safe and Team Foundation Server for Build and deployment of applications.  • Worked on SQL server 2005, 2008 R2, 2012 and connecting database using ADO.Net and Entity Framework.  • Have exposure in creating stored procedures, functions, views and schemas to manage with databases with different database servers.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving and unit & functional testing skills.  • Have worked with Unified Modeling Language like creating Use cases, class, sequence, and data flow diagrams etc. and have used modeling tool MS-Visio.  • Very focused, detail oriented, self-starter, motivated, good communication skills and has the capacity to contribute Individual as well as part/leading a team.  • Exposure towards tools like HP Quality Center, RTC, RRC. Software Developer General Motors - Detroit, MI April 2010 to September 2011 This Application Maintains the overall IT Request submitted by General Motors (GM) users. This application stores the information of Hardware, software and other vendor requests in the database and generates necessary reports GRTS is a tracking system that displays all GM IT Requests globally. It provides end-users the ability to search for existing Requests that have been entered into the Global Request System (GRS) and the Information Technology Services Request System (ITSRS). GM End-Users will have the ability to request search results that can be viewed or printed.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing business requirements  • Developing the application for business requirements  • Perform Unit Testing, System Integration Testing and document Test Results.  • Implement continuous process improvements  • Weekly status reporting  • Fix production issues and monitor batch cycle, if required  • Prepare RCA and take preventive measures for all the production bugs.  • Co-ordinate migration of code to UAT and Production environment.  • Urban code deployment  • Build the application in Jenkins  • Service now tool for ticketing  • QC tool for quality control  Operating Systems: Windows XP, Windows Seven  Languages: Asp.Net, C#.Net, SQL 2005,MVP  Software: Microsoft Visual Studio 2005 & 2010, SQL Server 2005 Software Developer Nissan Motors, Makati City April 2007 to March 2010 This project has four modules.  • DOA - Handbook is a management tool that identifies the people involved in a decision ("Key Players") by clarifying their responsibility to propose, validate or decide  • IPAP - According to the Nissan Non-PO approval process at least two users have to approve every invoice. The second approver has to have enough authorization limits to approve the invoice.  • E-HR - The EHR system which holds employee records in a central database. There are different Euro entities. Each month Local HR of each entity submits an excel spreadsheet into EHR. After validating, main HR uploads the data into mainframe system. Only permanent Nissan employees are in this database  • PAM - The main purpose of Portal Access Management (PAM) is to provide employee personalization to the WIN (Workforce Integration at Nissan) portal. PAM holds details for not only employees but also contractors    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing business requirements  • Developing the application for business requirements  • Perform Unit Testing, System Integration Testing and document Test Results.  • Involved in Production support activities working on tickets based on priority.  • Urban code deployment  • Build the application in Jenkins  • Service now tool for ticketing  • QC Tool for quality control  Operating Systems: Windows XP  Languages: Asp.Net, C#.Net, SQL Queries  Software: Microsoft Visual Studio 2005, SQL Server 2005 Software Developer Juki May 2006 to January 2007 A complete application to avoid administration problem. Super admin controls the full application process with configuration settings. Administrator adds and replies for agent enquiry to solve confusions among customers and agent. Agent login to get follow up schedules and replies received of customer. Add enquiry to view open pool, VIP customers and add new customers.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing business requirements  • Developing the application for business requirements  • Perform Unit Testing, System Integration Testing and document Test Results.  Operating Systems: Windows XP  Languages: Asp.Net, C#.Net, SQL Queries  Software: Microsoft Visual Studio 2005, SQL Server 2005 Education Bachelor of Engineering in E.C.E PSR Engineering College (Affiliated April 2005 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: Asp.Net, MVC, C#.Net,WCF, WPF,Webservices  Scripting: Java script, JQuery  Database System: SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012  Framework: .Net 2.0,.Net 3.0,.Net 4.5  Data Model: ADO.Net,Entity Framework  Services: Webservice,WebAPI,WCF Services  Operating System: Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10