Sr. Software Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - RAYTHEON MISSILE SYSTEMS Chandler, AZ Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer RAYTHEON MISSILE SYSTEMS - Tucson, AZ September 2018 to Present • Integrating testing software into new architecture to test Raytheon missiles  • Debug and troubleshoot multiple devices including Teradyne High Speed Subsystems, National Instruments  • Creating profiles to run automation of all testing software Software Developer INTEL CORPORATION - Chandler, AZ March 2015 to September 2018 Lead developer for implementing new application which supports planners and users utilizing for new Intel products. This  application is also a foundation to migrate three legacy applications. The application is in production for the last two years.  Continue to support, enhance, optimize, and add new features.  • Modeling the data and optimize desired solution for factories to suggest which products to build and quantity for each  product.  • Using SSIS packages to consume data from many different data sources, manipulate and place newly created data structure  into new application database.  • The application implementing based on Object Relational Mapping (ORM) as layer to communicate the SQL backend. Web  API as the service to supply data for client to prepare for the UI.  • The Web client side implementation with AngularJS to communicate with Web API server.  • Practicing Test Driven Development in both server and client.  • Practicing Scrum Agile development methodology, continuous integration, release management, TFS  • Participating with product owners and users to discuss design, requirements and other complex features.  • Training mid-level developers in Asia to work on the project. Software Developer U-HAUL INTERNATIONAL - Phoenix, AZ February 2014 to February 2015 Develop and maintain business application for U-Haul Investors Club. The public application allows users to create new  investment account, deposit, withdraw, transfer, rollover IRA account from other retirement accounts.  • Develop and maintain business application for U-Haul car share. The public application allows users to create new account, search for available rental cars by state, zip code or city. When user makes reservation, the user takes a photo, upload to the  live verification site for real agent to verify that potential driver is in the good shape of operating the vehicle. The  administration site allows authority people to monitor, query reports, and modify the business operations.  • Maintain business application for U-Haul rental truck. The public application allows users to search for the service, make a reservation, and schedule to pick up.  • Develop and test internal web application. The application allows anyone in the organization to request new web application, change existing application, add features to existing applications, and report errors. The application keeps track of the request  since it originated. The request follows along from approval of senior management down to developers.  • Other internal web applications allow U-Haul dealers all over places to look for services and equipment for renting and trading to add to their services and business operations.  • Developed U-Haul internal applications using Microsoft .NET framework MVC and Web form with C#, SQL, Entity  Framework, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, CSS, and HTML5. Worked on search application. Search terms including member  identification, names, phones, addresses, department, location number, business types, equipment, member's job types, services The information is retrieved from database storing in distributed servers.  • Modified the application to order business card. Application allows members to choose business card template in the database, arrange member's information in the card, allowing editing text, creating .pdf file, display the preview order with  business card image, calculating cost, and display order for review before approve order.  • Tested application which creating the route for each location. Each location is designated to specific route which includes  some other closely locations to share with the marketing unit. The route needs to look for a group of five to ten dealers by zip  code, cities and addresses. Dealers in different states are not supposed in the same route. Software Developer SELFACCOUNTS September 2006 to December 2012 Designed and implemented Java Windows and Console accounting applications for small businesses and sole  proprietorships. The applications to help users to keep all records for business like revenues, spending, customers, inventory  • Designed and implemented simple SQL databases for applications. Education Master of Engineering in Systems Engineering ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY - Tempe, AZ May 2014 Bachelor of Science in Computer Systems Engineering ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY - Tempe, AZ December 2002 Skills Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql, .net, Microsoft visual studio, Javascript, Java, Javascript, Linux, Angular (6 years), c/c++ (5 years), C# (10+ years), Python (5 years)