Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Los Angeles, CA Skilled software developer bringing more than 15 years in software design and development. Main development areas are: Media Streaming, Billing, CMS, Mobile, Distributed Systems, Web Services, Scaling and Performance. My experience includes: system and application architecture, algorithms, pattern design, mobile and web applications ( back-end 70%, front-end 30%). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer ROW8 - Hollywood, CA May 2018 to Present Support and Development: Roku, Android, Tizen, LG, DRM, React-Express, Angular. Software Engineer DirectTV AT&T January 2018 to April 2018 Added Route Offer support to internal and external RESTful spring boot based Java microservices with following deployment with Jenkins and Kubernetes, tested route offer with Apigee and postman, implemented functional tests on Java with DevTest for automated tests with Jenkins, completed the whole cycle of CICD.  ? Developed Polymer based functionalities for UI with Java microservices as backend, deployed with Jenkins and Kubernetes, implemented Selenium functional tests on Java with DevTest for automated tests with Jenkins, completed the whole cycle of CICD.  ? Created documentations on implementation and testing of route offer with java microservices, Kubernetes and Apigee.  ? Configured environments for spring boot java microservices Route Offer on stages (Route Manager, Deployment Manager, Jenkins, Kubernetes, Docker, Kconfig, DevOps, API Registry)  ? Added Swagger annotations to spring boot java microservices  ? Worked on configuration of AppDynamics, Splunk and Prometheus for monitoring and analyzing the performance of spring boot java microservices in Route Offer environment Sr Software Developer Airebeam.com December 2015 to January 2018 Designed and implemented cost effective and high performance http rest web service combining single thread loop of node.js with docker based java microservices. The goal was to utilize the best sides of two approaches. Implemented node.js based orchestrator for routing requests according to their level and nature of compilation required. Implemented java-node npm based JNI wrapper and RabbitMQ messaging. Elaborated node.js based load test scenarios for evaluation of cost effectiveness and performance of the web service.    DVR project  ? Applying NGINX cloud based approach implemented Python/C++ DVR web service with API for mobile and TV box applications (Nginx, uWSGI, Python, C++, Ubuntu)  ? Developed scalable billing module to aggregate and report DVR usages to Emerald billing system via java microservices (Bitbucket, Jenkins, Kubernetes, AWS)    X-tech project (onestudio.tv). Applying micro-service and scalability concepts in designing and development achieved high performance of the system modules:  ? Implemented EC2 Ubuntu based asynchronous web service for live and VOD streaming for mobile applications and TV boxes (Java microservices, Docker)  ? Applying asynchronous SQS messaging implemented scalable Stripe based centralized billing web service for TV playout applications (Java microservices, Docker)  ? Implemented billing client apps (Roku, Android FireTV, Android Smartphone, Website ) with asynchronous communication to Java microservices based billing web-service (Spring boot, Stripe, Android, Bright Script).  ? Impemented scalable AWS based trans-coding service (Java microservices, EC2, S3, RDB, Elastic Transcoder, AWS Lambda, SNS, SQS) https://github.com/lsperf/transcoding_service  ? Designed and implemented TV CMS Playout module which uploads videos, trans-codes, streams, creates and schedules live channels, manages channels, manages VOD playlists and provides API for client playout applications (Java microservices, Spring boot, Spring MVC, Spring Security, JPA, Tymeleath)  ? Extended TV CMS Playout by adding TV Station category over Channels categories with 4 levels of administration roles (Java microservices, Spring boot, Spring MVC, Spring Security, JPA, Tymeleath)  ? Applying event based approach developed uniquely designed custom playout applications: Roku, Android Fire TV, Android Smartphone, Playout Website (Spring MVC)    Sipradius Project  ? Implemented: C# mono ServiceStack based Channel Maker CMA to create, update and generate Roku and Android apps (FireTV, Smartphone) on headless server with following download facilities. Version control CMS, Domain Manager. File Transfer service with multiple clients (C#, C, C++, Sockets, Java Microservices ) Sr Software Developer Monitis Inc - Yerevan, AM February 2015 to April 2015 Yerevan, Armenia    ? Implemented benchmark tests and performance analysis over Node.js vs io.js in particular environment of monitoring data flow  ? Developed Node.js http server for high load processing of incoming requests and storing into Hbase  ? Performance optimization. Implemented scheduled run of R Analysis tasks over Hbase to store aggregated data into Redis cached database. The result was much faster Analyzed Data delivery to Monitor UI Tools. Otherwise different R Analysis tasks take long time at runtime causing long wait at client side.  ? Performance optimization. Developed Asynchronous JMS messaging delivery of Analysed Data to Monitor UI Tools. This added even more speed of data delivery to UI Tools.  ? Implemented billing processing of Monitoring Service (Spring Boot, Spring MVC) Software Developer Sat-Solutions - Yerevan, AM November 2014 to January 2015 Yerevan, Armenia    ? Developed remote nodes for processing documents in Bank Loan Workflow.  ? Developed Client Web Application for UI administration of bank documents.  ? Implemented on page content editing. Customer Support functionality. Software Developer Freelancing - Yerevan, AM March 2010 to November 2014 Yerevan, Armenia    ? SEO web services  ? Custom CMS and Website Generators development  ? Lead pages and Websites generator  ? On-line Shops Development Software Developer Zenteq.am - Yerevan, AM May 2009 to March 2010 Yerevan, Armenia    ? Code redesign of Visual XSL editor into MVC controls  ? Adding XSLT based functionalities to Visual XSL editor Software Developer Lycos-Europe - Yerevan, AM March 2005 to March 2009 Yerevan, Armenia    ? Developed purchase applications with 3rd party payment providers support  ? Implemented login and shopping cart processing  ? Centralized module for registration and administration of customer data  ? Administration control over payment/customer data  ? Application receives web service requests from all system applications and stores various objects in xml database. Education Bachelor of Science Agricultural and Economics University - Yerevan, AM Skills JAVA (10+ years), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (2 years), Android (3 years), AWS (2 years), C# (2 years), Python (3 years), Javascript (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), React (3 years), Angular (2 years), Roku (3 years), Spring, JEE, Hibernate Additional Information Skills  Expert level: Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, AWS (EC2, S3, RDB, Elastic Transcoder, AWS Lambda, SNS, SQS), Roku, Tizen, Android, Python, (Django, Django Rest Framework), C# (Visual Studio, Monodevelop, ServiceStack), MVC5, React, Angular, JavaScript, jQuery, Apache, Tomcat, NGINX, uWSGI    Advanced level: C, C++, Node.js, Io.js, BrightScript, PHP, Laravel 4/5, Zend, PostgresSQL, MySql, SqlServer, FFmpeg (RTMP, HLS, MPEG-DASH), DRM (Widevine, PlayReady), Nimble Streaming, NAS, Jenkins, CICD, Kubernetes, Kubectl. Apigee, KConfig, RouteManager, CloudOps, DevTest, Selenium, Agile/Scrum/SAFe, R