Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Sukup Manufacturing Company Garner, IA 18+ years working on software, in both the development and support roles. Pursuing a position where I can  utilize my programming skills to make positive contributions to the team's effort.  Would like to learn front end javascript frameworks, Angular, React, etc...  Open to remote positions.    Skills:  Languages: SQL, C#, Java, Visual Basic, JavaScript, Jquery, HTML, AJAX, C++, XML, Xpath, PowerBuilder  Technologies: MS SQL Server, Visual Studio, .NET, SSRS, MVC, Eclipse, Mercurial Tortoise SVN, Microsoft TFS  Zebra/Motorola Mobile devices, Spiceworks  OS: Windows, Linux, Unix, Android Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Sukup Manufacturing Company - Sheffield, IA September 2015 to Present Job Description: Utilizing MS SQL server 2008 to write, modify and enhance performance of queries, stored procedures, functions, triggers and views to populate webpages, Zebra Mobile devices and SSRS reports. Program Zebra Mobile devices used by the shipping/loading departments for product shipment tracking, inventory, production status, etc.. Create and maintain SSRS reports using Visual Studio 2008. Creating new and maintaining old web pages on both the internal and external web sites.  Skills Used: SQL server 2008, SQL, C#, Visual Basic, .NET, HTML, Visual Studio Software Developer Iowa Select Farms - Iowa Falls, IA August 2014 to September 2015 Job Description: During my time at Iowa Select Farms (ISF) I have been involved in creating a web based ticketing system to be used by the maintenance department. From the database tables all the way up to user interface screens I have been heavily involved in the designing, writing and testing of this project.  Skills Used: SQL Server 2015, C#, MVC, .NET, RAZOR, Visual Studio, Jquery, JavaScript, HTML, Advanced REST Client, Windows Software Engineer III TeamQuest Corporation - Clear Lake, IA August 2007 to December 2013 Job Description: I started at TeamQuest on a pilot agile development team. Our duties were to learn and incorporate agile development methodologies into TeamQuest's engineering department.  After the agile pilot team, and agile methodologies were integrated into all of engineering, I was on the Reporting Team. Responsibilities included developing our proprietary reporting tool.  Later I volunteered to be on a new team that was created at TeamQuest named the Tactical Team. The team's responsibilities were 3rd level support of TeamQuest's product suite. We had live conference meetings with customers so they could demonstrate their problem, attempt to duplicate the issue in house, comb log files for clues, and debug the code.  Solutions were mostly in the form of a technical answer to the customer or a code change that was either integrated into the mainline of product code and/or sent to the customer as an EP (Emergency Patch).  Skills Used: Java, Eclipse, Visual Studio, C++, XML, Xpath, javascript, Mercurial, Windows, Unix. Software Developer Creative Solutions Unlimited, Inc - Sheffield, IA January 2001 to July 2007 Job Description: Worked in the PowerBuilder IDE  Developed, tested and debugged code in the Health Care Industry.  Our main application was used in nursing homes and care facilities to document and track medical records for residents, also for submitting Medicare, Medicaid, and third party claims.    Garner, IA 50438  Rgrummer1972@gmx.com  Cell: 641-425-6329    Certificates Of Completion:  Certified Scrum Master (CMS)  February 20, 2013 Education Bachelors in Computer Science Iowa State University - Ames, IA 1996 to 2000 Associate of Arts in Applied Science in Automotive Service Technology North Iowa Area Community College - Mason City, IA 1991 to 1993 Skills ASP, Javascript