Software developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Software developer - Molecular Testing Labs Portland, OR Work Experience Software developer Molecular Testing Labs May 2014 to Present Project description:  Lab information system (LIS) records, manages, and stores data for clinical laboratories includes order management, patient management, results management, data tracking, analytical reporting, workflow management, billing, third-party software integration etc.  Role and Responsibilities:  • Developing websites and web based software based on a defined set of business requirements using ASP.NET MVC and C#.  • Front & back end coding.  • Collaborate with developers, IT team, business analysts and Vendors for the requirements and tasks.  • Manage the priorities, deadlines and resources to meet business request.  • Design, develop, test and deploy the solution for Lab workflows, testing devices integration.  • Lead and guide junior developers for the development.  • Using technologies: C#, ASP.NET MVC, MS SQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Web Service Software Engineer Nike January 2014 to April 2014 Project description:  Order Engine-Commerce is a project that aims to transform Nike's existing order management features and functionality to a more agile and scalable system that allows for easier integration of inventory systems, system consolidation, geographic expansion, and provides premium (and necessary) near term and long term consumer experience capabilities.  Role and Responsibilities:  • Understanding the system and requirement.  • Provide prototypes for Automation solution.  • Collaborate with QA team to implement the automation solution.  • Using technologies: Java, Selenium, Oracle, JavaScript, JQuery, and Jenkins. Software developer 2005 to 2012 Project description:  Manufacture product collaborate and management tools securely stores and manages engineering information, design data, and documents - shortening the design-to-manufacturing process. It helps design, engineering and manufacturing departments collaborate and share digital prototyping information with multisite tools to connect workgroups across locations.  Role and Responsibilities:  • Maintain existing code, fix bugs, design and implement new features  • Design and implement high customizable and configurable feature so that user can customize and configure the business logics.  • Collaborate with customer support, developers and product manager for the solutions.  • Lead the team to investigate the solutions and prototypes.  • Design the architecture and implement the tool.  • Test the solution with QA teams.  • Using technologies: C++, MFC, COM, WCF, C#, ASP.NET, MS SQL Server, Oracle database Education Master of Software Engineering in Software Engineering Chongqing University Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Chongqing University Bachelor of Civil Engineering in Civil Engineering Chongqing University Skills ASP, CSS, WEB SERVICES, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, Javascript, MySQL, Git Additional Information Skills and Qualifications    • 13+ years of software development experience  • 8+ years of experience developing ASP .NET MVC with C#  • 8+ years of experience with Entity Framework and LINQ  • 7+ years of experience developing with C++, MFC, COM  • Strong Full Stack Developer  • Experience REST/SOAP web services  • Experience developing web applications using HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript and CSS  • Experience with Microsoft SQL Server including stored procedures, indexes and tune queries  • Unit Testing, Automation Testing  • Work independently and in groups to effectively participate in the software development lifecycle  • Experience in healthcare, e-commercial, product life cycle management domain  • Experience with GIT  • Software development life cycle((SDLC), ) methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall  • Analytical, solution-oriented and excellent trouble shooting.  • Decision Making and Critical Thinking, Initiative  • Good team player, ability to fast learn on the job  • Project delivery under stringent timelines and high pressure