Software Developer II <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> II Software Developer Seattle, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer II F5 Networks - Seattle, WA October 2016 to Present Technical Account Manager Deep Domain - Seattle, WA March 2015 to May 2016 Worked with a team of 5 to install and support the Deep Domain product. As a technical account manager I was responsible for providing customer support, new client installations, building new content and pretty much anything else that happened to come up during the course of the day. Software Developer Accretive Tech. Grp - Seattle, WA February 2010 to April 2013 Worked with a team of 7 to deliver live streaming video to our clients. As a member of the streaming/video  team I was responsible for building and maintaining features on both the client side and server side. This  included our Flash video clients and HTML5 client on the front end and flash media server and PHP on the server side. I was also responsible for maintaining the B-Line web browser for iOS devices..    • Worked on a LAMP stack (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP) along with JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, and SQL to develop the site.  • Used Actionscript, Flash and Javascript to develop the video client, along with Flash Media Server and  PHP on the back end.  • Ported the archive video player from AS1 to AS3  • Used Perl to work on back end tools.  • Performed analysis of customer data to find useful patterns or anomalies using MySQL and Splunk.  • Learned PHP, Actionscript and Objective-C on the job.  • Helped build and maintain the B-Line web browser for iOS devices. Software Developer Geospiza - Seattle, WA June 2006 to October 2009 Worked with a team of 5 to develop Geospiza's GeneSifter Lab Edition (GSLE) product, a web based ordering and workflow management application for gene sequencing labs. Responsible for gathering user requirements,  designing, and developing features in all areas of the application. Also responsible for developing several  automated pipeline tools that allowed lab technicians to analyze their data through a number of Next Gen  sequencing alignment tools via a simple and user friendly interface.    • Worked on a LAMP stack (Linux, Apache, PostgreSQL, Perl) along with JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, CSS and SQL to develop the GSLE system.  • Wrote multiple architecture documents for a variety of projects which were reviewed by the entire  development team. These documents defined how a team member should implement the project,  which include design specifications for both the classes and the database.  • Helped to develop and rewrite a portion of GSLE for version 3.0. This condensed many fragmented  sections of code, and significantly improved the speed of future development, as well as the ability of  QA to test for potential bugs.  • Used Ajax and JSON to allow users to upload an Excel file that was then used to fill out a grid of HTML  form fields. This greatly increased productivity, as users no longer needed to manually type hundreds or thousands of entries into our system, while maintaining the same error checking abilities of the existing  forms.  • Worked directly with one of our customers to gather user requirements.  • Worked on integrating BWA and SamTools into our application using multiple read formats such as  FASTA, FASTQ, SAM, BAM, GTF, and GFF. Education B.S. in Applied Computational and Mathematical Sciences (ACMS) University of Washington - Seattle, WA 2003 to 2007 Bioinformatics Certificate Stanford University 2013 Skills HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, XML, REST, PHP, Perl, Javascript, Actionscript (AS3), Server Side Actionscript (AS1), SQL, Software architecture, Object Oriented Programming, Database Design, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Git, CVS, Flash CS5, Splunk Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/eric-hobbs/17/42/670