Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer San Antonio, TX IT professional with 30 years of IT experience in designing, developing, maintaining and supporting applications for a large customer base. Proven ability to collaborate with business users and translate their needs into technical solutions that support the company's business objectives and to successfully manage all phases of IT projects from needs analysis and requirements definition through design, implementation, and training. Work Experience Software Developer USAA Life Company 2011 to 2017 Developed and maintained Java web applications which support the Life Insurance underwriting process. These include a needs analysis calculator, online enrollment and payment, and Health and Lifestyle Questionnaire. Primary developer for all JRules rule changes for Life Company. Supervised, coordinated and code reviewed Java development efforts of multiple third-party contractors. Provided on-call support and was the primary level3 backup to the help desk for any calls related to the underwriting applications. Our team was collectively responsible for three consecutive years of best-ever pain-per-member-contact results. Software Developer Wealth Management Company at USAA 1998 to 2011 Primary developer on the team that produced all the CRM applications needed by the newly formed Wealth Management Company at USAA. This included member contact tracking, payment processing, financial planning calculators, and an online financial questionnaire. Key contributions include an enrollment process that automatically imported member contact info from enterprise databases and a sophisticated task workflow process designed to be user-configurable to allow it to be easily adapted to evolving needs. Lead Programmer M&M Computers 1987 to 1998 Developed and maintained Medical Billing and Accounting applications and the related computer networks used by multiple Physicians located across 5 states. Key contributions include applications to electronically submit claims and to automatically process payments and apply them to appropriate invoices. Education Master's in Information Technology UTSA - San Antonio, TX September 2000 to December 2002 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Texas A&M 1985 Skills C# (7 years), Crystal reports (7 years), Datastage (1 year), DB2 (6 years), Eclipse (10+ years), J2EE (10+ years), Java (10+ years), JSP (6 years), Junit (4 years), Linux (6 years), Unix (10+ years), Maven (Less than 1 year), Microsoft office (10+ years), ODBC (10+ years), IBM JRules/ODM (6 years), Rest (2 years), SOAP (3 years), Oracle (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), MySQL, Javascript Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect October 2018 to Present Oracle Certified Professional Java SE 8 Programmer June 2017 to Present Oracle Certified Professional Java SE 6 Programmer Present