Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer Sun Valley, CA Work Experience Senior Software Developer Entertainment Partners - Burbank, CA 2008 to Present Key Accomplishments  } Successfully delivered code in a responsive manner, utilized SCRUM for Agile development and participated in team-led solutions, applying Bitbucket to review peer's code for quality and completeness.  } Worked in coordination with business analysts to write stories in Jira of functionality required on major accounting modules in Production Accounting System; including Purchase Order, Invoice and Journal Entry developed in C# with a Sql Server backend.  } Assisted in analyzing and resolving complex client issues and also mentored new software developers in the codebase as well as accounting features.  } Served as part of team that developed Production Accounting System from ground floor that garnered reputation as best in industry, with tools used including C# and SQL Server, system utilized custom MVC framework that employed CodeSmith/  netTiers to generate the necessary database scaffolding.  } Created new modules and added functionality to existing modules using C# Winforms for the UI, and added Web Service methods, Stored Procs and cache methods as necessary to support accessing data for the forms.  } Analyzed data access as system increased in size to improve performance, also took lead role on interfacing with internal accounting department to develop modules required for corporate accounting.  } Worked closely with analysts to determine optimum way to implement new accounting features and helped bridge the gap between development staff and the business needs. Senior Software Developer Axium Entertainment - Los Angeles, CA 2003 to 2008 Key Accomplishments  } Served as lead programmer for team working on Production Accounting system, with key tasks involving maintenance upgrades to system as well as updates to satisfy customer enhancement requests.  } Interfaced with customer support group to determine developer priorities and provide 2nd level support for customer issues and mentored other developers to understand software functionality. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer/Management Science Metropolitan State College - Denver, CO Bachelor of Science in Accounting State University of New York at Albany - Albany, NY Skills SQL SERVER, ORACLE, SQL, JIRA, C# Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS Tools - Jira. Git, Bitbucket, Sourcetree, Jenkins, Redgate, Subversion (TortoiseSVN), Cruise Control    Databases - SQL Server, Oracle • Languages - C#, Java, JavaScript    CORE COMPETENCIES    • Successfully analyze, review, design, and implement IT solutions to service diversity of business and organizational needs.  • Use technology to enhance efficiencies, manage new/ongoing applications, and produce user friendly operational systems.  • Employ team collaboration to produce high quality, measurable, and sustainable outcomes in meeting goals and timelines.  • Actively engage in business related assessment in the provision of IT development, testing, deployment, and maintenance.  • Flexible, adaptable, creative problem solver, maintain emphasis on provision of service excellence to critical stakeholders.    ? Assess/analyze technology, resource needs, and software features/requirements.  ? Produce, test, revise, and implement software designs to meet diversity of needs.  ? Customize software applications and create practical based user-friendly systems.  ? Finish full cycle of projects, complete design solutions, timetables, and objectives.  ? Implement improvements in processes and high-level work accuracy/efficiency.  ? Engage in problem analysis and situational assessment in designing of solutions.