Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer San Angelo, TX Highly-skilled software development professional bringing more than 15 years in software design, development and integration. Work Experience Software Developer MultiChem - Houston, TX February 2008 to March 2019 • Collaborated on all stages of systems development lifecycle, from requirements gathering to production releases.  • Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement in fast-paced environment.  • Converted application mockups into HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, .Net and JSON applications.  • Collaborated with other developers to identify and alleviate number of bugs and errors in software.  • Helpdesk support for hardware, software (Microsoft Office products), internal applications and IPhone support.  • Designed and developed reports using SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Detail-oriented, organized, quick learner and able to work at a fast-pace with tight deadlines.  • Mobile application software development, design and prototyping.  • Evaluated code to ensure that it is valid and is properly structured.  • Administer, manage and configure web, SQL, and windows servers.  • Developed databases that supported Web and Windows applications.  • Mentored and managed offshore contractors and assigned daily tasks.  • Developed asp.net forms and SQL scripts that significantly decreased data entry and transactional processing.  • Wrote fleet workflow application to track, purchase and approve movement of trucks, trailers, forklifts, tanks, tools etc.  • Planned and scheduled network downtime for maintenance.  • Requested, managed and implemented SSL Certificates for Web servers.  • Converted Microsoft Access application to a web based application with SQL database as the backend to enhance application performance and availability.  • Successful in maintaining close working relationship with customers, vendors and contractors. Web Developer Verizon - San Angelo, TX April 2001 to February 2008 • Supported onsite and offsite employees find solutions to issues they may be having with software.  • Designed, built and maintained Web sites and company databases, using authoring or scripting languages and digital media.  • Backed up files, Databases, Web sites to optical disk drives for instant recovery in case of problems.  • Performed Web Application security testing on all new products.  • Identified problems uncovered by testing or customer feedback and corrected problems.  • Aided the team in creating and updating our department's internal website as well as perform presentations/training sessions to remote company offices.  • Performed website/windows applications testing and updates according to planned schedule prior to publishing to production servers.  • Trained new employee on systems, software, and services.  • Created, handled and monitored trouble tickets using custom online ticketing system, routed tickets, and participated in support bridges with on-call groups during outages.  • Performed upgrades, updates and patches to servers, pc's and laptops as well as software updates and performed wiring of network connections.  • Collaborated with department managers to create monthly reports for workforce planning.  • Automated our ordering system from a dot matrix printer to a digital format, scanned (screen scraping) the data and imported into a database thus reducing headcount and errors.  • I was part of the on-call support staff for departmental servers. Education Associate of Applied Science in Business Howard College - Big Spring, TX May 1990 Skills DATABASE, MICROSOFT ACCESS, SQL, SQLITE, INTERFACE DESIGN, DATA MANAGEMENT, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, SOFTWARE TESTING Additional Information SKILLS  • Interface design and implementation  • Mobile Development  • Net development  • SQL Database  • Microsoft Access  • Planning    • Microsoft Office products  • Data management  • Software testing  • SQLite Database  • Excel  • Troubleshooting