Student Lead Student Lead Software Developer, Technical Consultant Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Student Lead Associated Students, Inc - Long Beach, CA August 2017 to May 2019 •Analysing the work load for the week and planning the weekly schedule.  •Assigning appropriate students according to their class schedules to appropriate shifts and tasks.  •Planning for various event setups in the building and having them ready before time.  •Prioritize different tasks and delegate responsibilities to student employees.  •Attending leads monthly meetings.  •Planning ahead for any unforeseen circumstances.  •Special attention to the maintaining the supplies, machineries and closets.  •Tracking the supplies and planning ahead to have them delivered.  •Different miscellaneous and special projects. Software Developer, Technical Consultant IYCON India Pvt. Ltd December 2014 to June 2016 Languages and design patterns used: Java, MVC, JavaScript, JQuery, Node Js, C#.NET, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS, AJAX.  Database: Oracle SQL, Oracle PL/SQL, Microsoft SQL Server.  • Developed software applications and plugins, involved with deployments on staging, UAT servers and production  rollouts to enhance the functionality of QPR and M-Files systems using Java, JavaScript, C#, MS SQL, PL/SQL.  • Enhanced the UI of various portals to make it responsive using HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS  • Designed and developed system for cross-platform, cross-domain data delivery, authorizations and automated  hierarchy generation using NodeJS, JavaScript, VBScript, and JQuery.  • Designed databases, developed complex queries scripts and integration with web applications through RESTful APIs.  • Interacted with client for requirement gathering and requirements analysis, identified and resolved bugs in the system for testing team.  Important Projects:  • Data migration tool (2015): Developed an application in Java which reads entries from an external system in the Oracle database and inserts the data in each element of the QPR model. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science California State University - Long Beach, CA May 2019 Bachelor of Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2014 Skills Eclipse, Java, Spring, jquery, Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, C++, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, ASP, CSS, HTML 5, Android, PHP Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/harshal-karande Additional Information Computer Skills:  • Programming languages: Java, C#, Python, PHP, C, C++  • Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, RESTful API, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, JSON, AWS Solution architect-  Associate (In-progress).  • Frameworks: .NET MVC, MVVM, WPF, Spring MVC, Node JS  • Database: RDBMS concepts, Oracle SQL, Oracle PL/SQL, Microsoft SQL Server, MySql  • Platform / Tools: Git, Visual Studio, NetBeans, Eclipse