Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Altair Engineering Troy, MI Independent & quality-oriented software engineer /w > 12 years programming experience. Looking for a long-term position with the power to make architectural decisions & write maintainable, performant code. Work Experience Software Engineer Altair Engineering 2018 to Present - Part of team developing Inspire Motion Mutli-Body Dynamics plugin for Altair Inspire, a simulation-focused CAD tool.  - Advised technical management on plugin loading architecture, massively speeding up program startup time for major client.  - Communicated with recently acquired fluid dynamics product team to resolve bugs with their product's data input format; advised them to use spherical instead of linear interpolation to interpolate part rotations. Independent Software Developer Independent Projects 2007 to Present INJECTION 2014 – Ongoing  Skills Used: Python, Cython, RSA, Amazon & Google cloud hosting  - Video game written in three days for a game making competition in 2014 that expanded in to a larger project.  - Used Cython, a compiled variant of Python, for performance-critical features.  - Due to the project’s need to be publicly available while in development, automatic update infrastructure had to be developed, currently running on a Google Cloud Services instance, migrated from Amazon EC2. Uses RSA public-key signatures to verify authenticity of update files.     PDMG 2014  Skills used: Integrating in to existing codebase in unfamiliar language  - Lua plugin for physics sandbox game, was asked to maintain it by original developer  - Was broken by an API change, fixed several bugs and began adding features within days despite no knowledge of Lua or the API    Tree Tally 2013  Skills used: Business systems design  - Developed UI & backend for data collection tool for forestry business     Volunteer Opportunity Portal 2013  Skills used: Backend web development, cryptography, SQL database  - Website backend developed for local charitable organization  - Handled securely storing hashed passwords,  - Project was cancelled shortly in to development of database backend    Transcendence Extensions 2007-2013  Skills used: XML, Lisp, working with poorly-documented APIs  - Made several plugins for game, scripted in LISP with data and scripts stored in XML files. Had to reverse-engineer existing scripts to learn undocumented API. Education High school or equivalent Skills Git, Python (6 years), Linux Links https://gitlab.com/toastengineer