SR. SOFTWARE ENGINEER SR. <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> ENGINEER SOFTWARE ENGINEER III NCR Fort Worth, TX Microsoft certified Professional: https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/a179aa12-d6f9-4481-83d4-1084116ca9ed/linked_in_profile  xperienced with multiple technology in software developments for client side and server backend side. Experienced and knowledge of SOLID coding principle and multi-tier project solutions and Web APIs, micro services and queuing systems, multi-tenant database. Extensive familiarity several of code repositories, windows server’s platforms from installation to configuration of networking, desktop, LDAP and SQL.  Vast knowledge in various industries and able to identify issue in software in short amount of time in most cases. Ability to be team player and resolve problems and conflicts professionally. Work Experience SR. SOFTWARE ENGINEER WABTEC - BNSF May 2015 to Present Responsibilities: Maintain, improve and support existing product of Train Management Dispatching System with team of 7 developers and several test teams.    • Accomplishment solved intermittent two plus year old issues in regard to server application unable to perform certain function.  • Client applications: WPF, MVC web site; service is Web API v2.0; Windows service to process data; MS SQL 2012 and 2016 database. Create service to push data to azure for analytic and reporting, design graph reports using business intelligent and create report web sites. Created Rabbit MQ, and Microsoft Orleans monitoring system windows service.  • Create development - test environment web site in MVC and REST for dev team and test team to add-remove workstation(s), server(s) and configuration, in process of transferring to .Net Core 2.0 reason is performance improvement, and UI using angular 4/5. Web site consist of fairly complex java script to draw representation of the train tracks for various territories, estimate of 470.  • Create a scheduling application for train with intensive geometric calculation, involve speed, time, and acceleration, braking and stopping.  • All the web and services are using VS 2017, and the windows apps in VS 2015. Help other developer to create poco and read write code using tsql to generate the code. The team are slowly moving to C# due to some limitation in VB.NET. SR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER AUTOSTAR SOLUTION January 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities: Developed new web sites from concept to final product with architecture and requirement documentation for various internal companies, maintain existing reporting web sites and its database, and customer database an estimate of 600+.    Project: One external website https://insight.autostarsolutions.com. It is a reporting application, in .NET MVC-Razor. Using WCF as the data service. Extensive and complicated financial system web portal payment code management. Review code that is checked in to the TFS for possible issues. Provide technical .NET at design level.  • Developed an extended application ("dll") for integration to existing windows application to integrate with other financial services and other services like GPS. Created multiple WCF services and deployed to Azure. Maintenance of existing .NET applications Windows-click once WPF with MVVM programming style. Web applications, deploy to internal network and some to Azure. Responsible for report website from deployment, QA, and design. Web site created in MVC C#, and windows services to process scheduled reports. Estimate total scheduled report is 2200+. Working with accounting software to integrate the reporting system, familiarity with accounting system and accounting terms. Multi-threading to read and write to 600+ data bases using Parallel in .Net 4.5 C#. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER BASSCOMPANIES / BARBNET September 2009 to December 2013 Responsibilities: Maintenance of existing other websites, windows applications and all SQL- accounting jobs. Introduce RDBMS design for any future application. Familiarity with accounting system and accounting terms. Developed new websites for various internal companies.    Project: One external website www.ccsecurity.com. It is an employment application, in .NET- ASPX. Using WCF as the data service. It also has an internal website to manage the internal data and external data to be display for the external web-site. An extensive and complicated T-SQL to calculate future for the investment executive team, result presentation using .NET-ASPX and RLDC report. Active Directory collections, collect all AD all detail data, stored in SQL and display charts and graphs in asp.net and make search easy for IT team to find any AD-LDAP object, in addition ad WCF to use for other app to register user SOFTWARE DEVELOPER, TEKSYSTEM - CONTRACTOR SPTEMBER 2009 to March 2009 Responsibilities: Develop business applications, for a company uses DB2 that connect to the as400, replacing RPG green screen using asp.net. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER GAME SYSTEM September 2007 to March 2009 Responsibilities: Maintaining existing enterprise system, consist of server-side application web form, web service, multiple SQL databases (store procedures, views, triggers, and jobs). Client-Server sides consist of Point of Sale client in win-form, back office point of sale client-server windows service application and SQL database. Client-server game terminals in COM and game client application in macromedia director, macromedia flash, and win form .Net framework 2.0. Client Kiosk application in .NET framework 1.1, hardware such as RS 232, custom NIC from lonworks and Native C.  • Aid the support team and tester team to test minor releases and feature add-ons.  • Aid the new programmers and outside vendor programmers to integrate their product to the existing enterprise system. New enterprise project development SOFTWARE DEVELOPER WESTEC INTERACTIVE July 2005 to September 2007 Responsibilities: Maintaining existing projects ranging from large projects to small projects and integration into existing central dispatching CCTV monitoring system.  Projects are ranging from large projects to small projects and integration into existing application. Programming languages used: C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, ASP, VB, SQL 2000/2005, C/C++ All Source code maintenance is using Source Safe Using Visual Studio 2003 to generate Windows Application VB.NET, VB, Windows Services in C#, Web Services and Web Application in C#. Using Visual Studio 2005, to generate Remoting TCP/IP, HTTP protocol application and custom object collection to pass data back and forth, with SQL express and some MSDE on the client machine to store some data. All configurations data are using XML format and all data transfer through remoting is serialized. Hardware interface application integration using C++ and VB.NET generate COM, and generate wrapper and interface for other application to use. Applications type developed are Security System database, and hardware interface. Point of Sale data processing for security and audit. Design and develop complex application solution. Develop design documentation and end user documentation. Using Microsoft Practices foundation codes. Responsibilities: Maintain existing Perl Point of Sale and rewrite using .Net framework 2.0 in C#, project was completed. Project using SQL express on each client and using SQL enterprise on the central server sides. Integration with outside vendor's application for real time transactions process. - New development monitoring systems in C# and vb.net for system monitor and conceptual web form development for the web developer for final deployment. - Hardware interfacing development such as RS232 for alarm system integration to its new enterprise system, multi-threading system to process incoming alarm. PROGRAMMER FORT WORTH TOWER March 2002 to July 2005 Responsibilities: Maintain existing win form application in Lisp, C++, VB6 and VB.Net and database. Support engineers and draftsman for application issues and new features. New 3-Dimensional development using win form in vb.net SQL database and AutoCAD to provide as the graphics engine.  • Provide application for Engineering and Drafting department. Maintain existing codes. Using Visual Basic.NET 2005, MS Access, MS. Excel, SQL 6 SQL 2000.  • Maintain all existing application written in Visual Basic, VBA, and Lisp routine. Responsible for new software projects from beginning to the completion. Maintain all source code using source safe Using Visual Studio 2005 to generate Windows Application, and AutoCAD automation process. Generate DLL projects for other application use.  • Provide Windows based desktop client-server application and database application using Rapid Development method (RAD). Designed database to store information and use the information for the Business development. Support maintains and do upgrade for the business/engineering quote application. Application purpose is to generate product quote. The product quote contains drawing and partial business intelligent to get to the best output to the client in presentation. Application generated using VB. 2002: Generate limited windows based desktop application to read real time data from jet engine model RR-405 all block, total of 50 blocks. Using windows based to interface with another real time black box written in C using Data Light Real time OS. The windows bases are continuously receiving data and store it to database to be analyze by the operator of the Engine test. Client side was using VB6 and server side was using C with real time operating system. 2001: Application purpose is to get the distance and from the original place to the destination place and calculate the number of the boxes to find the total square footage needed. Application generated using VB. Database use is MS Access and VB6 for the client side. Project length was 4 months. 1999: generate modules for steel beam loading analysis using VB3-Business desktop quote application 1999: Generated small custom desktop business application to quote using VB5.Guyed tower field assembly instruction, Application is to gather all the necessary information to assembly tower communication in the field. Application is generated using various tools, Excel, Macintosh and AutoCAD Lisp. PROGRAMMER, INDEPENDENT CONSULTANT 1999 to 2002 Projects:  - Create business / engineering application using Visual Basic to generate and calculate Hoist Crane Sales quote.  - Create test application that interface to jet engine model RR-405 Education BACHELOR SCIENCE OF TECHNOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX June 2004 to 2007 ASSOCIATE DRAFTING AND TECHNOLOGY ITT TECH June 1994 to 1996 Skills SQL (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), VB.NET (8 years), C# (6 years), ASP (6 years), Python Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/hokky-tjahjono-5b873212 http://hokky.com Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) March 2019 to Present https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/a179aa12-d6f9-4481-83d4-1084116ca9ed/linked_in_profile Additional Information SKILLS  • Analyzed existing complex source code and identify possible of bug, and or failure  • Application Container solution  • Configurations solution  • Services  • Office product suites add-on / customization  • Multi-tenant database    • C#, vb.net, VBA  • T-SQL  • SSIS packages  • Web APIs: asmx, WCF and RESTful  • ASP.NET  • MVC, client side  • WPF  • MVVM  • XAMARIN  • XNA  • RabbitMQ  • Microsoft Orleans