Manager, CQI IT Manager, CQI IT Manager, CQI IT Chicago, IL Work Experience Manager, CQI IT American College of Surgeons - Chicago, IL March 2016 to June 2019 Primary Responsibilities  ? Management of all internal and outsourced technical projects within clinical program registries.  ? Management of IT staff composed of developers, support, data managers and, where applicable, external consultants.  ? Project management of internal IT projects to ensure projects are delivered on time and as specified.  ? Providing technical expertise and guidance to vendor management teams and internal registry teams.  ? Oversee design and participate in the development of registry software tools, intranet applications, and registry reports for sites, internal teams, and regulatory agencies.  ? Supervise data management, processing, validation, and the exporting and importing of data with vendors and internally for risk adjusted reports and special data sets for research and regulatory requirements.    Secondary Responsibilities  ? Implement, maintain and support software according to requirements. Software Developer American College of Surgeons - Chicago, IL March 2011 to March 2016 Primary Responsibilities  ? Implement, maintain and support software according to requirements.    Secondary Responsibilities  ? Thoroughly understand the relationship between applications and databases in order to provide technical advice to management.    Notable Accomplishments  ? Acted as architect and lead developer for a web-based Content Management System that was custom-built to meet the needs of multiple stakeholders and end users.  ? In conjunction with the statistical team, created an on-demand risk adjusted surgical performance report that is updated nightly from an external vendor's data feed.    Technologies Used  ? Java, SQL (Oracle), Javascript, Dart, HTML5, CSS3, .NET, C# .NET / WinForms Software Developer Scoop Computing Solutions, Inc - Chicago, IL October 2010 to March 2011 Primary Responsibilities  ? Implement, maintain and support software according to requirements.    Notable Accomplishments  * Apollo Annuity Report  ? Architected and developed the web and data access layer of the application.  ? Created a Windows Service in C# .NET that keeps the application in sync with legacy systems.  ? Helped administer the project's SQL server, designing schemas and writing stored procedures.    Technologies Used  ? Java, SQL (MS SQL Server), Javascript, HTML, CSS, .NET, C# Software Developer Digital Primates, LLC - Chicago, IL November 2009 to October 2010 Primary Responsibilities  ? Implement, maintain and support software according to requirements.    Notable Accomplishments  * Online Reporting Center @ Northern Trust  ? Architected and implemented key application modules.  ? Provided regular code maintenance and debugging.  ? Contributed to back-end service layer as well as database changes including modifying tables and stored procedures.  ? Wrote general and detailed technical documentation.  * Became Adobe Certified Expert in Flex 3 with AIR    Technologies Used  ? Adobe Flex 3, Java, SQL (Oracle) Software Developer (Consultant) Advanced Sales Corporation - Chicago, IL June 2009 to August 2009 Primary Responsibilities  ? Implement, maintain and support software according to requirements.    Notable Accomplishments  * Annuity Intelligence Report  ? Implemented user interfaces based on graphic designer's specifications.  ? Made minor modifications to server-side C# code as needed.    Technologies Used  ? DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, C# Software Developer Allston Trading, LLC - Chicago, IL February 2007 to June 2009 Primary Responsibilities  ? Implement, maintain and support software according to requirements.    Notable Accomplishments  * Trading Gateway Monitoring Suite  ? Served as primary architect and developer  ? This multi-threaded, client-server system monitored the health of the firm's trading gateways in real time, notifying the Operations Team in the event of exchange disconnection, latency and other critical events.  * Real-Time Profit and Loss Report  ? This application listened to several UDP multicasts for changes in position and price of products in order to calculate the firm's profits and losses.  * Human Resources Intranet Web Application  ? This system allowed the HR department to maintain employee records and track time off, attendance.  ? Integrated attendance component with firm's key card door entry system.  ? Created report to assist HR with payroll.  * Additional Web-Based Utilities  ? These include numerous database front-ends, reports and trading-specific tools.    Technologies Used  ? Java, Adobe Flex 3, PHP, JavaScript, MS SQL Server Software Developer ASA Sales Systems, LLC - Chicago, IL December 2004 to February 2007 Primary Responsibilities  ? Implement, maintain and support software according to requirements.  ? Manage all IT needs of the company including network, printers and software installs.    Notable Accomplishments  * Business-to-Business Sales Management Web Application  ? Developed new features and fixed bugs.  ? Managed and delegated tasks with vendor.  ? Developed an integration point with Salesforce online CRM.    * Company Website  ? Converted the existing static site into one that is dynamic and easier to maintain, improving support for clients and affiliates.  ? Added multiple protected sections to the site, validated users with sales management application.  ? Created a Flash-based bulletin board.  * Miscellaneous  ? Administered the web and database servers.  ? Served as tier 1 and tier 2 customer support.  ? Administered the company network.    Technologies Used  ? PHP, MS SQL Server, DHTML, JavaScript, Adobe Flash, FreeBSD Software Developer (Consultant) Chicago, IL July 2004 to December 2004 Primary Responsibilities  ? Implement, maintain and support software according to requirements.    Notable Accomplishments  * Developed online store, FamousAmericanFoods.com  * Created version of online store for thin-client touch screen public kiosks.    Technologies Used  ? Classic ASP, MS SQL Server, DHTML, JavaScript Software Developer Comp Innovations - Chicago, IL October 2000 to July 2004 Primary Responsibilities  ? Implement, maintain and support software according to requirements.    Notable Accomplishments  * Industrial Parts Catalog, Window desktop application  * Sales Management Web Application (same product from ASA Sales Systems)  * Modularized Shopping Cart System    Technologies  ? C++, PHP, MS SQL Server, MFC, STL, HTML, JavaScript Education Harold Washington College - Chicago, IL 1998 to 2000 DeVry University - Chicago, IL 1997 to 1998