Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Ellucian Mexico, MO • +4 years' experience as Team Leader  • +18 years' experience as a software developer.  • A dedicated and enthusiastic key member, able to motivate teams to perform at their best.  • Strong OOP experience.  • Effective stakeholder management  • Highly organized and strong meeting planning; able to communicate effectively with all organizational levels, building relationships of trust.  • Good knowledge of Agile and waterfall project management methodologies.  • Well Known for ability to produce high-quality deliverables that meet or exceed timeline and budgetary targets.  • Good English level, A skilled communicator able to establish rapport with members of diverse groups.  • Experienced leader with a management style that motivates staff productivity    Project Manager/Team Leader/ Software Developer  Secondary Profile: Gathering and analysis of requirements and delivery of solutions Work Experience Software Developer Ellucian April 2017 to Present Current Date  • Senior Developer in different PL SQL Projects  • Responsible to create web applications with Oracle technology  • Responsible to create different JAVA Applications.    Functional Experience: Senior Developer, Web development experience. Background processes experience.  Highlights: Java, JavaScript, SQL, HTML, CSS, Oracle Forms, 11G, Maven, GitHub Team Leader / Software Developer Mérida, Yucatán December 2013 to Present Current Date  • Project Leader/Sr Developer in different REST web services developed for external and internal clients.  • Responsible to create web applications with different technologies as Java, Ruby on Rails, JQuery, Angular JS, Oracle Database, MySQL Database, etc.  • Responsible to create different JAVA Applications.  • Server's report responsible.    Functional Experience: Team Leader experience, Web development experience. Background processes experience.  Highlights:  Java, JSP, SQL, HTML, CSS, JSON, REST, Angular JS, Oracle Forms, Oracle 9i, 10G 11G, Rational Software, ANT, PowerShell, Maven, GitHub, WebLogic 10.3.6, Clear Case, Jira, Perl, Visio, MS Project, Harvest Tech Leader / Software Developer /Project Manager VeriFone Inc June 2005 to November 2013 • Project Manager in different Projects with stakeholders like American Express, Banorte, Bancomer, Banamex, PROSA, Etc.  • Software developer in the effort to implement a solution for supporting EMV chip cards in México and Latin and south America Region with BANAMEX.  • Created web applications and web reports with Servlets and JSP applications using technologies like JQUERY, JSON, XML, JavaScript  • Organize and lead meetings with final clients working mainly with Extreme Programming methodology.  • Developed testing tools with JUNIT java tool.  • Main Developer in our ISO8583 Gateway.  • Main Developer with some Pin pad terminals    Functional Experience:  Project management, Project estimations. Define functional specifications. Develop functional prototype. Write user interface specification, and design database. Write back-end code to support web interfaces and exposed services.    Highlights: MS Project, JAVA 2EE, Dream weaver, JavaScript, HTML, Oracle PL/SQL, Visio, MS Project, Erwin, ANT, JQuery, JSON, Junit, CVS Tech Leader /SR Developer Comercial Mexicana June 2004 to June 2005 • Worked at first National Distribution Center of Comercial Mexicana Group  • Database design and procedures development for the daily work of the distribution center.  • Developed, tested and supported Database Stored procedures on different databases like Oracle, Sybase and SQL Server.  • Development of Unix shells to execute many Queries and Database Objects.  • Development of web applications and web reports with ASP Microsoft Technology and HighJump Software.  • Organization and leadership of meetings with internal clients.    Functional Experience:  Project management and Project estimations. Define functional specifications. Develop functional prototype. Write user interface specification, and design database. Write back-end code to support web interface. Program Management Methodology. Sr Developer    Highlights:  High Jump Software, ASP, Microsoft Visual Basic, JavaScript, VBScript, HTML, SQL Server, Visio, MS Project, Erwin, Sybase, Power Builder. Software Developer Estambres Alta Lana Millor January 2004 to June 2004 • Design, Developed, Tested and Supported in-house developed software.  • Development of reports with Crystal Reports tool.  • In house Software developed with Visual Basic and ASP technology with SQL Server Database.    Functional Experience: Software Developer  Highlights: Visual Basic, Crystal Reports, SQL server, ASP, JavaScript, VBScript Software Developer Giaterm October 2001 to December 2003 • Design, Developed, Tested and Supported bespoke software for many clients. Mainly developed with Oracle Forms, Microsoft Visual Basic, Borland Delphi, Borland C and ASP Microsoft Technology.  • Database Design for many clients using ERWING Data Modeling Software based on client's requirements..  • Organization and leadership of meetings with clients, for example: BellSouth Perú, City Hall of Guanajuato, City Hall of Torreón, etc.  • Estimations and functional specifications design.    Functional Experience:  Project management and project control. Project estimations. Functional specifications design. Prototype's development. User interface specification, and database design. Back-end code writing.    Highlights: ERWING, Oracle Forms, PL/SQL, Visual Basic, Borland C, Delphi Education Bachelor in Computer Science in Computer Science Universidad Mexicana - Veracruz, MX 1998 to 2001 Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows Family, Unix, Linux and Solaris  Programming Languages and technologies related  Java (+12 years), JSP, ASP, PHP, Borland C++, Servlets, XML/XSL, Swing, JavaScript, HTML, Pascal, Visual Basic, Perl, PowerShell Scripting, Angular JS, jQuery, SQL, Ruby on Rails. Vadin    Databases: Oracle, Sybase, Firebird, MySQL, SQL Server  App. Servers: OAS, TOMCAT, WebLogic 10.3.6, IIS  Other:  Eclipse, Rational Clear case, Rational Rose, Control Version System, GIT, FrontPage, Dreamweaver, Erwin, Visio, Microsoft Project, Maven, ANT, EGIT