Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - American Airlines Senior Microsoft .NET developer with 15 years' experience in building web based.NET applications using the best practices of SOA architectures and REST API's. Extensive knowledge in ASP.NET MVC, C#, Razor View Engine, Web Service, WCF, jQuery, SQL Server, SSRS, SSIS, Visual Studio, TFS, Object Oriented Concepts, Design Patterns, LINQ, Entity Framework.  • Expertise in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)-Requirements Definition, Design, Documentation, Development, Testing, Integration, Implementation, troubleshooting and maintenance.  • Expertise in Web Application using .NET Framework, ASP.NET MVC, C#, Razor UI Framework, Web Services (WSDL, UDDI, DISCO, and SOAP), ADO.NET, WCF, REST, JSON.  • Expertise in front-end Technologies like JavaScript, Angular, React, Node.js, jQuery, Single Page Application (SPA), HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, web design etc.  • Expertise in System Architecture, Design Patterns including Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Model View Controller (MVC), Facade, Factory, Singleton, Dependency Injection, Inversion of Control.  • Expertise in SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 and Oracle database design, development of Schemas, Tables, Views, Indexes, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions and Triggers, Transaction Management, T-SQL/PL-SQL, Code optimization and performances.  • Expertise in Microsoft tools such as SSIS, SSRS.  • Expertise in updating, accessing and version controlling of source code using Visual Source Safe (VSS), Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Expertise in Agile - SCRUM development methodologies.  • Expertise in working with .NET features like Events & Delegates, Generics & Collections, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Serialization.  • Expertise in creating Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams like Class, Sequence and Use Case diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Extensively worked in Unit Testing, Regression Testing, Integration Testing, Defect Tracking Systems (Quality Center) and Performance testing of the software systems. Work Experience Senior Software Developer American Airlines October 2015 to Present Description:  AVBA is used to award the Vacation Bid created by LUS and LAA pilots on Seniority basis using AVBA application. Vacation Bids are created in four electronic rounds (Round 1, Round 2, Round 3 and Round 4). For each round minimum of 7 days is needed for creating bids. All rounds (Round 1 - 4) have Open Date, Closed Date and Published Date respectively. Pilots once created the Vacation Bids for all rounds within closed date, then after the Vacation Bid Awarding, the awarded bids are published in published date. Default award will be awarded for the Pilot even though the Pilot not biding for any particular rounds.  Responsibilities:  • Interact with business owners to get requirements, scope and acceptance criteria to develop/test in agile.  • Designed and developed web applications using ASP.NET, MVC 5, Web API, C#, Entity Framework, SQL Server and Oracle.  • Design, develop and test REST services to interact with Flight Hub real time system using Microsoft WebAPIs.  • Implemented object-relational mapping (ORM) using Entity Framework.  • Responsible for writing the LINQ queries to process and retrieve the database objects.  • Design database tables, schemas, procedures and views.  • Optimized query performance to make the process quick and accurate.  • Extract and process data from different sources using SSIS.  • Created reports for various business teams using SSRS.  • Analyze current systems and processes. And make recommendations which yield a more cost effective software application.  • Evaluate and recommend software solutions for American Airlines flight operations integration, crew scheduling, awarding software, applications and tools projects/applications/systems.  • Work with other team members to ensure that projects and best practices coding standards are enforced.  • Determine system performance standards. Document code, processes and services consistently throughout the design and development process by creating process flow diagrams, design documents, Test Plans, Code documentation, API documentation, special instructions and document any changes made to the system, module, service, database design and procedure.  • Write and execute automated unit and integration test cases using NUnit. Conduct functional and non-functional testing.  • Make presentations to clients, professional peers, American Airlines' IT Quality Assurance team and senior management.  • Participate in development of long-term planning for new projects and work on future road maps for integration of current applications with various sub systems.  • Review current technology stack and provide feedback on areas of improvements and implement those changes as needed. Consulted with customers concerning maintenance of software system, and the ability to modify the system.  Environment: C#, ASP.NET, MVC 5, Web API, Entity Framework, MSMQ, JQuery, Bootstrap, HTML 5, Oracle, TFS Senior Software Developer Early Warning Services October 2014 to September 2015 Description:  WFMS is a Case management system. It provides clients,  • The ability to more effectively utilize the output from IDENTITY CHEK Batch Service in a web-based work flow solution as an alternative to reviewing text based reports.  • The ability to manage and make decisions based on the investigation process.  • A mechanism for clients to review summary information regarding warnings and matches with the ability to "drill-down" to obtain more detailed information  Responsibilities:  • Primary role was to close all the security SDR's found by HP Fortify tool.  • SQl injection, weak encryption and data validation issues were fixed in the model layer.  • Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) and Information Disclosure were addressed in view layer.  • Issues like Authentication, Authorization and File access were fixed in the controller layer.  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Impact Analysis and Designing.  • Involved in Development and Customization of different modules of the application.  • Made sure the coding followed secure coding standards.  • Involved in code review by using crucible tool.  • Used SVN version control for code check-in.  Environment: .NET 4.0, C#, SQL Server 2005/2008, Microsoft Visual Studio 2010,MVC, web services, Jquery, SSRS, Oracle. Senior Software Developer Harkins January 2014 to September 2014 Description:  Harkins Theatres is a family owned and operated business, founded and based in Arizona since 1933. With 31 locations in five states, Harkins Theatres is the fifth largest theatre circuit in North America. With more than 80 years of colorful history.  Responsibilities:  • Rewriting the Internal Legacy Applications to .Net Framework 4.0  • Creating new services using WCF.  • Creating C# Code Components, Implementing business rules in the code.  • Involved in requirements gathering for new applications  • Maintain and upgrade the corporate website.  • Converting the all inline SQL to stored procedures  • Migrated data from old POS home office system which was a relational data model to their new home office POS environment which is a dimensional model.  • Created ETL packages with different data sources (SQL Server, Flat Files, Excel source files, XML files etc) and then loaded the data into destination tables by performing different kinds of transformations using SSIS packages  • Wrote complex stored procedures using T-SQL in a SQL Server 2008 environment in order to ensure data conformed to business rules within the environment.  • Created new SSRS reports based on the business requirements.  • Created drill down matrix report to display aggregate summaries for grouped data.  • Created new data set in the existing reports to work with the new source system.  • Created custom report template and implemented it on all the reports to ensure the consistency in the look and feel of reports.  • Worked closely with Business Users and stakeholders to ensure project deliverables align with Harkins standards.  Environment: .NET 4.0, C#, SQL Server 2005/2008, Microsoft Visual Studio 2010,MVC,WCF,Jquery , AJAX, SSIS, SSRS. Senior Software Developer Edgenuity August 2013 to December 2013 Description:  Edgenuity provides online learning programs helped thousands of students to reach their goals. Edgenuity online and blended learning programs are best in class, engaging, efficient, empowering and effective. Edgenuity courses combine rigorous content with direct-instruction videos, multimedia and interactive learning tools and resources to engage and motivates students.  Responsibilities:  • Used MVC 4.0 to develop web application.  • Implemented using Code First with Entity Framework.  • Technical Oversight of integration and development in ASP.NET and JavaScript.  • Developed various integrations using Web Service, Web API, Rest and SOAP.  • Client Side JavaScript with JQuery, KnockOut.js, Require.js.  • JavaScript Unit testing with QUnit  • Implement with SQL Server and Mongo DB with LINQ.  • Present meaningful and do-able concepts to Dev Team, Management and Stakeholders.  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis and coding the webpage mockups.  • Create Technical documentation for Dev Team and Management  Environment