Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Elburn, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Garcia Software Design - Elburn, IL February 2009 to Present Environment: Computer Associates Allfusion II workbench ver3.3, COBOL II, VSAM, MS DB2. SQL  • Developed customized business systems using all aspects of Software development lifecycle, which includes: requirements definition, functional design, coding, Testing, deployment and post-deployment support.  • Project is Inventory Management systems encompassing: Point of Sale, Inventory Management, Sales Order Analysis and Custom Reporting Systems.  • Clients include: Trackside Communication Inc., Elite Autosport Inc., Ogden Feed Ltd, Sierra Tire Inc. and The Vinery Stained Glass. Software Developer US Foods - Elk Grove Village, IL March 2008 to February 2009 March 2008 - February 2009  Environment: COBOL II, CICS, Datacom, DB2, VSAM  • Responsible for providing business solutions to customer systems.  • Analyzed and resolved issues providing computer program/system development, technical support.  • Planned and conducted testing, identified prevention work with customer groups to identify operational and implementation procedures, addressing and resolving production programs. Software Developer Garcia Software Design - Elburn, IL May 2004 to March 2008 Environment: Computer Associates Allfusion II workbench ver3.3, COBOL II, VSAM, MS DB2. SQL   • Developed customized business systems using all aspects of Software development lifecycle, which includes: requirements definition, functional design, coding, Testing, deployment and post-deployment support.   • Project is Inventory Management systems encompassing: Point of Sale, Inventory Management, Sales Order Analysis and Custom Reporting Systems.   • Clients include: Trackside Communication Inc., Elite Autosport Inc., Ogden Feed Ltd, Sierra Tire Inc. and The Vinery Stained Glass. Software Developer ConAgra Foods - Downers Grove, IL October 1999 to May 2004 October 1999 - May 2004  Environment: COBOL II, CICS, TELON, DB2, VSAM  • Responsible for providing business solutions to customer systems.  • Analyzed and resolved issues providing computer program/system development, technical support.  • Planned and conducted testing, identifying prevention work with customer groups to identify operational and implementation procedures, addressing and resolving production programs.  • Provided program/system user acceptance testing, coordinating and monitoring program/system implementation.  • Developed system to integrate military sales into current order entry system. Independent Application Programmer Analyst/Systems Analyst 1976 to July 1999 Worked as an independent Senior Systems Analyst/Application Programmer Analyst.  • Details provided upon request Education Business Computer Programming College of DuPage - Glen Ellyn, IL Additional Information A Senior Systems Analyst / Application Programmer Analyst at numerous major corporations with expertise in all aspects of the software development lifecycle. Proficient in a wide range of technologies, roles, and client environments.    • Expertise in providing business solutions to customer systems in the area of application systems/programming, analyzing current systems and preparing systems flow charts and logic diagrams to describe existing and proposed systems.  • Also proficient in coding, debugging, and documenting programs.  • Providing program/system user acceptance testing, coordinating and monitoring program/system implementation.  • Experience with organizational change management.  • Able to analyze and decompose complex business problems into clear decisions and simple solutions.    Technical Proficiencies    Systems: MVS, MVS XA, OS, IS/JES3, OS/JES3  Languages: COBOL, COBOL II, SQL, SAS, TELON, Paradox, Focus, Easytrieve  Databases: DB2, IMS DB/DC, VSAM, DL/1, RAMIS  Software: CICS, CICS Command Level, CMS  Hardware: IBM 30XX, IBM 43XX, IBM 370, IBM 360, all types of personal computers, Burroughs  Tools/Utilities: EDI, IDCAMS, IBM Utilities, FILEAID, FTP Server, TSO/ISPF, SPUFI, QMF,  Panvalet, Librarian, Novell, RM COBOL