Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - CASO Document Management / ECM Toolbox Pocono Summit, PA Work Experience Senior Software Developer CASO Document Management / ECM Toolbox 2007 to Present Mid-sized contractor working with multiple banks, law firms, health networks, government agencies and municipalities to increase their efficiency by creating workflow processes and solutions that are custom-tailored to the needs of the client.  Responsibilities include:  ECMToolbox Workflow v4 - Lead architect and developer on CASO's flagship software. The project includes a high availability backend which uses programming interfaces to enable easy integrations with custom code. The solution runs as a separate windows service and hosts it's own webpages and RESTful services using webapi2 and OWIN. The Workflow Engine is written in C#, while the user interface is HTML5 using JQuery AJAX calls transporting JSON to the RESTful service. The project uses a combination of bootstrap and company-specific customized CSS (which I designed) to handle the layout. A highly modified Telerik Kendo Grid is used for the displaying and selection of data items. The application uses a combination of T-SQL and Entity Framework 6 as appropriate for performance on the backend.    ECMToolbox EForms Solution - Architect and sole Developer of a GUI configurable EForm builder and viewer. EForms are versioned, and output to multiple sources including customizable exports to 3rd party applications. Output format for EForms are rendered in pdf or image format to match the visual display on the screen. The solution makes use of C# and Webservices, a responsive interface using HTML5, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, and JSON. Backend management and storage is held in SQL using Entity Framework 6.  ECMToolbox ApplicationXtender Permissions Reports - Sole developer of software used to give a full report regarding access rights to ApplicationXtender. Included Active Directory integration along with Bitwise T-SQL operations derived from analysis of the ApplicationXtender permissions tables. The software has had several iterations, the latest is uses C# and ASMX web services, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, and CSS.  Signature Bank - Developed, implemented and supported workflow processes using a .NET C# solution in IIS using a SQL backend. The front end interfaces have evolved throughout the years but range from ASP.NET to more modern HTML5 pages using AJAX calls to web services. Continued to support and enhance triggers, stored procedures, and views created by previous contractors. Created multiple applications with integrations to client's mainframe. Integrated extensively with ApplicationXtender (former EMC Product) which provided access and security to the client's virtual documents.  BankWest Investment Services - Designed and developed workflow to assist client with advanced document routing contained in ImageSilo (A Digitech Solutions Software). The software was responsible for the management of documents as well as updates to the demographic data associated with the documents. Integrations were created to interface with Pershing (A clearing house). Created and index and upload application that adhered to a variety of client specific business rules. Solutions languages were mixed between C# and VB.NET and heavy SQL utilization.  Bank Hapoalim - Created a client-run windows application that limited access for view and print rights to specific files based on server administered permissions. Allowed for implementing overlay on COLD text files. All solutions were created using C#. This particular implementation used a WinForm application interface at the client's request as a modification to the ApplicationXtender client application.  Weltman Weinberg & Reis - Created a workflow process for soliciting check approvals, creating print images and routing to the appropriate check printer across multi-site network. Solution used a combination of C#, Silverlight, and API Integration to Skelta (a 3rd party workflow solution)  Commercial Metals Company - Designed a workflow using Papervision Enterprise to handle accounts payable. Additional software integrations performed in VB.Net to update demographic information.  Reusable .NET libraries - for common integration we worked with. This included an AX.NET library which simplified any projects we worked on related to ApplicationXtender and moved us off their dated COM interface. Also included a PVE.NET library which handled Papervision Enterprise web service calls and returned useable objects instead of XML data. The library was written in C# and utilized the iTextSharp library for image output combining to PDF. Education High school or equivalent in Computer Science Winston School of San Antonio - San Antonio, TX Present Skills .net (10+ years), C# (10+ years), Javascript (7 years), Bootstrap (7 years), Json (7 years), Microsoft .net (10+ years), Scripting (10+ years), Software development (10+ years), Xml (10+ years), Ajax (10+ years), Dns (10+ years), Html5 (7 years), Mvc (4 years), Restful services (7 years), Active directory (10+ years), Cisco (Less than 1 year), Sql (10+ years), Vpn (10+ years), T-sql (10+ years), jquery (7 years), NET, Programming Additional Information Programming Skills Summary  • Web Programmer Familiar with the full software development cycle.  • Microsoft .Net languages - most familiar with C#  • ASMX and RESTful services  • Advanced T-SQL scripting  • Entity Framework v4-6  • Additional: HTML5, Javascript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, XML, Bootstrap, Telerik (.Net and Kendo), MVC, OWIN, Active Directory Management, Various Software APIs    Additional Skills Summary  • Microsoft VPN setup and use  • Cisco VPN use  • Basic DNS and Active Directory Configuration  • Azure and GoDaddy Virtual Environments setup and maintenance  • SQL 2000-2014 Basic Configuration and Administration    About Me  I am a passionate programmer who enjoys producing efficient code, which I present in user-friendly ways. I bring a fresh perspective to projects and specialize in breaking down problems to come up with simple straightforward solutions.