Contract Developer Contract <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Flowtrac Software Dallas, TX Software developer with over 3 years experience delivering client solutions. Effectively collaborate and communicate in both lead and team contributor roles. Development efforts commonly involve working with multiple teams, organizations, and departments to ensure functionality and specifications are met. Routinely work with third party technologies including Git and AWS to ensure projects are delivered on schedule and budget demonstrating all specified criteria was achieved. Work Experience Contract Developer Digital Yalo - Atlanta, GA December 2015 to Present • Lead on and offshore resources to build web and digital solutions for clients working with account, creative, and UX teams optimized for best practices and success.  • Rapid design, development, push to production to meet aggressive client deadlines from 1 week to 8 months.  • Ongoing maintenance and bug fixes for retainer clients to keep site secure and up to date with backlogs.  • Agile, Scrum, and Waterfall trained for project tracking for milestones and deliverables  • Capable of development and configuration in various environments as customer requires  • Managed contact services for design Software Developer Flowtrac Software - Southlake, TX January 2019 to June 2019 • Lead developer on client projects including system administration, software patches, building custom modules, and third party integration.  • Worked on creating git pre-receive hooks to implement syntax parser to ensure code standards and full coverage on existing code before pushing to cloud.  • Modified support email monitor script to check third party integration for user account and create ticket or issue under user account if found, or via Admin account if no user was associated with responding email.  • Supported PostgreSQL databases by creating triggers and functions to verify transactions, created sequences to handle order number generation, and created indexes and modified views to speed up queries. Data Engineer C&W Services - San Francisco, CA April 2016 to February 2018 • Data Engineer at Genentech working on a validated software environment  • Ensure and Improve customer experience by reviewing and updating process flow from initial requests through procurement to payment  • Validate data accuracy using test scripts for processing/correcting errors on internal and contractor developed iOS and PC front end.  • Configure and maintain SAP master data to ensure transaction accuracy  • Data analytics processing 250,000+ transactions  • Automated performance/KPI metrics for better decisions in real time  • Team contributor to a machine learning project using Python analysis on Petasense monitor vibration data Education Mechanical Engineering Ohio University - Athens, OH 2014 Skills Javascript, MYSQL, PHP, Git, Jquery, NodeJS, HTML 5, CSS, Angular, Java, PostgresSQL, AWS, Ajax, Python, Bash Additional Information Skills  Proficient development experience in Javascript, PHP, Python, SQL database administration and bash scripting. Third party library experience with Git, AWS, Apache, Nginx, React, Anglular, JQuery, KendoUI, and more. References available upon request.