Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - OppenheimerFunds, Inc Highlands Ranch, CO Senior Software Developer currently working at a financial company with successful experience as team lead  during leadership transitions. I have helped to set the tempo for new development, maintenance of existing  processes and mentor other developers to ensure the smooth operation of the company's systems. We maintain a  Data Warehouse and other systems, both newer open systems as well as legacy ones. The open systems run on  Linux running Oracle and Postgres databases with Informatica, Java, and Python code. The legacy systems run on  an AS400 with a DB2 database running both Java and other legacy languages.    BUSINESS KNOWLEDGE  • Mutual Fund • Insurance TPA (Third Party  • Restaurant Supply Chain/Trucking Administrator)  • CPA (Certified Public Accountant)  Accounting firm Work Experience Senior Software Developer OppenheimerFunds, Inc - Centennial, CO July 2006 to Present with successful experience as team lead during leadership transitions.  • Completed new development (Python/Postgres ETL consumption of vendor data, literature fulfillment, region  calculator, territory reorg, sales summary refresh) and maintain software (data warehouse, compensation  system, Informatica ETL for vendor sales and consumption data) on our systems to ensure the smooth  operation.  • Frequently meet with business leaders and business analysts to develop requirements and design  documentation, followed by coding unit testing, working with quality assurance (QA) team to test and install.  • Key person for one of our Sales and Marketing systems, keeping it working for critical business processes.  • Work with QA to ensure systems are properly tested.  • Managed daily tasks during integration and acquisition of a privately-owned company to a publicly-owned  company.  • Maintained a home-grown Sales and Marketing software package primarily designed and written using DB2, RPGLE, and Java. The sales module of system later ported to Linux using Oracle, Java and Informatica. This  system consumes sales data from various vendors like Charles Schwab, Morgan Stanley and others for reporting sales compensation for the Sales team.  • Experience with a MDM technology which later replaced some of the functionality in the Sales and Marketing  system above.  • Worked on a large initiative moving a lot of the functionality mentioned above off the legacy and MDM  systems to a cloud based platform which combined most functionality into a solution called SalesPage.  • Currently working on an ETL process, written using Python and Postgres. This process is somewhat of a radical departure from earlier ETL processes which were written in Informatica/Oracle and will be the  blueprint for ETL consumption processes going forward. The Sygma Network - Restaurant Supply Chain - Lakewood, CO July 1994 to July 2006 Lakewood, CO, July 1994 to July 2006.  • Senior Software Developer and project lead responsible for 10 individuals.  • I helped set the tempo for new software development, maintenance of existing processes and mentor other  developers to ensure the smooth operation of the company's systems.  • My duties included maintain software on an IBM AS400, help supervise programming staff and programming  standards compliance. Other duties included meeting with end users gathering requirements to design various  systems, which included, Order Entry, Purchasing, Customer Folio/Catalog, Transportation, Sales Reporting, and Customer Data Exchange system.  • Systems were designed using traditional AS400 tools such as, SQL, SEU, SDA, as well as less traditional tools  like SYNON. Software was written in RPG ILE and CL, database was designed using DDS and SQL.  Programming for the system was modular in design, heavy ILE and SQL in later years.    Tucker Administrator - Third Party Administrator (TPA Insurance Company), Charlotte, NC  • My duties included overseeing the day to day operations of computer systems and maintaining the software.  • The main system was used to process insurance claims. The software was written in RPG II and III and had a DB2 database designed written in SQL and DDS. Programming for the system was, for the most part, modular  in design.    Marion Bass Securities, Charlotte, NC  • Oversaw operations of computer systems, maintained software, implementing software fixes processing and reporting system. The software was written and ran on an IBM System36 using RPG II and OCL.  Programming for the system was, for the most part, modular in design. Education Associates Degree in Computer Programming for Business in Computer Programming for Business Central Piedmont Community College Skills Db2, Informatica, Oracle, Postgres, Git, Groovy, Python, Cognos, Linux, Java, As/400, Rpg, Synon, Allfusion, Ftp, Excel, Training Additional Information TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE  • Informatica • Toad (for Oracle)  • Informatica IDQ • DbVisualizer  • Informatica DVO • Autosys  • Python • Allfusion 2E (aka SYNON)  • Git • RPG  • Bitbucket • CL  • Postgres • Excel  • Oracle • Formal training for both Java and  • DB2 Python  • Java • Formal training for Informatica  • Groovy Power Center  • Linux (command line and bash scripts) • Formal training for SYNON  • MoveIt (FTP tool) • IBM AS/400 Certified Specialist -  • Cognos (Reporting) AS/400 RPG IV Developer  certification