Application Analyst II Application Analyst II Ofallon Motivated self-starter who completes projects on time and within the project scope. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Analyst II Bi-State Development March 2008 to Present Kronos support: WFC, DCM, and WIM.   Main support for Kronos. SQL, Attendance, leave, accruals, WIM, clocks, Upgrades and service packs.   Cyborg programmer/support for Bi-State Development-Metro HR/PAYROLL/BENEFITS.  Create documentation for end users on specific application uses and shortcuts. Developer/Contractor Comrise Technology August 2006 to August 2007 ? Create queries to extract the various tables or certain fields from various tables.  ? Set up new welfare benefits for Open Enrollment by creating new tables (screens) in batch and online, modifying and creating new programs for new open enrollment rules.  ? Troubleshooting current data, creating fixes (batches).  ? Develop processes for testing and implementation. Software Developer/Programmer Ahold USA: Ahold Information Systems - Greenville, SC April 1998 to September 2006 ? Manage information programmatically in various databases.  ? Develop, analyze, test and troubleshoot database programs.  ? Oversee/execute the transfer of extracts to Impromptu (Cognos) and Endevor systems.  ? Collaborate with Oracle team to create new categories and tables  ? Systems Administrator for Impromptu catalogs/tables. Software Developer Cyborg Systems (now Accero Software) - Chicago, IL June 1996 to March 1998 ? Successfully completed extensive onsite training program to develop the CBSV virtual machine and flagship product: Solution Series/ST.  ? Edit and repair code in Solution Series programs. Produced reports and catalogs from data mart, using Cognos and PVCS  ? Coordinate client requests for system resources from international offices.  ? Update programs for standards compliance. Education Bachelor's in Management Information Systems Western Illinois University - Macomb, IL August 1992 to May 1996