Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Marvel Technologies, Michigan Nashville, TN • Around 5years of experience in designing, developing and testing Enterprise Applications using Java/ J2EE platform and object-oriented methodologies  • Experience in working withweb services like SOAP, REST and SDLC approaches for software development.  • Good knowledge in implementing Model-View-Controller (MVC) Architecture for enterprise applications using Spring, Hibernate, JPA and JMS frameworks.  • Good Experience in developing front end applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Proficient in developing Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular 2/4 frameworks.  • Sound knowledge in using AngularJS directives, Controllers, filters, Services, Templates, Events and Injectors.  • Familiar with MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular and Node) stack and MongoDB for initial client demonstrations.  • Familiar in using $http (Angular JS) for consuming RESTful web services.  • Profound experience in creating user validation forms and sending data to server using RESTFULAPIservices.  • Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS frameworkand NodeJS.  • Experience in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Redux and Flux concept.  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Proficient in using jQuery, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications.  • Good experience in developing applications using java web enterprise frameworks like Spring MVC to connect with web container.  • Experienced with Relational databases like MySQL, ORACLE, NoSql Databases like Mongo DB  • Proficient in writing complex SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Expertise in working with build tools like Maven, Gradle  • Involved in working with Java script build tools like GRUNT, GULP, Webpack.  • Worked in deployment and configuration of Application Servers such as IBM WebSphere, ApacheTomcat  • Expertise in working with Agile andWater Fall Methodologies. Work Experience Software Developer Marvel Technologies, Michigan October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing application using Spring Boot Microservice architecture with Front end using Angular5.0  • Designed and Implemented SPA (single page application) using Angular 5Module, Component, Template, Metadata, Data Binding, Directives and Dependency Injection.  • Observable Patterns are used for connecting to external API's and subscribe to receive data with the help of RX/JS libraries.  • Configured various routes, directives for grid, pagination, conditionalvalidations, templating, dynamicloading, lazy loading, Shadow DOM.  • Node Package Manager (NPM) is used for managing dependencies in our Angular 5.0 application  • Used Karma, Jasmine for Angular unit testing and Protractor for automation testing  • Developed RESTful service interface using Spring Boot to the underlying Agent Services API and Implemented RESTful web services.  • Used Spring Boot which removes boilerplate configuration and makes application faster.  • Developed some standalone Micro services using Spring Boot micro service architectural patterns  • Used Express JS which is fast, assertive, essential and moderate web framework of Node JS that helps manage a server and routes.  • Used Express JS which respond to HTTPRequests and dynamically render HTML Pages based on passing arguments to templates.  • Integrated Spring with Hibernate for data access fromMySQL Database.  Environment: Angular 5.0, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Bootstrap, Spring Boot, Spring IOC, RESTful, GIT, Jenkins, MySQL, NoSQL, Casandra, Junit, Jasmine, Protractor, Webpack, Node Js, Express JS. Full Stack Developer Prime Therapeutics, Minneapolis May 2017 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, ReactJS and NodeJS.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Created reusable components using Custom Directives in AngularJS.  • Developed mobile apps using React Native.  • Designed Frontend with object-oriented JavaScript Framework like ReactJS.  • Experienced with Redux architecture using object-oriented concepts to improve performance of the websites.  • Integrated Redux framework with React to handle large chunks of data for the better performance.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and ReactJS.  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using ReactJS framework and JavaScript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front end UI team.  • Performed Unit testing on angular applications using tools like Karma, Jasmine.  • Edited web pages for achieving design goals with CSS3, JavaScript Frameworks and jQuery.  • Designed the login system using jQuery.  • Implemented AJAX, JSON, and JavaScript to create interactive web screens.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, SQL Server, Karma Software Developer TATA Consultancy Services November 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked as a developer in design and development with SOAP, Hibernate and spring for controller part, Oracle as database.  • Used JavaScript, AJAX (jQuery) for UI and Eclipse IDE is used with ANT plugin.  • Used RESTFUL web service calls like POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Developed single page applications using Angularjs.  • Debug complex java errors and used JIRA for tracking system bugs.  • Initiated better Knowledge Management ideas on resolving the common errors  • Adopted Customized Angular filters to provide good search experience.  • Also provided Data management support for JCPenney by administering and managing the SPLUNK Tool  • Detected and handled the fraudulent orders and threats through the Splunk User Behavior Analytics Interface    Environment: Java, JavaScript, SOAP, JDBC, Junit, JMS, Hibernate, Spring, jQuery, Eclipse, Oracle, Angular JS, Restful API, Agile. Java Full Stack Developer Lloyds Bank - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Angular JS 1.0 to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Used Angular Directives like Ng-Model, Ng-App, Ng-repeat etc. to develop views and data binding in our application.  • UsedAngular Routes to navigate through views in our application.  • Used various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features  • Developed Modules for the Front-end applications and integrating them to Back-end using Spring MVC & Hibernate framework.  • UsedSpring MVC frame workto develop enterprise application and it helps to maintain loosely coupling. Spring IOC is used to inject dependencies and manage the life cycle of a bean.    Environment: Angular 1.0, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Protractor, JSON, REST, JAX RS, SOAP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, HQL, Spring IOC, MYSQL, Junit, GIT Education Master's in Computer science State University of New York - New York, NY Bachelor of Technology in Technology Computer Science andEngineeringfrom Amrita School of Engineering Skills HTML5 (3 years), JSON (3 years), AJAX (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), jQuery (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages Core Java, JavaScript  Java EE Technologies Java Beans, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, AngularJS, ECMAScript, Node JS, Angular 5, React JS.  Frameworks Apache Struts, Hibernate, Spring, Java EE Design Patterns  Web/Application Servers WebLogic, IBM websphere, Apache Tomcat.  Databases MySQL, MS SQL Server, MongoDB  IDE Tools Net Beans, Eclipse, MySQL Workbench, SQL Developer, Sublime Text  Agile Tools JIRA, HipChat  Build tools Maven, Gradle