Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - VELIR STUDIO Austin, TX Work Experience Senior Software Developer VELIR STUDIO - Somerville, MA July 2014 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Development (Code implementations in C#, .Net)  • User different tools necessary to implement owned areas of web applications using Content management system in C#, .Net frame work. Produce quality code in all layers of web applications; including business logic and front-end areas. Steer resolution of issues on production through to complete resolution in a timely manner while working with team members and clients directly.  • Leadership:  • Serve as an escalation point for developers and provide technical leadership as needed. Oversee the development team throughout the support lifecycle. Lead and contribute to technical decision making on task resolutions.  • Successful completion of projects involving off shore teams.    • Risk Management:  • Raise risks internally related to account health, including tasks, timelines, budget, technical debt, etc. Provide solutions that mitigate risk and communicate to account team.    • Code Management:  ? Ensure development infrastructure is setup and configured according to established best practices - including areas such as solution structure, source control, continuous integration, and build scripts. Ensure deployment procedures are in line with established best practices and that the procedures are consistently followed.    • Testing:  ? Ensure adequate testing on part of development team before delivering functionality to QA.  • Environments:  ? Understand the roles and architecture of each Internal Environment. Design and recommend development, testing, and production environments which account for technology stack, security, performance, and integration considerations.    • Estimation and Planning:  ? Assist and intervene when needed to keep development tasks on schedule and budget. Participate in the creation and validation of development estimates for use in business development or project planning.  • Process:  ? Ensure that annual reviews are completed across accounts. Identify and implement areas for improvement within accounts through regular account level reviews with team members. Identify and communicate areas for improvement on the overall development and support processes. Software Developer VELIR STUDIO - Somerville, MA January 2011 to July 2014 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Code implementations in C#, .Net  • Deploy new code and functionality to production solutions  • Maintain deployment procedures for existing applications  • Maintain documentation for production systems  • Identify possible risks with proposed solutions or actions  • Use best practices with source control  • Participate in the creation and validation of development estimates  • Lead at least one client solution and participate in development for additional clients Intermediate Software Developer CRAWFORD & COMPANY (CANADA) - Kitchener, ON June 2008 to January 2011 Roles and Responsibilities:    • Consults with and advises users concerning problem areas of data processing applications in operations. E.g.:  ? Conduct research to solve any questions  ? Travel to remote locations to solve any mass system problems  ? Provide any follow-up services required    • Test coordinate and debug upgrades E.g.:  ? Conduct complete testing  ? Maintain records of upgrades    • Develop, write, and maintain programs of a complex nature E.g.:  ? Coding (java script, C#, Asp.NET)  ? Research new software and technology Research Assistant UNIVERSITY OF WESTERN ONTARIO - London, ON April 2007 to September 2008 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Analyze the full set of requirements of the project as set up by professor    • Developed the solution using four prototyping phases with Fortran.    • Maintain constant refer with the professor to ensure the solution met his expectation. Education M.E.SC Computer Engineering UNIVERSITY OF WESTERN ONTARIO - London, ON September 2009 to October 2012 BSc in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF WESTERN ONTARIO - London, ON September 2006 to June 2008