Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - DevOps Middletown, DE • Software Developer with more than eight years of professional development experience with solid knowledge and experience in Java, JavaScript, Python and Microsoft Technologies  • Extensive development in Java, working on software used in mission critical systems, creating distributed version systems and search engines.  • Strong understanding of various database systems and concepts like SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB, and Oracle.  • Solid skills in scripting languages like Python and Ruby, and in JavaScript frameworks like jQuery and YUI along with GWT  • Experienced with Linux development using frameworks like Qt and GTK+  • Self-motivated, good learner in any technologies and environment  • Exceptional skills in debugging and maintenance of software Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer DevOps - Wilmington, DE May 2018 to Present J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., doing business as Chase Bank, is a national bank headquartered in Manhattan, New York City, that constitutes the consumer and commercial banking subsidiary of the U.S. multinational banking and financial services holding company, JPMorgan Chase & Co.  • Worked as a DevOps developer working in the performance management team to automate and create various microservices for the team.  • Help create Jenkins file to create a Jenkins pipeline scripts to automate build and to test systems using groovy language.  • I created JMeter plugins to help with testing various systems.  • I created python scripts to automate various tasks that could be were being performed manually previously.  • I created microservices in Java/Spring and Python consuming REST APIs from third party applications and applications such as Elasticsearch.  • I used Junit/Mockito to add unit tests for Spring and used coverage tools to verify that the tests covered most of the code.  • I had to deploy applications into existing systems and databases using virtual machines and real hardware to test and validate code modifications  • I helped guide interns to create a microservice using Python/Django.  • I wrote code to connect to various messaging systems like Kafka and IBM MQ.  • Integration using Apache Camel and monitoring using Spring metrics, Prometheus and Grafana.    Environment: Python, Django, Jmeter, Groovy, Java, Spring, Git, Intellij, Windows 7, Linux Software Developer Hewlett Packard Enterprise - Fort Collins, CO November 2014 to October 2017 Hewlett-Packard Company or HP is an American multinational information technology corporation. My work involves HP OneView, which is a management software that works across servers, storage, and networking.  • I had to analyze user stories and break them into tasks using Agile methodologies  • I designed and implemented Java applications using Core Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Spring and REST, and using tools like GIT, gerrit and Jenkins  • I worked on the front end user interface (UI) using jQuery, JavaScript, HTML and CSS based on mocks provided by user interaction (UX) team  • I used Junit and Qunit for testing Java and Javascript applications respectively and using coverage tools to verify that the tests covered most of the code.  • I had to deploy applications into existing systems and databases using virtual machines and real hardware to test and validate code modifications  • Worked on HP OneView, which is a management software that works across servers, storage, and networking  • Used internal JavaScript, Piano Framework, to create and modify various Web UI components for HP OneView  • Used Python to web scrape https://mvnrepository.com/ to find licenses used in OneView project, and created an excel file listing those licenses.    Environment: JavaScript, jQuery, Java, Git, Gerrit, Eclipse, Windows 7, Linux, Python Software Developer Voxware Inc - Township of Hamilton, NJ February 2012 to September 2014 Voxware helps organizations with teams who are on the move to more effectively receive, act on, and communicate critical information. By employing hands-free voice solutions, employees safely, accurately, and quickly complete tasks, thereby increasing productivity while reducing costly errors.  • I worked as a Software Developer using various technologies like Java, OSGi, RESTful, Eclipse Framework, JavaScript, and GWT  • Configured Jenkins/Maven to add Jenkins related build information while completing a build.  • Configured Jenkins to start UI testing using Jubula  • Configured Jenkins in an EC2 t-micro instance, configured such that a build results in Jenkins creating other EC2 instances which are closed when build completes. Used Amazon EC2 to create instances in AWS as well as tested other various Amazon Web Services technologies  • Worked on Shark, a modular voice application system, built using Java, JAX-RS, Eclipse Technologies and MongoDB  • Added Solution Versioning to Shark which allows users to get the correct version of a voice solution.  • Worked on Web UI for Shark, using jQuery, Backbone.js and MarionetteJS.  • Tested Shark Application using Jubula  • Worked on VoxConsole, a web reporting and management tool for VMS (Voxware Management Suite); developed both the back and front end of User Management, which allows searching data about current users and their history based on certain criteria. Wrote back-end service using a RESTful web service (Jersey and XML) and the front-end using GWT. Added to User Management, both existing and a pre-existing RESTful service, to ensure it calls on the RESTful service to populate the user management grid and returns XML data.  • Worked on VoxPilot, Widgets that display data in charts or data grid form; by fixing bugs  • I helped port code from Subversion to Git using Bitbucket and also setup up Gerrit for code review  Environment: Java, RESTful, Jenkins/Maven, MongoDB, JAX-RS, jQuery, JavaScript, BackboneJS, MarionetteJS, Jubula, Git (Bitbucket), Gerrit, GWT, Eclipse, Eclipse Framework, Jersey framework, Mac OSX, Windows 7 & 2003, Linux, AWS Software Developer Higher Education Student Assistance Authority - Trenton, NJ February 2011 to February 2012 The Higher Education Student Assistance Authority (HESAA) is the only New Jersey State agency with the sole mission of providing students and families with financial and informational resources for students to pursue their education beyond high school. These include grants, scholarships, loans, loan redemption programs, a college savings plan and comprehensive outreach programs.  • I worked as a Software Developer using Java, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, WebSphere and DB2  • I worked on Online Bill Payment for paying loans, adding bank information, and paying directly through stored or form filled bank information. The back-end was built using Java Servlets using Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern and the front-end was built using JSP and JavaScript  • Added front-end and back-end validation to Online Bill Payment reducing erroneous data from being added to the system.  • Worked on implementing public/private key to import data from FAFSA (Federal student aid)  • Worked on adding features to HESAA's NJCLASS, NJCLASS Graduate/Professional  • All applications built on Windows 2000 running WebSphere and using IBM Rational Application Developer for development using DB2 as the back-end database  Environment: Windows 2000, Java, Servlets and JSP, JavaScript (jQuery/YUI), DB2 Software Developer, Intern Marist College - Poughkeepsie, NY October 2008 to April 2010 Worked at Marist College for On2 Technologies. On2 Technologies is a small publicly-traded company, headquartered in Clifton Park, New York that designs video codec technology. In February, 2010 On2 Technologies was acquired by Google and continues to operate as part of the Google family of products.  • Developed a Moodle and Drupal plug-in for ON2 technologies using Flix engine.  • Developed a Moodle and Drupal plug-in using FlixCloud and Amazon S3 for Storage  • Used jQuery and YUI for front end JavaScript client interaction.  • Tested on Linux (Fedora).  • Work on using the Matroska (.mkv) file format and EBML (Extensible Binary Meta Language) for storing media content.  Environment: Aptana, PHP 4.0, Java Script(jQuery/YUI), My SQL 5.0, C, MS Windows VISTA/Linux(Fedora), Drupal, Moodle and Amazon Web Services Software Developer ebPearls Pvt. Ltd January 2008 to May 2008 ebPearls is a Nepal based Web Development Outsourcing company servicing many high grade web agencies around the world.  • Developed Windows Media Center Add-in using C#, C++, COM, Windows SDK, Windows Media Center SDK, DirectX SDK  • Worked on creating application interface using Media Center Markup Language and C#  • Worked on debugging windows video-conversion service using COM/C++  Environment: Windows Vista, Windows Media Center, MCML, C#, and COM/C++ Software Developer, Team Leader NepaSoft Solutions Pvt. Ltd., Gairidhara - Kathmandu, NP August 2006 to June 2007 NepaSoft Solutions Pvt Ltd is a sister concern of World Distribution Nepal focusing on software developing activities.  • Ported DocBlitz, a Document Management and Work-flow Automation Software from Java/Oracle to NET (C#)/ Oracle web-based application, and using iText for PDF generation.  • Utilized JavaScript and Ajax as front-end client side programming for validation and to improve user experience  • Trained employees at Nabil Bank on using DocBlitz  • Worked as Team Leader in DocBlitz project from March 2007 onwards  • Created Procedures and Packages in Oracle for use with web application  Environment: Windows XP, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, ASP.NET(C#), Java, JavaScript, Linux (Red Hat), and iText (pdf) Web Developer Simrik Solutions Pvt. Ltd., Keshari Galli, Lazimpat - Kathmandu, NP January 2006 to July 2006 Simrik Solutions (P) Ltd provides web-based and software solutions. The company provides web hosting, domain registration, web designing and programming, web promotion and software development services.  • Developed websites using MySQL and PHP  • Created small mapping software, used to field various data in a map using C# and GDI+C#  Environment: Windows XP, C#, JavaScript, PHP, MySQL, SQLYog, and Macromedia Dreamweaver Intern Software Programmer Mercantile Communication Pvt. Ltd., Durbar Marg - Kathmandu, NP August 2004 to June 2005 Worked as an intern at Mercantile Communication while studying at Kathmandu University. Mercantile Communication was established in 1994, and has emerged as the leading bandwidth provider for other Internet Service Providers in Nepal. It has also diversified into providing comprehensive range of excellent value-added services for Internet such as Internet and Intranet applications development, content designing, development and hosting.  • Studied a previous implementation of School Management Software created by using Visual Basic 6.0  • Created a new version of previous software using C#/.NET 1.0  • Added modules to existing software implemented in C# and MS-SQL 2000  Environment: Windows 2000, C#, and MS-SQL 2000    RELATED GRADUATE ACADEMIC PROJECTS  ? Distributed Version Control System: Implemented using Java, RMI, and Apache Derby. Each version control system acts as a separate version control system. Each version control system updates all source code in neighboring systems when updated automatically.  ? Wedding Planning: Implemented using Java and JgraphT. Algorithm for arranging guests on tables such that every guest is seated and is placed at tables where most of his friends or acquaintances are seated.  ? OBJ Viewer: Load Object Files (.obj) and display them using Qt Framework and OpenGL.  ? Search Engine Project: Implemented using Java. Created a custom crawler, an analyzer, an indexer, and query engine for search engine.  ? Decision System: Implemented using Java and Apache Derby and decisions are obtained using Decision Tree and Naive Bayes method.  ? OS Simulation on a browser: Implemented using JavaScript on Firefox. Simulated 6502 processor.  ? Workplicity plug-in: Created a plug-in for Workplicity, used Java Web Start, Prevayler, JXPath and Tomcat.    RELATED UNDERGRADUATE ACADEMIC PROJECTS  ? Shopping Complex Management System: Implemented using Visual Basic and MS-Access. First Prize at Kathmandu University Science and Technology Project Exhibition.  ? Medical Disease Diagnosing System: A project implemented on CLIPS and Java that determines the disease from its symptoms. CLIPS, C Language Integrate Production System, is a LISP like language used for creating Expert System.  ? On-line Shopping System: A dynamic web based application shopping system, implemented in PHP and MySQL.    ONLINE COURSES  ? The Data Scientist's Toolbox (Coursera)  ? R Programming (Coursera)  ? CS-169.1x Software as a Service (using Rails, Cucumber)(edX)  ? Web Development (using Python) (Udacity) Education Master of Science in Software Development in Software Development Marist College - Poughkeepsie, NY May 2010 Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Kathmandu University September 2005 Skills Java, Spring, jquery, Jsp, Rmi, Servlets, Amazon web services, C#, C++, Erlang, Javascript, Jenkins, Php, Prolog, Python, Ruby, Visual basic, Xml, Apache, Linux