IS Solution Architect/Project Manager IS Solution Architect/Project Manager IS Solution Architect/Project Manager - ABB, North America Greensburg, PA To utilize my knowledge and experience gained from my employment with ABB and other organizations to effectively manage all aspects of IS operations in an organization. This would include managing resources, controlling departmental costs, and communicating with upper management my ideas for increasing efficiencies and effectiveness of current processes. Work Experience IS Solution Architect/Project Manager ABB, North America March 2009 to Present • Develop, install, test, debug, maintain and document Web applications using appropriate editors.  • Integrate web content with back end applications.  • Identify, recommend, and prioritize new Web features and applications in conjunction with business leaders and department managers.  • Diagnose and troubleshoot problems with existing Web applications and sites.  • Design, develop, and update databases as they relate to Web applications.  • Conduct research into current and emerging Web technologies and issues in support of Web development efforts.  • Perform cost-benefit analyses of proposed Web implementations.  • Manage multiple resources/project requests, to deliver on deadline and according to the agreed upon budget/cost for projects.  • Work closely with developers, product/project managers, IS, QA, marketing, and graphic designers.  • Manage application projects using professional project management practices.  • End to end development with integrations from ERP solution(ABAP) through web and mobile applications. Sr. Software Developer ABB, North America - Mount Pleasant, PA July 2007 to February 2009 • Created web based scheduling/reporting applications in ASP.NET.  • Created web services to be used with the organization.  • Created multiple automated applications for migration applications and data utilizing remoting, web services, and XML.  • Project management of applications for hardware upgrades, source control migrations, and business solutions.  • Utilized VISIO for development documentation and MS Project for project management solutions.  • Managed backup of application servers.  • Utilized .NET for writing mobile applications for handheld devices and label printers.  • Worked on custom interfaces to feed and retrieve data from SAP and other MRP systems.  • Worked with third party vendors for solving hardware and software issues. Software Developer Pharmacare - Pittsburgh, PA February 2005 to July 2007 • Utilized ASP.NET to develop front-end enterprise data loading intranet application to a Oracle 9i backend database.  • Utilized VB.NET to develop multithreaded applications for processing of backend services and jobs.  • Wrote custom stored procedures within Oracle 9i and SQL 2000/2005 to access data and to manipulate data.  • Worked as project lead in various groups to develop various types of applications.  • As project lead I reviewed code changes before promoting changes to different environments (Development, QA, and Production).  • Worked with Visual FoxPro 7/8 for custom accounting applications.  • Worked with various backend database servers. Such as Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, and Informix. Software Developer Campus Dimensions, Inc - Monroeville, PA January 2004 to January 2005 • Utilized Visual Basic 6.0 to develop client/server front-end applications to a SQL 7.0 backend database using ADO trusted connections.  • Utilized ASP to create custom database reports, which access SQL 7.0 databases.  • Wrote custom stored procedures within SQL 7.0 and SQL 2000 to access data and to manipulate data.  • Worked with other developers to solve day-to-day issues.  • Converted Access 97 reports to ASP reports accessing a SQL database. Software Developer Advantage Equity Services - Pittsburgh, PA April 1999 to December 2003 • Utilized Visual FoxPro 5.0/6.0/7.0 to develop client/server database applications to be used within the company.  • Wrote software installation scripts with InstallShield for Visual FoxPro applications.  • Utilized Visual SourceSafe 5.0/6.0 within a team of developers. To keep source control of different projects and versions of different applications. Including Visual FoxPro, Visual Basic and Web Pages.  • Designed applications in Visual Basic 5.0/6.0/7.0 to work with Windows API, Registry, and develop ActiveX controls.  • Designed and maintained company website using HTML, JavaScript, and ASP with a Visual FoxPro 7.0 Multi Threaded DLL to access company data.  • Designed a web interface to send XML data between a client application to our company website using the Microsoft DOM, which was then parsed into a Visual FoxPro Database.  • Developed various stored procedures to retrieve data from a SQL Database to then populate data into Visual FoxPro Data.  • Designed a scanning program in Visual Basic 6 to scan documents into an image file and then insert data into a Visual FoxPro table using an ODBC driver. Which was then used to access the file across the company network.  • Designed various COM components to be used in multiple applications. So, that an application changes will take affect in multiple systems.  • Managed a small team of developers to work on different aspects of application development cycle. Including testing and developing of multiple applications.  • All applications have been designed to be Object Oriented. So, that a whole application is not needed to be changed.  • Managed a small department to maintain all parts of company network. Including hardware and software.  • Troubleshoot PC hardware and software.  • Upgrading/Maintaining PC hardware/ software.  • Install networking hardware/ software. Including servers, routers, firewalls, hubs, cables, and printers  • Maintained and installed various parts of Phone Systems. Education Associate Skills Abap, Sap, .net, Visual studio, Visual studio .net, HTML, XML, Javascript, Jquery Additional Information Technical Skills:    • Development Languages  Pascal ADA 95 COBOL  PowerBuilder Unix Shell Scripting Linix Shell Scripting  Java JavaScript/jQuery/Angular VB Script  Lotus Notes COM DCOM  SAP(ABAPI) Progress InstallShield  HTML Visual Interdev 1.0/6.0 ASP/ASP.NET/MVC  Visual Basic 5.0/6.0/.NET C/C++/C#.NET XML  AJAX Multithreading Visual Studio .NET 2003/2005/2008  ODBC ADO/ADO.NET ActiveX  OOP Remoting WebServices  Windows Services Visual FoxPro 5.0/6.0/7.0/8.0/9.0 Visual Source Safe  Team Foundation Server DTS SSIS  SSRS PowerBI SAP/ABAP    • Databases  Access Visual FoxPro SQL Server  Oracle DB2 Progress    • Operation Systems  Windows 3.1/95/98/2000/XP/Vista Windows NT/2003/2008 DOS  Novell Linix Unix    • Miscellaneous  MS Word MS Excel MS Project  MS Visio Citrix Photoshop  Syteline Lotus Notes MS Outlook  MS Money SAP