Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Developer - British Petroleum Over 13 years of professional experience in wide range of IT disciplines. Involved in all phases of software development life cycles (SDLC) and Agile Scrum. Projects building from Analysis, Planning, Design, Development, Integration, Configuration, Deployment, developing unit test scripts, user acceptance test, troubleshooting, training, go-live and production support.    Having strong experience in Object oriented programming, automations, and server-side architecture. Experience with data model, business layer, interfaces, services and Dependency  Injection. Having good experience in design and architecture, coding practices and conventions, performance, security, sprint planning and backlog grooming.    Proficient with C#, JavaScript and HTML5. Deep knowledge of C#, ASP.NET, ASP.NET Core, Thorough understanding of the responsibilities of the platform, database, API, caching layer, proxies, and other web services used in the system.    Strong experience in responsive and rich client UI win forms / web forms design and developing applications using C#, Asp.Net, SSRS Reporting, Bower, NPM, Restful APIs,    GitHub, Bootstrap, Bootstrap Themes, Kendo UI, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, MVC, WebAPIs, REST, WCF, Web Services, MSMQ, jQuery, Visual Studio, ADO.NET, LINQ, Entity Framework,    MVC, MVVM, NUnit, Jasmine, Karma, JavaScript, TypeScript, JSON, Grunt, Gulp, MS SQL Server, SSRS, SSIS etc.    Passionate in developing, deploying and hosting modern, maintainable cloud applications using ASP.NET Core, Azure DevOps, AWS CLI. Efficiently implementing AWS service like Cloud Formation, Cloud Trail, RDS, IAM and implementing custom IaaS solutions.  Implemented serverless architecture-based solution using AWS Lambda, SQS and Cloud Watch.    Experienced in developing application involving ASP.Net Core and Azure utilizing Azure services like ARM template, application Insight, Azure AD, App Functions, Azure App Service etc.    Having experience in Continuous Integration (CI), Continuous Delivery (CD), DevOps practices and build control systems like AWS CloudFront.    Highly motivated with deep technology understanding, capable of learning and digesting new technologies rapidly.    Languages:  C#, JavaScript, TypeScript, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, PLSQL, XML/XHTML/XSLT, Python, YAML, PowerShell, Bash Scripting Work Experience Lead Developer British Petroleum - Houston, TX January 2018 to Present US    ? Manages multi cloud (AWS and Azure) based Web application catering to most of the application users and their databases.  ? Worked in DevOps model practicing Agile for the development and support process  ? Involved in IT modernization initiatives leveraging modular and agile development of Web application and release of functionality  ? Coordination/Collaboration across different Technical/Functional/Management groups to avoid redundancy, effective communication and minimize expenditures.  ? Supervise functionality of company's requirements for the application provisioning databases.  ? Serve in an advisory/consultative role for major Cloud Transformation projects, to ensure consistent and pragmatic designs and implementations were in accordance with sanctioned standards and guidelines.  ? Worked with components from AWS cloud and Azure at the same time implementing them in the product.  ? Implemented Service monitoring health check for the product that helps proactively identifying issues in cloud or on-premise systems.  ? Cloud implementation using Hybrid approach for IAM, Storage, RDS. Both AWS and Azure were explored to see the best fit in selective fashion. Service in consideration is EC2, S3, RDS, Lambda, IAM, Hybrid VPC, Azure DB etc.  ? Research and report on new technologies, tools, and solutions, and conducted feasibility studies to demonstrate design techniques.  ? Support the development team in representing the company's level to influence architecture and technology roadmaps that may impact the company.  ? Environment/Tools: ASP.NET Core, C#, SQL Server, LINQ, jQuery, MVC 4.0, Bootstrap, Git, BitBucket for source control, VSTS for CI/CD, CSS3, JSON, WebAPI, Async Programming, AWS services including EC2 - S3 -IAM, Azure services, Load Balancer, draw.io, Gliffy, Confluence, Service Now for ticket management and reporting, JIRA for agile based story and task tracking and planning, Status IO for monitoring etc Development and Support Lead McDermott - Houston, TX April 2014 to December 2017 US    ? Worked as a development and support lead for a leading engineering, procurement, construction and installation ("EPCI") company focused on executing complex offshore oil and gas projects worldwide.  ? Involved in all aspects of business application planning, design and development and maintenance  ? Implemented design patterns and the common components of the application in C#.NET, using various object-oriented features like classes, interfaces, Encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism etc.  ? Designed WCF with Service oriented architecture to support Distributed computing where services were consumed by end users.  ? Worked with different tools to help build optimal solution for the critical applications for the client. BizTalk, SSIS  ? Led team to plan, design, supervise and build applications and software for the client.  ? Coordinated with technical managers, client and other stakeholders to ensure signoffs.  ? Risk identification and mitigation.  ? Migration of existing applications to Cloud  ? Worked as a Bug Manager to track bugs  ? Application design review and correction  ? Explorer new tools and technologies.  ? Involved and Supervised Project Estimation, Code reviews, implement best practices  ? Environment/Tools: ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, LINQ, jQuery, .NET framework 4.0, MS-Visio, Bootstrap, CSS3, JSON, WCF, Log4Net. Lead Developer British Petroleum - Houston, TX May 2013 to March 2014 US    ? Worked as a Lead developer for a leading Oil & Gas company for developing and designing a web application which was used by company traders to obtain information on the counterparties that company was dealing with.  ? Involved in all aspects of business application planning, design and development.  ? Coordination/Collaboration across different functional and technical teams for effective communication of user requirements and design.  ? Design, Analyze, develop enhancements to implemented User Interface using ASP.net, MVC, HTML, XML, CSS, jQuery and AJAX to create responsive web pages.  ? Tactfully managed complex team dynamics, handling organizational change related issues, and fostered an on-going positive environment with a motivated staff and satisfied customer base  ? Extensively Used ADO.NET for CRUD operations Sql server.  ? Led team to plan, design, and implement applications and software.  ? Created, Supervised and Reviewed Technical Design Document by team members.  ? Delivery Environment/Tools: ASP.NET, C#, Oracle, Ajax, JavaScript, MS-Visio, Windows Service, Multi-Threading Senior Developer United Utilities - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2011 to April 2013 India    ? Worked as a senior developer for managing the development and maintenance of the web-based application for a major water utility company.  ? Design and Development activities using .NET and related Technologies  ? Lead team of Developers and supported/guided in development  ? Mentored and guided employees ensuring all were trained in product knowledge and capable of performing assigned duties  ? Designed and Consumed the Restful WCF and Web Services  ? Effective communicator with leaders and team members; briefed team on project and program statuses and results; planned and dispensed reports on work Status of Team members and consolidated timelines of work packets.  ? Technical document creation and Management  ? Delivery Environment/Tools: ASP.NET, C#, JQuery, SQL Server, TFS Software Developer Southern & Scottish Energy - Portsmouth December 2010 to November 2011 Location: Portsmouth, UK    ? The project involved developing application for clients an application which can let them know the usage of electricity over a period.  ? This involved graphs which will be useful for the end users to view their consumptions.  ? Development of WCF services which can be used to cater different applications to do the critical calculations  ? Hosting and configuring of the service over IIS 7  ? Requirement gathering, architecture design, high level design and development of the WCF services Software Developer Service Corporation - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2010 to November 2010 India    ? The project involved developing web application for SCI  ? This assignment involved developing/Fixing and tuning of pieces of code that has been incomplete/had bugs/developed respectively.  ? The responsibility involved includes completing the missing business functionalities, completing technical tasks and fixing issues  ? The WCF service developed was hosted in IIS on windows 2008 server (this was a different machine from the one where the application is hosted) Software Developer Cambridge University - Cambridge January 2009 to May 2010 Location: Cambridge, UK    ? Project involved the development of an online application. This application helped learners across the world to access the benefits of their education through receiving fair and accurate assessment.  ? The system provides the feature to register candidates from various centers across the world. It also enabled the users to store marks for the exams conducted.  ? This project involved enhancing the features of the web applications which needs requirements gathering and impact analysis, design, build, testing, implementation and support.  ? The services developed as a part of this application had service-oriented architecture (SOA). Software Developer Atlanta Gas Light - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2006 to December 2008 India    ? Developed MVC based web application which provided ability for the field personals to record and transmit data from the systems on the field using their mobile devices (PDA)  ? It also had the feature of displaying location of that personal on the field via pushpins on the map using geo-location data.  ? Responsibilities included, documenting requirement from the client, developing class diagrams and sequence diagrams, writing code for the application and performing unit testing of the application.  ? In order to develop this application MVC framework was used along with client-side java scripting. Software Developer GAIL (India) - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2006 to November 2006 India    ? Project involved the development of wireframes for the client based on the requirements gathered. Being involved in discussion related to review and change required for the wireframes  ? Implementing authentication and authorization module for client based on the finalized design  ? Preparing flow charts indicating users finalized functionality. Writing code for the same using ASP.net C#  ? Building reports using SQL Server Reporting Service. Performing Data modeling to provide custom set of data for user to use in the application. Education Associate in Pro Biju Patnayak University Orissa 2005 Skills SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, POSTGRES, Angular Additional Information Skills:  C#, Asp.Net, Win forms, Web forms, MVC 3/4/5, WCF, cURL, ESLint, WebApis, Webservices, SQL Reporting, Entity Framework, SQL Server, Object Oriented Programming, SDLC, Agile and DevOps. Pair Programming. Also proficient with Version Control Systems Trello, TFS, MKS, Git, GitLab, GitBash, Bit-Bucket and Build Control Systems (CI/CD process) like VSTS, Azure DevOps.  Used tools like JIRA, Confluence, Gliffy, Postman, Swagger, Kendo Controls, Service Now  Having experience in usage IDEs like Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio and installing tools like angular-cli, npm, PowerShell 3.0.    Frameworks/APIs:  KendoUI, Bootstrap, jQuery, MVC, MVVM, Asp.net, ASP.net Core, Microsoft Azure and AWS,  Having experience in Angular, JavaScript and typescript unit testing and e2e testing using Karma, Protractor and Jasmine.  Implemented Serverless and SPA with AWS and Angular application.    Databases:  SQL Server, Oracle 10g, Postgres SQL, MySQL, Aurora, AWS RDS and Azure Databases.