UI Developer/Reactjs developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Reactjs <span class="hl">developer</span> UI Developer/Reactjs developer - Walmart Baltimore, MD ? Highly motivated and professional with having 10+ years of IT experience which includes 4+ years of experience in developing modern web applications using React JS and 4 years of experience in UI Design and Development.  ? Expertise in gathering, documenting and analyzing business requirements and worked on many project methodologies like Agile / Scrum.  ? Expertise in working on Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like using HTML4/5, CSS2/3, DHTML, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, JQuery, React JS, Bootstrap Framework, Modernizer JS, Media Queries, AJAX, JSON, and XML.  ? Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA  ? Experienced in using Reacts JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Expertise in React Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  ? Experienced in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  ? Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  ? Experienced working in building an isomorphic application using React.js and Redux with GraphQL on server side.  ? Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites  ? Experienced of responsive web design using Bootstrap framework and CSS3 media queries.  ? Implemented easy to use Bootstrap plugins for building carousel, accordion, modal windows etc.  ? Working experience on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  ? Experienced in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  ? Good Expertise in analyzing the Document Object Model (DOM) Layout, DOM Functions, and Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  ? Strong understanding on MVC, MVVM, OOP, JavaScript.  ? Worked with JavaScript validations and developed Object-Oriented code.  ? Developed Web API using NodeJS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  ? Expertise in RESTful, SOAP web services to integrate between Application to Application  ? Experienced with creating and reviewing UI design specifications, prototype development, and conducting usability tests to ensure quality assurance.  ? Experienced with front-end development with back-end system integration.  ? Created API-driven interactive applications utilizing AJAX technology.  ? Experienced with image editing tools such as Photoshop, Fireworks, and Illustrator.  ? Experienced with various IDE's such as Eclipse, Sublime, Dreamweaver, and Notepad++.  ? Extensively used the repositories like GitHub and SVN.  ? Experienced automatic build process by using Jenkins and Maven.  ? Experienced in unit testing by using Karma and Mocha.  ? Experience in Version Control tools like CVS, GIT, SVN and Clear-Case for Source Code version management.  ? Expertise in working on AWS to integrate the Server code to Client-side code.  ? Excellent skills in programming using wide variety of languages and ability to adapt new latest technologies & work in Multi-platform environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer/Reactjs developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the front end using HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  ? Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin padding, table.  ? Experience In designing UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4 and Adobe Illustrator CS3.  ? Pseudo elements and CSS3 Border, CSS3 Background, CSS3 Transitions.  ? Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3.  ? Extensively used HTML5 for audio and video playback. Worked on the MVP architecture for the GWT.  ? Developed user interface by using the React.js, Redux for Single page application (SPA) development.  ? Involved in responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  ? Involved in using React.js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Experience in Building applications using React.js which allowed us to render pages on both the client and server using the same codebase.  ? Used React.js in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  ? Experience in DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with React States and Events.  ? Have worked with React Js for reusable components  ? Created and developed the internal AngularJS framework applications projects. Unit testing with Jasmine.  ? Developed powerful visualization components and DOM manipulation using React JS  ? Experience working with Redux for maintaining the consistency and for running the application in different environments (client, server, and native) which was also easy to test  ? Client-Side code were written in ReactJS/Redux and Server-Side Code were developed using MVC4  ? Employed Redux to manage application state.  ? Experience working on Redux Uni-directional data-flow achieving the predictable application behavior.  ? Used Node JS, React JS, MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application  ? Watched project changes with Grunt task runner and installed most recent version of libraries with Bower based on running in the Node.js environment.  ? Developed real time video streaming application using Node.js.  ? Drupal Module development, both contributed and non-contributed  ? Implemented a custom Node JS script to act as a PROXY for connecting to the server  ? Developed real time tracking of class schedules using Node.js (socket.io based on socket technology, Express JS framework)  ? Use NODE Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules and used it to install useful tools such as Grunt, Express  ? Responsible for parsing JSON data to & from the server for presentation & storage purposes in the project.  ? Worked on Node.js and NoSQL data stores.  ? Worked on Drupal server administration like deployment, migration  ? Responsible for developing a front-end application using React.js and FLUX architecture for internal team's productivity use  ? Good understanding of Node JS, understood how to configure, create server, manage routes and connect database.  ? Coded to implement AJAX based application by fetching the response from backend REST API as a part of JSON.  ? Worked on Unit test cases and performed unit testing.  ? Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  ? Used web-based GIT repository manager with issue tracking features.  ? Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  ? Worked closely with Quality Analysts to fix bugs during Quality Assurance and User Acceptance Testing.  ? Provided estimates, daily & weekly status report to the client on progress of the tasks.  ? Used Team Foundation Server for source control.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ReactJS, Redux, Node JS, Express JS, JQuery, Handlebars, RWD, Twitter Bootstrap, Eclipse, JSP, Adobe Photoshop, Jira, MS Office, Git, JIRA UI Developer/ Reacts developer Kroger - Cincinnati, OH June 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements.  ? Built rich front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap  ? CSS styles were developed to preserve the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  ? Integrating JavaScript libraries (jquery, React-Bootstrap, Highcharts, Datatables, etc.)  ? Creating React.js / Redux front-end UI, and Node.js applications for backend.  ? Leveraged React.js resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  ? Maintaining Parent and child elements by using State and Props in React.js.  ? React and Functional Driven JavaScript expert in SPAs, UI Components, Mobile web and Performance optimization.  ? Skilled in leading frameworks as React.js to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front-end solution.  ? Tested and applied the branding on a step by step procedure using Jasmine.  ? Created custom filter in React.JS in the application.  ? Used services to read data from remote server using React.JS  ? Used React.js library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  ? Created React.js for reusable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads.  ? Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  ? Implemented React.js Controllers to maintain each view data.  ? Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  ? Architected and Developed for Large Scale JavaScript Application with React.js  ? Used various properties, parameters in ES6.  ? Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable  ? Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  ? Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  ? Developed, implemented and tested Node.js applications.  ? Involving all the stages of Software Development Life Cycle like Application Design, Development, Debugging and testing the applications.  ? Have worked on AWS for fetch the pictures files from AWS to UI  ? Developed and applied application wide, cross platform Validation and Exception Handling policies.  ? Maintain consistency of front-end via code over variety of browsers.  ? Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status.  ? Developing the rich UI components in Optimizely  ? Extensively used Gitfor version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  ? Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  ? Worked with Mocha unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  ? Wrote code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in IE 7, 8, 9 and FF.  ? Interacted with Customers and development teams for Fix the Issues.  ? Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team.    Environment: React.js, Redux, Flex, Node JS, Express JS, JavaScript, HTML5, SAAS, CSS3, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, Core Java, Mocha, MVS, WebDriver, Sublime, Nigthwatch JS GIT, Grunt, Firebug, Agile development, Jira, AWS UI Developer/ Reactjs Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA December 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developed dynamic web pages using HTML/HTML4, CSS2/CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap.  ? Web design and development, application development using Photoshop, HTML, JavaScript.  ? Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, Angular.js and JavaScript and also developer responsive interface using Bootstrap and used SASS for CSS  ? Worked in using React.js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  ? Responsible for React.js UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  ? Developed reusable Modals using React-Modal.  ? Worked with React Component Life cycle in updating the Virtual DOM and also making AJAX calls in components.  ? Involved in building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  ? Wrote client-Side code using React.js and used NPM & gulp directories to generate the server environments.  ? Implemented flux pattern by using React Redux framework.  ? Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout.  ? Created interactive prototypes and specifications, including color palettes, screen layouts and user-interface elements.  ? Used Node.js for heavy DOM manipulation  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Wire-framing, and HTML5.  ? Developed front end web applications by writing HTML code with the help of Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  ? Implemented mock services in Node.JS with the help of modules using Express JS  ? Created web pages using Media Queries that cater to Android and IOS web platforms  ? Created design deliverables, such as specifications, templates, storyboards, wireframes, and mock-ups.  ? Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  ? Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3.  ? Created pages in Site Core and validated the HTML code with W3C Validator.  ? Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML.  ? Responsible for maintaining current websites that include updating web pages, upload new content changes.  ? Involved in the development of pages using Bootstrap framework.  ? Validated inputs to make sure that they will be accepted before submitting to the server.  ? Followed agile methodology.  ? Extensively used jQuery library for visual effects, DOM manipulation and event handling.  ? Designed REST Web service for handling AJAX Request.  ? Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented  ? using Node.js and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.    Environment: HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, MEAN stack, Notepad++, Sublime text, To rtoise SVN, Restful API, HP Quality Center Software Engineer Accenture - Plano, TX March 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Used the functionalities for writing code in HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  ? Responsible for design and development of web pages using HTML, CSS including AJAX controls and XML.  ? Developed UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  ? Designed, developed and updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS, Dreamweaver and JavaScript.  ? Developed the middleware software components for the implementation of the Data Entry GUI for creating and editing medication instances using client-side technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  ? Used Backbone.js to optimize in-browser use and to load the module and to improve the Speed.  ? Extensive experience using Bootstrap for Responsive web Designs.  ? Conducted unit testing on the supported browsers using Jasmine framework and Karma task runner.  ? Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js.  ? Involved in the development of Dynamic loading of web pages using Ajax calls with server pages like PHP and My SQL.  ? Used Ajax Controls, Web forms, JavaScript and HTML for Commission, Payment and Inventory reports.  ? Developed front end web applications by writing HTML code with the help of Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  ? Used Chrome Developer's tool for debugging the website and manipulated the nodes using DOM functions.  ? Used HP Quality Center for bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Created images, logos and icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Photoshop and SVG.  ? Responsible for writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, Views and User- defined Function.  Environment:-HTML,CSS3,JavaScript,JQuery,AJAX,Bootstrap,ResponsiveDesign,XML,Photoshop,Dreamweaver, Firebug ,JSON ,Waterfall, HP Quality Center. Software Engineer White Plains, NY May 2009 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  ? The main purpose of this project was to design web pages that meet User needs and also code functionalities to those web pages that are compatible with all the browsers.  ? Create paper prototypes, initial wire frames and design a strategy by collaborating with the instructional designers.  ? Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens and used DHTML to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  ? Develop web pages with functionalities like login, register, forget password, Email, Filters using Java Script, JQuery and HTML.  ? Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  ? Fetch data using AJAX.  ? Wrote SQL queries to fetch data from the backend.  ? Designed, developed and tested web pages from the level of paper prototypes to production.  ? Test Cross Browser compatibility.  ? Document the entire project, which contains detail description of all the functionalities.    Environment: HTML, DHTML CSS, Java Script, XML, JQuery, AJAX, SQL, Notepad++ Education Bachelor's Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Android studio, C++, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, D3.js, Node.js, Json, Svn, Ajax, Asp, Dreamweaver, Asp.net, Tomcat, Weblogic, Websphere, Eclipse, J2ee, UI Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies HTML4/HTML5,CSS3,SASS,LESS,JavaScript,jQuery,Bootstrap,React.js,Express.js,Node.js,D3.js, Ajax, JSON.  Development tools Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio C++, Notepad++, Android Studio, Sublime, WebStorm, WebMatrix  Debugging tools Chrome Elements Inspector, Firebug, IE Tester  Operating systems Linux, Mac OS X, Windows.  Servers Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, WebSphere, WebLogic.  Version Control SVN, GIT, CVS  Tools Jasmine, Karma, JIRA, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, and Mocha  Database Mongo DB, SQL Server, Oracle, MYSQL, PostgreSQL  Frond End Tools CorelDraw, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Illustrator, Balsamiq  Programming Languages C, Java, ASP.NET, J2EE  Methodologies Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML Water fall