Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Robert Half Technology, Minneapolis Minneapolis, MN Database Development: Extensive experience building queries, T-SQL, stored procedures, database  design/tuning, data conversions, and building import/export routines.    Analysis and Design: Worked directly with subject matter experts to develop applications for  accounting, retirement benefits, broker compensation, retail operations and health care.    Application Tuning and Rewrites: rebuilt and tuned applications that had been performing poorly,  upgrading them into applications that were far more robust and easier to modify.    Experienced in driving all phases of the software development lifecycle. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Robert Half Technology, Minneapolis 2012 to Present Consultant to U.S. Bank, Data Recognition Corporation, Target, Coloplast and others.    - Database Programmer: responsible for creating stored procedures, queries, functions, and database design.  - Developed data upload routines which verified data against business rules, logged operations, and provided summary reports of uploads.  - Project Management: created a system to track software components as they move through development, testing and production. This links software components to business rules and requirements and design decisions.  - Design: worked directly with users and managers to design applications.  - Developed reports and report interfaces for users. Reports Developer Macy's - Minneapolis, MN February 2005 to March 2008 Developed reports and data maintenance applications. Built data parsing and gathering routines. Created reports for Sarbanse-Oxley compliance. Wrote utilities and database applications used by buyers, planners and accounting. Software Developer Application and database development. Software Developer Consultant Datasmith Wrote T-SQL routines and code to convert, verify and load data for accounting system conversion Worked directly with client to build customized Payroll, A/R, A/P & G/L modules. Responsibilities: database design, queries, report development (Using Crystal Reports), interface development, data conversion. Release management Education BA Bemidji State University - Bemidji, MN September 1975 to May 1980 Skills SQL Server, Stored Procedures, Queries, T-SQL (10+ years), DATABASE DESIGN (10+ years), ACCESS (9 years), BATCH PROCESSING (10+ years), COBOL (1 year), VBA (9 years), C Programming language (9 years), Data Conversion/ETL (10+ years), Report Development (10+ years) Additional Information SKILLS    Database development (SQL Server, Sybase, MS Access) SQL, database design, tuning, T-SQL  Programming languages: VBA, VB6, C, COBOL  Systems analysis and design  Release management  Data conversions and ETL  Report development using MS Access and Crystal Reports  UNIX scripting, job scheduling, batch processing  Development Tools: Visio, Excel  Production Support