Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Atlanta, GA Highly-skilled IT professional with extensive experience in project management, software development, system engineering and telephony integration. Utilizes diverse hands-on technical abilities to contribute to and lead development teams to deliver solutions and applications that respond to rapid technology change and business challenges. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer MicroPayments August 2017 to July 2019 August 2017 - July 2019  MicroPayments a Heartand(TM) company, a subsidiary of Global Payments Inc. that provides cashless laundry solutions, amusements systems, and multiple vending services.    Software Engineer  Developed and supported applications using MSSQL.  • Developed application tools in C#, to provide efficient report of usage and management of the laundry units and to enable host inquiry of machine activity from the WaveRider® host and register the amusements host software. Created MSSQL Stored Procedures to facilitate ongoing enhancements and upgrades to accommodate several systems.  • Developed C# multithreaded application to update, pull and validate laundry status from over 35,000 WaveController® machines and send updates to the customer host via TCP. Developed and supported application to provide a key solution on the activity of outbound Internet connectivity, the usage of the database flip, or the activity of the datacenter server. Freelance Software Engineer UpWork October 2016 to July 2017 Job Scope Web Developer Hewlett-Packard June 2014 to August 2016 Enhanced, modified and converted HP GTSM websites (using Classic ASP) from Oracle to MSSQL database. Modified website using JQuery to enhance website look and feel. Converted and enhanced HP CallFlow (BPO) website (ASP.NET) to connect and retrieve data from Oracle to MSSQL. Developed, modified and converted Stored Procedures from Oracle to T-SQL to be used by website. Setup and maintained webservers (IIS 6.0 & 7.0), installations, error modifications, services configurations, etc. Software Engineer Southwest/AirTran Airlines March 2012 to May 2014 Developed, troubleshoot and debug bugs in .NET applications (ASP.NET / C# / VB.NET) (using framework 4.x, 3.x and 2.x) for AirTran's reservation system. Modified the existing web applications, web services with enhancements, supported webservers (IIS 6.0 & 7.0) and Cisco load-balancers. Wrote MSSQL Stored Procedures to facilitate ongoing enhancements and upgrades to accommodate several systems. Write technical documentation and trained offsite team to support AirTran systems. Developer Delta Information Technology August 2000 to January 2012 August 2000 - January 2012  Delta Information Technology is a subsidiary of Delta Airlines that is accountable for ensuring the availability, performance, and operational integrity of the Information Systems and Networks serving the Delta enterprise.    Developer  * Developed Java application to run as Windows Service to get the number of PNRs from Delta's reservation system on each queue that is to be counted (Quick Win Project) and collected every hour and stored in an SQL database (ReBOT). This will allow the business a way to see the number of PNRs on each PNR queue during the day as a means of pay and/or reimbursement based on number of queues worked.  * Developed multi-threaded GUI application in C# to validate data collected from Avaya(TM) Call Management Systems and Operational Analyst. The objective of this application is to provide Delta Air Lines reservation centers, a comprehensive analysis of the interval and Call History data collected from the CMS worldwide. This application must validate and update the Reservation Centers daily before 7:45AM to ensure Delta Air Lines agents are receiving and handling calls as guideline by the Reservation Center. This aggregated and preprocessed data is available in tables and accessed using Brio(TM).  * Developed application tools in C#, to generate Operational Analyst reports based on data from Avaya's CMS SQL database using Crystal Reports(TM) .NET SDK as the reporting tool. I also developed applications in C# and Managed C++ to report via email to the Manager, Business Analyst, Support Personnel and Administrators the validation process and updates of the Electronic Workforce Management and Operational Analyst SQL database based on calls handled by Delta Airlines(TM) Reservation Agents. This aggregated and preprocessed data is available in tables and accessed using Brio(TM).  * Developed several applications in C++ for Delta's Reservations Operation Center; I developed and maintained Delta's Customer Emergency Response Tracking System (CERTS) which is designed to provide support to the Reservations Operations Center (ROC) personnel during and after an incident involving a Delta flight, a Delta Connection flight, or a Code Share operated flight. I used Crystal Report(TM) SDK to develop the application reporting tool connecting to an ODBC server.  * I maintained Delta's web-based GRS (Global Reference System) which was developed in Java using Eclipse SDK. This application is also used to review reports from Change Management System which is an SAP system.  * Use .NET Setup Installer and InstallShield(TM) Admin Studios (versions 9, 10, 11 and 12) to package my developed applications to push via Tivoli(TM) to various Delta employees' workstations. I also mentored Delta Technology employees on assessment, remediation, packaging and developing .NET Setup Installer and InstallShield(TM) scripts on various applications with InstallShield(TM) Admin Studios (versions 5 - 12).  * I handled the daily validation and maintenance of the Aspect database server. Retained customer confidence and respect in the support team by being pro-active in handling the database and Aspect reporting issues. Coordinated with the Aspect technical support and the DBA when problems occur in production. I ran SQL queries on the Avaya Database Server to review data and to verify data anomaly between CMS (Call Management System) and OA (Operational Analyst). I provided technical support for the Aspect and Avaya database server. Education Telecommunications Montgomery College - Germantown, MD BS in Electronic Engineering Technology DeVry Institute of Technology Skills Informix, Ms access, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Javascript, MYSQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mcellery-badio Assessments Data Analysis — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cyrryo9y-vin4ftp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.