Senior Applications Developer Senior Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Applications Developer - Diversant LLC • 9+ years of Software Development experience as a Full-Stack web application developer.  • Extensive knowledge in design and implementation of web applications using ExtJs, REST and SOAP webservices.  • Worked extensively on front-end technologies like extJS, AJAX, JS, XML, XSD, HTML, CSS.  • Good understanding of Agile Methodologies, Design Patterns, OOP concepts and Test Driven Development.  • Experience in writing Data Access Objects (DAO) layer using Hibernate.  • Good expertise in using java Design Patterns such as Factory, Singleton, Adapter and Delegate.  • Experience in working with business analysts and end-users in gathering requirements and translating them to design documents and implementation.  • Experience in handling end-to-end module delivery to the clients and fulfillment of SLAs.  • Good expertise in troubleshooting, finding root-cause and fixing the Critical/Escalated issues.  • Strong DB fundamentals, Data Modeling techniques and good understanding of PL/SQL Procedures in Oracle.  • Experience creating stored procedures, functions, triggers, views.  • Worked extensively on build and deployment tools like ANT, Maven and version control using Git hub, SVN, CVS, Mercurial.  • Experience working with various web/applications servers like Tomcat, Weblogic.  • Quick Learner and adaptable to new technologies and programming environments.  • Good communication skills and a very good team player. Work Experience Senior Applications Developer Diversant LLC July 2017 to Present • Full stack web application developer for Centralized Escalation Reporting System (CERS).  • Worked on new enhancements and defects/jiras using ExtJs 6.2, REST WebServices, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle/PostGres.  • Developed UI forms, panels, grids and other components using extJS, Ajax, Javascript, Html, JSON.  • Written design/approach documents for new features by working closely with Business and End Users.  • Worked on refactoring the code to parallelize the tasks and fine-tuning the SQL Queries to improve the application performance.  • Lead a group of 2 offshore and 3 onshore resources and clear any roadblocks in their tasks.  • Troubleshoot critical/escalated issues, find root-cause and provide the resolution in time.    • Fix any issues arising out of incorrect data and validate that application is operating on clean and correct data.  • Suggest best design patterns based on the existing application code and business rules that were implemented.  • Monitor and address the issues raised by security scan tools Fortify and BlackDuck. Associate Software Engineering JP Morgan Chase & Co October 2013 to July 2017 • Worked on implementing and maintaining various web applications - SRGT/Grading, FRRD, EMD.  • Was part of the team responsible to rewrite the Grading tool using extJS and REST webservices.  • Database design and DB migration from old application to new Grading tool.  • Develop UI and REST services for Admin module to effectively manage Grading Templates.  • Worked on Stored Procedures, Views and DB Packages in Oracle to provide data feed to downstream systems.  • Develop entity classes and DAO layer using Hibernate.  • Implement the Service and Delegate layer code using Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Responsible for running daily scrums and coordinating with business users and product owner.  • Monitor and address the issues raised by code quality tools like SonarQube, BlackDuck, SSAP.  • Responsible for building and deploying applications to QA/UAT environments using Jenkins, uDeploy build management tools.  • Coordinate with Operate Team during PROD release and responsible for smooth end-to-end delivery of application for each sprint. Software Engineer II PROS Inc - Houston, TX October 2011 to October 2013 • Implementation of scalable, multi-tiered suite of enterprise-class O&D (Revenue Management) product.  • Involve in multiple phases of software development, including Development, Testing and Support for QA and Deployment.  • Work extensively on SOAP services that process XML requests using XML parsing.  • Develop Service and DAO layer code following Design Patterns like Factory Pattern, Delegate Pattern, Proxy Pattern, Singleton Pattern.  • Address the performance issues and perform SQL query tuning by analyzing SQL Query Execution Plans.  • Follow Test Driven Development (TDD) and Agile methodology.  • Develop test cases using Junit and Mocking frameworks to comply with code quality and coverage tools.  • Active participation in design/architecture sessions with technical architects, impact analysis and code-review sessions.  • Write scripts for building the application using Maven.  • Participate in code review of peers.  • Responsible for seamless production releases by preparing effective and robust implementation and rollback plans.  • Coordinate with the off-shore team in India. Software Developer Financial Software Solutions December 2009 to October 2011 • Work in ASP .NET environment on the Chapter7 product "Truste Solutions".  • Develop new UI screens and forms as part of enhancements.  • Work extensively on writing XSD schema and XSLT transformations for XML.  • Develop code for client side user validations using JavaScript.  • Work on enriching the UI Html pages using CSS stylesheet.  • Work extensively on Stored Procedures, Functions, Sql queries, Triggers, Views.  • Debugging and performance tuning PL/SQL code.  • Work with Infragistics tools and web development.  • Develop code to retrieve and generate reports using Crystal Reports. Research Assistant Bioinformatics Laboratory at University of Houston September 2007 to September 2009 • Develop set of efficient algorithms in C++ to identify unique Unique mRna Signatures for RNA Silencing for each of the 38,851 human mRNA transcripts.  • Extend these algorithms to identify group-unique signatures that can simultaneously turn off several closely related transcripts.  • Develop Unix shell scripts to run the algorithms on huge datasets as batch jobs.  • Address key issues of time and memory complexities.  • Change the core algorithms within custom libraries to be able to run as parallel jobs. Software Developer Yasu Technologies Pvt Ltd July 2005 to June 2007 • Core UI Design of Applets using Java Swing.  • Implement DAO layer, entity classes and integrate them with Hibernate framework.  • Log4j configuration for the Service layer and Business Delegate layer.  • Develop POC demos using JSP, Servlets, Struts framework.  • Develop the workflow code and rules within the QuickRules product.  • Write XSD schema and validate the XML against it.  • Work on ANT build scripts and Junit testcases for various modules.  • Configure and deploy the application in Tomcat and Websphere.  • Coordinate with the client during the Maintenance Phase. Education Masters of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Houston - Houston, TX August 2007 to December 2009 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2001 to April 2005 Skills Sql server, Oracle, Postgres, Sql, Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C#, C++, Design patterns, Git, Html, Jenkins Additional Information Skills:  Languages Java, C++, C#  Databases Oracle, PostGres, SQL Server, My SQL  Frameworks Hibernate, Spring, Struts  Web Technologies extJS, AJAX, REST Webservices, JSP, Servlets  Scripts/Markup languages jQuery, JS, XML, XSD, HTML, CSS  Methodologies Agile, Design Patterns  Source Code Management Git, Tortoise Svn, Mercurial, CVS  Build Management Jenkins, uDeploy  Application Servers Tomcat, Weblogic  IDEs IntelliJ, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio  Code Quality Analysis JUnit, PMD, FindBugs, Code Coverage  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports XI, Crystal Reports 2008