Principal Software Developer Principal <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Principal Software Developer - DecisionHealth Poolesville, MD Dedicated senior software developer, specializing in Microsoft technologies and web development, with 16 years experience creating complex applications through the full software development lifecycle. Balances technical expertise with strong communication skills. Comfortable developing in environments from CMMI Level 3 to Agile Scrum. Former Top Secret clearance. Work Experience Principal Software Developer DecisionHealth - Gaithersburg, MD August 2013 to Present • Established a new software development process for the whole company based on Agile Scrum and TFS 2010 including bug prioritization rules, development/UAT/staging environments, code review guidelines and a TFS workflow for project work and production issues; Customized TFS ticket templates for new fields and workflow states.  • Managed four developers of various skill levels; Interviewed and hired three of the developers; Performed code reviews; Gave performance reviews and disciplinary meetings; Ran scrum meetings.  • Lead the effort for performance improvements on web app that improved search times by more than 750%.  • Set up TeamCity continuous deployments to multiple test environments for several web apps from Git code repositories.  • Completed analysis, design, development and maintenance of upgrading several WebForms apps to ASP.NET MVC 5, AngularJS 1.x, NPoco and Autofac DI.  • Completed analysis, design, development and maintenance for a suite of 20+ web apps of medical coding content. Apps built on .NET WebForms with SQL Server 2016 back-end databases, including integration with third-party applications, SSIS/SQL jobs for data import/export and an Orchard CMS implementation.  • Maintained several apps to generate medical coding books using Ecrion for PDF generation from XSL-FO templates and data from a SQL Server 2016 database. Lead Software Developer URS Federal Services/Apptis - Bethesda, MD September 2004 to August 2013 • Developed web app for managing the end-to-end security clearance process for State Dept.; App included rendering engine for displaying user surveys and saving data/presentation as single XML object, connected to external web services for credit reports, interfaced with third-party software; Used Agile Scrum, C# 4.0, ASP.NET, MVC 3, TFS, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, Javascript, JQuery, Metastorm, Corticon, BizTalk. Oracle 11g provided the back-end database; Website hosted in IIS.  • Received Circle of Excellence award in April 2009.  • Promoted from Software Developer to Lead Software Developer in October 2007 - Managed a group of three developers; Conducted technical interviews for developer candidates; Gave performance reviews; Mentored junior developers; Gave various presentations on technical subjects to clients and co-workers.  • Completed analysis, design, and development to consolidate several web apps in ASP.NET 3.5 using the MVP design pattern. CMMI Level 3 development standards.  • Completed requirements gathering, analysis, prototyping, design, and development for passport searching web app; App included CRUD operations, several case-tracking systems with workflow management for records and cases, correspondence templates and letter generation, a cashiering/billing system, an event-monitoring and notification system, event-triggered user questionnaires, a report generation system; used ASP.NET, C#, Rational Suite, JavaScript, SSRS 2005, AJAX and T-SQL; SQL Server 2000 provided the back-end databases; website is hosted through IIS  • Completed analysis, design and development for web app to perform image blocking and image blocking correction for passport applications, including correction batch creation and management; used ASP, VBScript, JavaScript and T-SQL stored procedures; SQL Server 2000 provided the back-end database; website was hosted through IIS Education Master's in Software Engineering University of Maryland-University College - College Park, MD May 2019 to Present Bachelor of Sciences in Computer Science University of Maryland University College - College Park, MD September 1999 to December 2001 Bachelor of Arts in English University of Maryland at College Park - College Park, MD January 1995 to December 1998 Skills C# (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), CSS, HTML 5, jQuery, Git (2 years), Asp.Net (10+ years), MVC (7 years), T-Sql (10+ years), PL/SQL (3 years), SASS, Bootstrap, JQuery UI, AngularJS 1.x, Gulp, NPoco, Autofac, Powershell (2 years), Node.JS (2 years), Webpack, 508 Compliance (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), TeamCity (2 years), Drupal (1 year), AWS (1 year), Metastorm, Corticon, Biztalk, Orchard CMS, UML, Web Services (10+ years), Team Foundation Server, TypeScript (1 year) Certifications/Licenses MCSD.NET April 2005 to Present Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) March 2013 to March 2015