Software Solutions Architect <span class="hl">Software</span> Solutions Architect Java Full Sack Developer Boulder, CO I am working at Accumed as a Software Solutions Architect. I have a broad  experience in analyzing, designing, development and delivering software solutions. I  worked many years in various database engines, web-based solutions, complex desktop  solutions and complete enterprise solutions. Over the years, I have used a variety of  programming languages, toolkits, libraries, open sources, technologies, models, and  methodologies. I am looking further to develop my software management and  analyzing skills using modern methodologies. In addition, I like to code challenging  algorithms and modules.    I have been granted permanent residency in the USA at the start of 2017, planning to  relocate in April 2017. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Solutions Architect Accumed April 2011 to Present Present (~ 6 Years)  Accumed provides medical billing services and hospital software solutions,  business & financial Management.    Duties and responsibilities:    • Developing services architectures (SOA).  • Responsible for the development and maintenance of Accumed's business  rules engine.  • Participate in process flow analysis and process redesign.  • Design and develop software applications with due attention to usability and system performance.  • Conduct system analysis and development, with responsible support from team  members, to keep systems current with changing technologies.  • Maintain status report on the progress of the projects and provide management with reports.  • Analyze system specification and translate system requirements to task  applications for junior programmers.  • Responsible for analysis of current programs including performance, diagnosis and troubleshooting of problem programs, and designing solution to programmatic systems designs and programming.  • Responsible for developing new programs and proofing the program to develop needed changes to assure production of a quality product.  • Ensure acceptable delivery of projects through testing and user acceptance  testing and sign offs.  • Search, summarize and keep the team abreast for strategic information from all  sources.  • Provide recommendations to management concerning issues of programmers'  productivity and software development management.  • Holding interviews with candidates and participate in their evaluation.    Senior Software Developer  Projects Manager @ Invest4All    July, 2008 • April, 2011 (~ 3 Years)  Invest4All is technical commercial group, specialized in administrative, workflow  management, archival and financial system.    Duties and responsibilities:    • Create project plans, and provides the executive manager with progress  reports.  • Analyzing, designing and leading the development of DMS (Document  Management System).  • Participate in the development of DMS using J2EE, VC++ MFC, and  JSF2.  • Install, customize and configure the DMS system for customers, including  Oracle DB clustering (RAC & Fail Safe), Windows server clustering and  SAN setup and configuration.  • Prepare developers tasks after the design phase and provide due dates.  • Holding interviews with job candidates and evaluate them.  • Leading the process of restructuring & re-organizing the center work.    Senior Software Engineer @ ATSC A lead Advanced Turnkey Systems Corporation December 2006 to July 2008 is a software development  company. ATSC provides custom written systems and off the shelf software  solutions.    Duties and responsibilities:    • A lead in the development of a new version of the company financial  system, especially in analyzing, documenting and diagramming the new  system.  • Leading the process of developing a web application using Java, JSP,  Oracle and MSSQL.  • Analyze, Design and Develop a customer satisfaction surveyor system to be part of a Customer relationship management system.  • Design and Develop an IVR (Interactive Voice Response) that produces a  customizable and configurable functionality to be used in any application or business schema.    Senior Software Engineer @ Souccar for Electronic Industries Senior Software Developer Souccar for Electronic Industries LLC March 2006 to November 2006 SEI) is an Engineering, Procurement, and  Construction (EPC) Company, involved in the field of electronics, electrical  power, and the information industry.    Duties and responsibilities:    • Analyze and design FMCG (Fast Moving Consumer Goods) Automation  System, using UML diagrams.  • Participating in Fact-Finding (business analysis) and system analysis of a  complete ERP system.  • Studding and improving current SDLC ( Software Development lifecycle) in the company, especially Fact-Finding and analysis stages.    Senior Software Engineer @ Computhink Senior Software Developer Chicago Illinois - Chicago, IL February 1998 to November 2005 USA.  Computhink changed its name to Contentverse at 2011.    Duties and responsibilities:    • Participate in development of web based interface for a DMS system  developed by the company.  • Development of Document lifecycle designer application in Java  including its middle tier and DB scripts.  • Development of Workflow map designer application in Java including its  middle tier and DB script.  • Participating in development Server Application.  • Migrating Microsoft SQL Server Database to Oracle (including more than  250 SP).  • Participating in development of Visual C++ - MFC application (the client of the previous mentioned Java server.  • DLLs, to enable our system to integrate its security with Novell server,  NT4 domain and Windows 2000 domain server (using windows API and  ADSI -Active Directory Services Interface-). Development of rapper  DLLs for OCR, Scanning (ISIS/TWAIN), Image Processing using Lead  Tools.  • Development of ActiveX controls using Visual C++.    Senior Software Developer  • Supervising development of new version of the previous Visual C++  Client.  • Managing the test department for about 1 year.  • Development of personnel ID cards production application that consists of the following modules and functions visual card designer (includes  guilloche, micro printing, and other advanced security features), visual  entry from designer, security, archive, reports, scan, electronic signature  capture, Video capture using DirectShow, 2D Barcode, 1D Barcode and audit trial.  • Development of an application that works as limited viewer and editor for offline documents exported and checked out from our DMS system, using  ATL (Active Template Library).  • Design and Develop Print Drivers (Windows NT, Windows95)    Programmer @ SyriaSoft Senior Software Developer Accumed.ae - Damascus, SY March 1995 to December 1996 March, 1995• December, 1996 (~ 2 Years)  • Developing a DLL for converting currency values from numeric to alphabetic (Arabic Language).  • Developing a guest service management & monitoring for hotels  (Sheraton-Damascus).  • Developing a DLL (wrapper) for encapsulating the Borland Database  Engine (BDE) Functionality and reproducing this functionality in an object oriented manner.  • Participating in developing Inventory-Accounting System (off the shelf  product). Education Bachelor in Information Technology Syrian Virtual University 2014 to 2017 Institute for Computer Engineering 1993 to 1995 Skills DATABASE (9 years), ORACLE (9 years), JAVA (9 years), C++ (7 years), MFC (7 years), Java J2Ee, Hibernate, J2Ee, Javascript, MVC, JEE, JSP Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/sameermutlak Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: Java, C#, VC++, C, VB6    Database: MSSQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL.  ANSI SQL, TSQL, PL-SQL.    Framework: Java SE, Java EE, .NET, MFC, OWL.    Methodologies: Waterfall, incremental. Spiral models, Agile    Diagrams: Flowcharts, DFD (Data flow), most of UML.    Web Technologies: RESTful & SOAP Web Services, JSF2, JSP, ASP.NET,  HTML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, PrimeFaces.    Other Technologies: XML, XSD, DTD, Lead Tools, JBoss Drools, TAPI,  DCOM, COM+, Active Directory, Pixtran, Scan Soft  SDK, Recognita SDK (OCR), Metastorm E-Work SDK.    SAMEER MUTLAK  Senior Software Developer