.Net Software Developer [C# / ASP.NET Developer] .Net <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> [C# / ASP.NET <span class="hl">Developer</span>] Windows / Web Application Developer[.NET / C# / ASP.NET / Backend / Fulfillment] Glendale, CA Thank you for considering my resume for your position.    [QUALIFICATON SUMMARY]  • Having 10 years of experience in IT industry, Involved in Complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing, Integration, Deployment, Documentation, and Maintenance of Windows /Web applications.  • Strong at the implementation of eCommerce business systems, Groupware, knowledge suggestion system development of projects and applications including cross functional collaboration and system analysis.  • Well experienced in database design and development mainly for MS SQL Server.  • Wrote T-SQL, DDL & DML queries, stored procedures, user defined functions, Trigger and views in SQL Server.  • Extensively used re-usable component such as Web Controls, User Controls, Custom controls and AJAX controls.   • Proven ability to resolve complex problems, quickly diagnosing and identifying issues and determining the proper resolutions.  • Increased company value through system analysis of overall IT processing and creative thinking.  • The motivation in teamwork Ensures the overall success of e-commerce in Large-scale programs focusing on customer relationships funding of project and delivery resources and general health of the project.  • To obtain a position as a Senior Developer specializing in development and architecture, where I can leverage my experience and knowledge to further enhance my skill set.  • I'm always learning about new technologies and I feel motivated in participate in new projects and I feel motivated in be led by new leaders and feel that seems to sound very well work on a large technology company or a large project. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience .Net Software Developer [C# / ASP.NET Developer] FOREVER 21 - Los Angeles, CA January 2011 to November 2017 [Roles and Responsibilities]  • Part of the back end development team of eCommerce.  • Senior Application Developer for a very large and Complex warehouse fulfillment application responsible for Backend systems.  • Develop for e-commerce Backend that requires comprehensive and thorough knowledge of Microsoft Commerce Server and eCommerce platform.  • Developed & maintained a reusable components repository.  • Process all fulfillment customer orders data from beginning to end.  • Third Party APIs Implementations, communication and management for fulfillment process:  - Shipping APIs : UPS, USPS, FedEx, DHL, OnTrac  - Payment APIs : PayPal, Payflow, Cybersource, Ogone, WorldPay, Chase  • Developed Auto e-giftcard approving Service.  • Implement Store to Store Replenishment process.  • Integrated Warehouse fulfillment system and Cofe[Vargo] automation system.  • Ensure compliance with application management strategy, architectures, standards and processes. This includes the utilization of best practices in project management,  change management, design and development.  • Process outgoing package via shipping company Perform data entry activities for customer orders, check postal rates and weigh outgoing package, generate shipping labels, complete shipping forms, replenish supply of post office forms, count and record inventory items, ensure delivery of outgoing package to Courier or in house.  • Assists in the creation of unit, integration, function, and performance test scripts to improve application quality and ensure fulfillment of requirements  • Identify the bugs in the applications and Debug it accordingly.  • Create reports using reporting tools such as Crystal Report.  • Developed WCF Service to communicate with different modules of advent.  • Constantly evaluate systems, processes and procedures for inefficiencies, site performance, monitoring and make recommendations for improvement.  • Responsible for the daily operations the warehouse fulfillment system of the E-Commerce platform.(US, CA, EU, UK)  • Responsible for leading production deployment of each release. Pull together the cross-functional tasks required to deploy, test and sign-off on all releases.  • Used Toad to checkout and check in code once changes are made to section (s) of code of the application on regularly.  • Create Web Services and consume Web Services from Main frame in the applications.  • Optimize backend systems by analyzing and measuring site capacity using Transaction Cost Analysis and by optimizing SQL Server queries.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and query optimization for improving performance.  • Expertise in handling predefined exceptions and writing custom exceptions.  • Perform a wide range of eCommerce warehouse functions including: product listing, order fulfillment, moving stored product to various staging locations for fulfillment, and more.  • Test applications and develop enhancements that enable a positive end-user experience  • Work within specifications provided to meet programming assignment goals and objectives in a timely and accurate manner.  • Take independent action to correct problems encountered during systems operations within assigned scope of responsibility.  • Unit testing with development of each module using MS Unit Test Project. Sr. Software Engineer DIT - Seoul, South Korea March 2008 to June 2010 [Roles and Responsibilities]  • Developed a knowledge management System.(KMS solutions)  • Ensured the solution meets both scalability and extendibility requirements.  • Demonstrated ability and high degree of creativity to resolve and provide efficient solutions.  • Designed and implemented the Web Pages of project using ASP.NET & C#.  • Developed the classes using C#, which incorporated 3-tier architecture.  • Designed N-Tier system having Business Logic Layer (Web Services), Presentation Layer (ASP.NET / C#) and Database Layer (Database Connection and Security  • Implement web based technologies like AJAX, jQuery and JavaScript for the better UI designs.  • Used AJAX for partial rendering of the Web Forms to improve performance by not having the whole page post back.  • Used ADO.NET to access data from database servers to implement data access layer.  • Created database documentations and database tables in MS SQL Server.  • Wrote T-SQL, DDL & DML queries, stored procedures, user defined functions, and views in SQL Server.  • Used Dynamic SQL and store procedure to fetch data more efficiently.  • Database Migration from Microsoft Access to SQL Server 2005.  • Optimizing existing T-SQL code on slow running Stored Procedures as part of the Performance improvement process.  • Created the Data Dictionary for the critical applications.  • Tested, maintained, documented and deployed the application. Jr. Software Engineer INTERDEV - Seoul, South Korea December 2005 to December 2007 • Involve in the software development phases of SDLC ( Software Development Life Cycle)  • Worked with the Business analysts, Program Managers and Team leads for requirements gathering, Database design,User interface, application Layer and business logic implementation.  • Analyzed business, functional, and technical requirements to make sure project met expectations.  • Participated in requirement gathering and conduct analysis activities.  • Involved in development of classes using C#.NET that incorporates both N-Tier architecture and database connectivity.  • Involved in developing and consuming Web Services and n-tier web applications usingVB.NET, ASP.NET, C# and ADO.NET.  • Development of the interactive UI's for the front-end users using the front-end technologies such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed the UI, layout HTML for web application that matches requirements of the client.  • Used ADO.NET to retrieve data from MS SQL Server 2005.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Implemented unit testing using debugging throughout all phases of application development.  • Actively involved in troubleshooting to ensure the project completion on time. Software Developer BRAIN CONSULTING - Seoul, South Korea December 2003 to October 2005 • Developed the Portal web application using C#.NET and used web forms to develop the functionality of the UI using Visual Studio 2000.  • GUI Development using ASP.NET, HTML, AJAX, XML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed front end pages using ASP, JavaScript, CSS, and HTML  • Troubleshot and resolved bugs in .NET Web applications to ensure optimal development environment.  • Client-side validation using JavaScript.  • T-SQL programming for writing DDL & DML queries, stored procedures, user defined functions in SQL Server 2000.  • Intranet Application development using ASP.Net and HTML Reports for custom requirements. Education Bachelor's in Computer science and engineering Halla University - Korea, VA February 1999 to February 2002 Skills .NET (10+ years), MS-SQL (10+ years), ASP.NET (7 years), VB.NET (2 years), ASP (2 years), C#, WCF, MVC Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: South Korea Rank: Maturity Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional Present SiteCore E-Commerce Certification National Technical Qualification Certificate Computer Graphics Operation [PADI] Scuba Diving Instructor Certification Additional Information [Technical Skills]  Programming Languages: .NET, C#, ASP.NET, VB.NET, VB 6.0, ASP, T-SQL, PL/SQL  Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, CSS, ASP, XML, XSD, XSLT, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, VBScript, SiteCore  IDE Tools: Visual Studio 2012/2010/2008/2005, SQL Server Management Studio, Toad  Reporting Tools: SQL Server Reporting Services, Crystal Reports  Data Bases: MS SQL SERVER 2012/2008/2005/2000, Oracle 9i/8i, MySQL  Version Control Tools: SVN, Team Foundation Server, Visual Source Safe  Middleware: WCF, ADO.NET, Web Services, Enterprise Library  Servers: Windows Server 2008/2003/NT, Microsoft IIS 