Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - ELFEC S.A. Company Burke, VA Work Experience Senior Software Engineer ELFEC S.A. Company October 2003 to Present responsible for the distribution of electricity in the city of Cochabamba -  Bolivia (http://www.elfec.com/)    Position: Senior Software Engineer.  Time: Cochabamba October 2003 to date.    Functions and responsibilities:    • Problem resolution,  • Requirements analysis,  • Advise in the elaboration of computer requirements to the users,  • Application design and development,  • Implementation, maintenance and support of Financial Systems (ERP, accounting,  budgets, taxes, warehouses, fixed assets, treasury, cash, banks, human resources) and Commercial Systems (Customers, procedures, billing, collection, delinquency  control, control of quality).  • Creation of desktop, web, mobile and web services applications.  • Integration of purchased systems and home development.  • Migration and adaptation of information.  • Support in the development of thematic maps between the technical system and the commercial system.  • Carry out quality control of the developed systems  • Prepare technical documentation  • Propose new projects, promote them and manage them  • Participate in the development of new computer projects    Systems developed and deployment:    Participation in the entire life cycle of the following systems:    • ERP financial management system (in development)  • Commercial management system  • Buildings  • Budgets  • Collection  • Creation of web services for banks web platform  • Cuts and reconnections of users in arrears (desktop and mobile version)  • Medical records for ELFEC health insurance  • Breathalyzer control system  • Technical management system    Company:  FPS (Fund for Productive and Social Investment). Fund whose main objective is to manage the resources provided by international cooperation agencies and the General Treasury of the  Nation for the co-financing of investment costs of feasible projects that contribute to the socioeconomic development of the municipalities, which responding to the demand of civil  society, are consistent with national development policies and strategies.  (https://www.fps.gob.bo/) System Manager Cochabamba October 2001 to January 2003 Functions and responsibilities:    • Analysis of the systems.  • Hardware and Software Advice.  • Administration and maintenance Omega system (developed in Informix).  • Administration and maintenance of the SAP system (Oracle Database and application developed in Power Builder).  • Administration and maintenance of the Unique Data system (SQL Server Database,  application developed in Visual Basic).  • Support to the SIGMA system (National Accounting System for Public Entities)  • User training.  • Configuration of database servers, email, web operating system (Unix, Linux,  Windows 2000).    Systems developed and deployment:    • Development and implementation of control system for the payment of counterparts by the City Halls.  • Development and implementation of Warranty Checks system.  • Development and implementation of Photographic Library.  • Development and implementation of the Documentation Administration System.  • Development and implementation of a Reporting System for Project Monitoring.    Company:  AGROCAPITAL. Fondo It is a non-profit foundation that was originally promoted by the  Bolivian government to meet the financing needs of the rural sector. Software Developer Cochabamba January 2000 to October 2001 Functions and responsibilities:    • Analysis of the systems.  • Development, implementation of systems  • Generation of technical documentation and manuals for users.  • User training.  • User support    Systems developed and deployment:    • Development, implementation of Warehouse System.  • Module Development of Savings Bank.  • Development of technical documentation and manuals for users  • Education MBA UPB Private University of Bolivia February 2007 to November 2008 Master's in Software Engineering UMSS Universidad Mayor de San Simón January 2000 to December 2002 Bachelor of Computer Science in Cochabamba Universidad Mayor de San Simón February 1988 to June 1994 Skills ACCOUNTING (10+ years), MARKETING (5 years), ORACLE (10+ years), .NET (3 years), SALES (8 years) Additional Information SKILLS AND KNOWLEDGE    • Oracle (10 or more years),  • PostgresSQL (3 years),  • .NET (2 years),  • Javascript (2 years),  • PHP (2 years),  • Coldfusion (5 years),  • Clarion (7 years),  • Visual Fox Pro (4 years) years),  • Magic (3 years),  • Filemaker Pro (10 or more years),  • Scriptcase (3 years),  • Clipper (2 years),  • Scrum (2 years),  • Support and relationship with clients (more than 10 years),  • Java.    Other skills and knowledge:    • Leadership,  • Accounting,  • Finance,  • Taxes,  • Marketing  • Management and sales.  • Project management