Vice President Vice President Vice President - Goldman Sachs Livingston, NJ • 15+ years of Java application development experience and database programming skills.  • Extensive hands-on experience on J2EE applications using Spring framework, JDBC and messaging.  • Extensive knowledge about all phases of SDLC and Continuous Integration and release cycles.  • Expertise in building applications for regulatory filings and portfolio performance and risk calculators for institutional clients and mutual funds.  • Extensive experience in leading design and development of projects. Work Experience Vice President Goldman Sachs July 2011 to Present ? Senior member of Regulatory Controllers IT since March 2017, responsible for end to end development of regulatory applications. Regulatory controllers are responsible for regulatory filings across multiple jurisdictions and at different filing frequencies.  ? Senior member of Performance Controllers IT from July 2011 till March 2017. Performance systems calculate different performance and risk numbers and help controllers with their daily and monthly workflows.  ? Worked closely with users to understand and prioritize requirements and formulate technical solutions.  ? Key contributor to architecture and design discussions, code reviews and to continuous improvement of development processes.  ? Technical Risk champion for Controllers IT. Helped several teams achieve firmwide tech risk mandates.  ? Designed and developed a rules-based data management system using Java, Spring, Drools and MongoDB, which consumes data from several upstream trade capture and reference data systems. Data is consumed using Kafka or REST APIs from upstream systems.  ? Designed and developed Java/Spring based REST APIs that follows the microservices architectural style.  ? Designed and developed a rich user interface using REACT/ANGULARJS that provides users ability to review and enrich the data to ensure data accuracy and consistency.  ? Led the Design and Development of a configurable and scalable Performance calculator framework using Java, Spring, Sybase. This framework is used to calculate daily, monthly and longer time period performance and risk per accounts, mutual funds, hedge funds for Equities, Fixed Income and Quantitative strategies business.  ? Developed Risk calculator which is another implementation of same framework to calculate risk ranking and volatility for European funds as mandated by Regulatory reporting.  ? Developed rules needed for BEA and FormPF filings using Scala and Java based technologies.  ? Developed automated test plans and procedures using JUNIT, Mockito, FITNESSE for backend and Selenium and Karma testing for front-end.  ? Responsible for defining requirements for upstream systems as well as working with AXIOM vendor.  Technologies used: Java, REACT, AngularJS, Spring Core, Spring Boot, JBPM, REST APIs, Hibernate, Sybase ASE, Drools, Struts, Tomcat, Scala, Kafka, JUNIT, Mockito, JSON, MongoDB, Autosys for job scheduling, Gradle, Jenkins. Software Developer HedgeServ April 2010 to June 2011 HedgeServ provides suite of front office applications to various hedge funds.  ? Developed a rich front end built using Flex that enables users to book transactions (subscriptions, redemptions, short sells, buy to covers and exchanges) and enter price for a financial instrument.  ? Designed and developed Attribution, Fund of Hedge Funds, Manager Typical Performance, Private equity Investment Overview reports using Java, JXLS, Hibernate, Flex 3.0 and Spring.  ? Involved in test driven development style development process.  ? Wrote automated unit tests using JUNIT and Mockito.  Technologies used: Java, Spring, Adobe Flex 3.0, Hibernate, SQL Server, Junit, Mockito, JXLS, JMS, SVN. Module Lead Mastek Limited December 2005 to February 2010 Mastek is an IT consultancy firm that provides its clients technology solutions & services.  ? Designed and developed various financial planning and guidance tools such as Savings Planner, FGGI and FPRA Variable Annuities, Roth Converter Illustrator for the client Fidelity Investments.  ? Led development of planning tools like Savings Planner and Roth Converter Illustrator.  ? Responsible for gathering business requirements by interacting with the client.  ? Involved in planning and resource allocation for the offshore team.  ? Prepared technical specification documents detailing each module using class and use case diagrams using UML and Rational Rose.  ? Developed web-based screens using Spring MVC.  Technologies used: Java, Spring MVC, SQL, FLEX and Oracle. Senior Software Developer L&T InfoTech August 2003 to December 2005 L&T Infotech is an IT consultancy firm that provides its clients technology solutions & services.  ? Designed and developed Eurogiro Local System which connects Post and Bank Institutions to send/receive data between two ELS systems.  ? Responsible for gathering business requirements, analyzing them, design and development of n-tiered web applications.  Technologies used: Java, SQL, Jakarta Struts framework, XML technologies like Commons Digester Framework, Embedded Derby database, Tomcat 5.0.28, Jasper Reports, Jakarta Utilities like commons-lang, commons-dbcp. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology Mumbai University June 2003 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jaxp, Jms, Jsp, Struts, Jakarta, Jakarta struts, Wsad, Rest Api, Dtd, Gradle, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Java, SQL AND Stored procedures, Scala, XML, HTML, JSP, Javascript, UML, JSON  Frameworks J2EE, Angular JS, React, Rest API, Spring Core, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Junit, Mockito, Fitnesse, Selenium, Karma, Adobe Flex 3.0, Hibernate, Jakarta Struts, JXLS, XStream, JXLS  App/Web Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Websphere 6.1  Build/CI CD: Gradle, Jenkins, GNS, Maven  Databases Sybase ASE, Sybase IQ, Oracle 9i, MS Access and Derby (Embedded database), SQL Server  Source control SVN, CVS, Rational Clear Case  Messaging JMS, Kafka, MQ Series, Sonic  XML technologies JAXB, JAXP, DTD, XML Schemas, Commons digester framework, Castor, XSLT, XPATH  Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, RAD, WSAD, Rational Rose, Aqua Data Studio, Visio, Toad, ERWin, Microsoft Project, Jakarta Ant, Fortify, PMD, Checkstyle, Jenkins, SonarQube, Adobe Flex Builder