Administrator Administrator Purchasing and store coordination - H Mart NW Headquarter University Place, WA 09/2015 - Now H Mart NW Headquarter in Auburn, USA  Position: Administrative Manager    Total development period: 12 years and 2 months  07/2013 - 07/2014 ALLION INC. in Bucheon, Korea  Position: Senior Developer  02/2013 - 06/2013 VISUAL SOFT LAND INC. in Seoul, Korea  Position: Section Chief  05/2005 - 01/2013 INOVTECH INC. in Seoul, Korea  Position: Section Chief  03/2002 - 05/2005 CXP INC. in Seoul, Korea  Position: Deputy Section Chief Work Experience Administrator H Mart NW Headquarter - Auburn, WA September 2015 to Present in Auburn, Washington  ? Purchase supplies, materials, and equipment for H Mart. Draw up a list of a term, condition, description and price for record keeping using Excel. File purchase quotes, purchase invoices, and Safety Data Sheet (SDS). Request to change information when it is incorrect. Request to submit a Certificate of Insurance (COI) to vendors or tenants.  ? Trained employees such as store coordinator, label team, and cashier when the company regulation is changed or Revised Code of Washington (RCW) is changed regarding a tax, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), and liability. Inspect the store whether they keep a regulation or not according the distributed guide.  ? Scheduled and coordinated meetings, appointments, and travel arrangements for supervisors and managers.  ? Developed Excel Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) user form for searching eligible employee and drawing up a list so that H Mart offers employee who have been working over 90 days and works at least 30 hours a week with health insurance which saved 8 hours in a week. Collect problems of Point of Sales (POS) system and resolve it with a provider. Senior Software Developer ALLION INC July 2013 to July 2014 in Bucheon, Korea  ? Developed black box, equivalent to a car dash camera using C under the embedded Linux environment and used Subversion (SVN) to manage a source code. It is equipped with 3G modem to send its owner text message or pictures when it sensed shock using a vibration sensor. Used AT command to send a low-level SMS.  ? Designed the protocol which works among server, black box, and smart phone.  ? Black box displayed in many exhibitions with SK Telecom. Following link is one that was recorded in exhibition: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3JbQRGct1tY Senior Software Developer Visual Soft Land INC - Seoul, KR February 2013 to June 2013 Korea  ? Developed Customer Information Analysis Solution which displays visitor's information of gender and age on the screen using a camera in programming languages as following: VC++, MFC, ActiveX Data Object (ADO), Direct-X, and Open CV.  ? Collected a face information using NEC Face Recognition Module and collected a traffic information use S1 Traffic Module.  MSSQL was used when the collected data saved into system. Direct-X was used to get more high performance when the camera image showed on the screen after processing. Software Developer Inovtech INC - Seoul, KR May 2005 to January 2013 in Seoul, Korea  ? Developed copy machine software of Fuji Xerox using C. Designed the protocol among all modules (tray, exit, duplex, finisher) which are using UART serial communication. Speed and timing control of stepping motor and DC motor according to status of actuator and photo sensor. Documentation according to CMM level 2.  ? Developed security device software of IDTECK using VC++ in programming languages as following: OLE-DB, ICOP, COM. Designed the protocol among the security device, server, and client. Developed Software Development Kit (SDK) for 3rd party company with sample of C#, and Visual Basic. Server and client used TCP/IP and UDP/IP, and server can handle the packets of 200 devices at the same time.  ? Developed Project Management System (PMS) of Korea Financial Telecommunications & Clearings Institute (KFTCI) under Windows Server environment using e-Gov framework in programming languages as following: Java, jQuery, jqGrid, DynaTree, ajax, IBATIS. The solution keeps all the record according to CMI Level 4 and provides a project management tool for email, schedule, equipment, decision making.  ? Developed PDA software under WinCE environment for Logistics Company such as Dongbu, and Sinsegye. PDA is equipped with barcode scanner and Wi-Fi modem so that it scans a barcode and sending to server. PDA shows the daily work schedule after download from the server, and it shows detail of each barcode when the employee press the detail button. Software Developer CXP INC - Seoul, KR March 2002 to May 2005 Korea  ? Developed a video chat messenger which supported video, voice, and text chat, under Linux environment using VC++. The server handled packets of 200 users at the same time.  ? Developed Spider Hunter which was online RPG. Developed the web site for Spider Hunter using CGI, PHP, and Oracle under Linux server.  ? Developed an installer for PCMedia which did not use the Install Shield of Microsoft using zlib library.  ? Developed PDA Chat Program using eVC++. SK Telecom launched this video chat service. Education Associate of science in Computer Science Korea Polytechnics College February 2002 Skills C#, VISUAL C#, C++, JAVASCRIPT, JSON Links http://parksanghu.wix.com/resume Additional Information SKILLS AND ACTIVITIES  License  Industrial Engineer Information Processing  Qualification Certificate No: 01201200256H  Passing Date: June 04 2001  Issued by Human Resources Development Service of Korea    Speaking Language    Technical skills  Computer Platforms Used  - Windows: Win32/64, WinCE, Windows Mobile, embedded XP, Windows Server  - Linux: Ubuntu, fedora, Redhat, embedded Linux  - Cross Compile: AVR, M32C, M37842, ARM  - Microsoft Office Excel, Word, Power Point, One Note, Access    Program Languages & Skills  - C (6 years and 4 months)  Development of one chip programming in Cross Compile Environment for M32C, M37542, ATmega64.  UART (RS232/RS485) Communication, stepping motor control with an actuator/photo-sensor, embedded Linux.  - Visual C++ (10years)  Development of the face recognition through a camera, Server/Client Program, Stock Management Program on PDA.  Socket & Serial Communication, I/O Completion Ports (IOCP), Win32, MFC, OLE-DB, ATL, Open CV, Direct-X, WinCE  - Visual C# (5months)  Development of Server/Client Program.  Socket Communication  - Visual Basic (1year and 7months)  Development of sample for using SDK which was based on COM and distributed to the public. Excel VBA.  - Java, JSP, Javascript, jQuery, Ajax, json (1year and 2months)  Development of Project Management System (PMS) which system was based on a web.  - SQL (5years 8months)  MSSQL, Oracle. I can make a procedure and PL-SQL as well.  I used SQLite when I developed a stock management program on PDA.  - PHP, CGI (11months)  Development of website.