Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Boeing Saint Ann, MO Work Experience Software Engineer Boeing June 2018 to Present • Test Flight Computer with Python code  • Maintain Software Test Facility Benches  • Follow detailed requirements  • Work on an Agile Software Team Software Developer Intern Quad Graphics May 2017 to January 2018 • Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  • Created front end web pages in a .NET framework.  • Created back end data access with both Sybase and Oracle. Helping to convert from the former to the latter.  • Updated web API to use swagger implementation with ADFS for security. Design Verification Intern Silicon Graphics International June 2016 to August 2016 • Created and updated code for ASIC chip design.  • Retrofitted old logic to work in new system.  • Maintained Cache Coherency  • Learned about message passing between sockets Builder Automated Building Components - Chetek, WI June 2014 to 2015 Automated Building Components Summer 2014, 2015  • Consistently assumed additional responsibilities and worked extended hours to meet project  deadlines.  • Monitored inventory and reported items to be restocked for each job.  • Followed detailed plans to construct rafters Education B.S.E. in Software Engineering in Software Engineering University of Wisconsin - Platteville, WI May 2018 Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, DOCKER, Android, Git, Javascript, MYSQL, CSS, ASP, HTML 5 Additional Information Activities and Involvement  High School Sports  • Four-time varsity letter winner in Cross Country, Wrestling, and Track and Field  • Cross Country Captain for three seasons (Sophomore, Junior, Senior)  o Led practices and helped motivate team  o Organized events such as 5k's and alternative venues for practice  o Held summer practices for those who wanted to train with other runners  • Track and Field State Competitor 2014  SkillsUSA (CWHS Chapter)  • Vice President 2013-2014  • Fundraising  o Organized and participated in several fundraisers for the chapter  4-H  • Showed Cattle from 3rd to 11th grade