Applications Technical Owner Applications Technical Owner Applications Technical Owner - TOS of US Bank Philadelphia, PA Information Technology professional with extensive experience in computer applications. Strengths in analysis, programming, interfacing different platforms, and project management. Industry expertise includes health, financial, mortgage servicing, pharmaceutical, retail, and manufacturing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Applications Technical Owner TOS of US Bank - Brookfield, WI August 2015 to Present Senior Software Developer,  ? Developed two-way interface that bridged a Mainframe reporting system with a Management system on a Windows NT server. I was also fully involved in the end user testing. Technologies included COBOL, CICS, DB2/SQL, VISUAL BASIC, and MQ SERIES  ? Replaced a sales reporting process to read input from an online system rather than manual input on an Excel spreadsheet. The changes prevented typographical errors and abnormal terminations. This was developed using COBOL and JCL.  ? Managed a seven-member offshore team that updated and developed batch programs, JCL, and documentation. Created business and technical specifications that included the technologies JCL, COBOL, SAS, EXCEL MACROS, PKZIP, and FTP. Provided verification to ensure proper specification guidelines and procedures were followed. Also was responsible for the user acceptance testing of all finished projects.  ? Created mainframe data extracts of 150 million records and split into smaller files. These were downloaded to EXCEL and MS Access. This allowed for manageable client files that were transferred to client platforms.  ? Supported 25 daily batch jobs and the reports they produced. Interacted with the end-users and responded to their questions and problems. Software Developer, The Judge Group - Conshohocken, PA June 2013 to July 2015 Worked in partnership with client, advising and programming solutions that met their business objectives.    ? Programmed Data Mining functions for TD Bank that involved EASYTRIEVE, COBOL, VSAM, JCL, and CICS technologies as well as detailed analysis and research that gained insight into customer behavior. The project helped the marketing department offer customers the right product - at the right time - for the right price. Software Developer BES, LLC - Coatesville, PA April 2008 to May 2013 Provided programming skills and knowledge to clients with new and innovative solutions to their problems.    ? Wrote more than 50 EASYTRIEVE programs for a GE Capital. These programs provided critical and timely loan information to Fannie Mae.  ? Improved a Money Order System to handle larger serial numbers for WAWA Corp. The systems were also made easier for users to navigate and understand. The technologies involved were COBOL and VISUAL BASIC. Software Developer 2010 to 2011 Worked in partnership with client, advising and programming solutions that met their business objectives.    ? Programmed Data Mining functions for TD Bank that involved EASYTRIEVE, COBOL, VSAM, JCL, and CICS technologies as well as detailed analysis and research that gained insight into customer behavior. The project helped the marketing department offer customers the right product - at the right time - for the right price. Software Developer 2006 to 2010 Provided programming skills and knowledge to clients with new and innovative solutions to their problems.    ? Wrote more than 50 EASYTRIEVE programs for a GE Capital. These programs provided critical and timely loan information to Fannie Mae.  ? Improved a Money Order System to handle larger serial numbers for WAWA Corp. The systems were also made easier for users to navigate and understand. The technologies involved were COBOL and VISUAL BASIC. Senior Software Developer KEANE, INC - Blue Bell, PA January 1996 to March 2008 In charge of making assignments and tasking individual consultants with specific projects. Also did individual analysis and programming on more difficult projects.    ? Built an interface for a Rorer Pharmaceutical that allowed a Purchasing system to send data automatically to Accounts Payable. This produced less paper work and enabled better vendor analysis and pricing. The effort involved MQ, CICS, and IMS.  ? Installed and supported COPICS manufacturing software that included program fixes for Rorer Pharmaceutical. Wrote over 100 customized programs that became part of the supported system. The technologies involved were IMS, CICS, COBOL, ASSEMBLER, JCL, and VSAM. Senior Software Developer KEANE, INC 1996 to 2006 In charge of making assignments and tasking individual consultants with specific projects. Also did individual analysis and programming on more difficult projects.    ? Built an interface for a Rorer Pharmaceutical that allowed a Purchasing system to send data automatically to Accounts Payable. This produced less paper work and enabled better vendor analysis and pricing. The effort involved MQ, CICS, and IMS.  ? Installed and supported COPICS manufacturing software that included program fixes for Rorer Pharmaceutical. Wrote over 100 customized programs that became part of the supported system. The technologies involved were IMS, CICS, COBOL, ASSEMBLER, JCL, and VSAM. Education B.S. in Information Technology and Business Administration Villanova University - Villanova, PA A.A.S. in Computer Science and Business Administration Delaware County Community College - Media, PA Skills COBOL (10+ years), CICS (10+ years), JCL (10+ years), VSAM (10+ years), IMS (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY:-    Hardware: IBM Mainframe, Windows/PC, Windows NT, Windows 2003  Software:  WINDOWS, MVS, OS/390, z/OS, IBM Utilities, VSAM, QM, SPUFI, MQ SERIES, FTP/SFTP, VPN, File-AID, Intertest, Xpeditor, Librarian, ENDEAVOR, DFSort, Sync Sort, ICETOOL, PKZIP, Cybermation, TSO/ISPF, Microsoft WORD, EXCEL, ACCESS, VISIO, and OUTLOOK    Languages: COBOL, CICS, DB2, SQL, IMS, JCL, EZTrieve Plus, SAS, TSO/REXX