Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - Wells Fargo Edison, NJ • Over 13 years of extensive experience in Design, Development and Implementation of various Multi-tier web applications and windows applications.  • Extensive Experience in application development using Visual Studio, C#.Net, VB.Net, Asp.Net, ADO.Net, JavaScript, Web Services, Window Service, WCF, and Ajax, SQL Server, and Oracle.  • Proficient in converting the Business Requirements into Technical Specifications.  • Excellent Experience in validating the web application at the client side using JavaScript, J-Query, and Angular JS.  • Experience with Agile, Scrum methodology with bi-weekly sprints and JIRA.  • Experience working with Off-Shore model and taking the status updates in daily scrum call.  • Proficient in working with CSS and Photoshop CS-4 for the great look and feel of the application. Working experience in creating SSRS reports and SSIS packages.  • Proficient in middleware components like IIS, Crystal reports, ADO.Net. Experience in Web Forms and Win Forms applications. Expertise in Conversion of ASP to C#.Net.  • Good working experience with MVC in creating and managing Views, Partial Views, View Models.  • Experience in tune the application to scalable to support a number of concurrent users.  • Working knowledge in SOA, LINQ, Web API, Entity Framework, UML, PHP script, and HTML 5.  • Experience in code refactoring with server side and client side coding. Excellent problem solving, interpersonal, and communication skills with the ability to work independently or in team environments.  • Effective leadership skills with self-motivated, presentation skills with a focused result oriented approach and interpersonal skills.  • Love and enjoy the challenge and goes beyond the call of duty to accomplish tasks. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Wells Fargo - North Brunswick, NJ November 2017 to Present Qualys Vulnerability Remediation (QVR): Is a process for managing vulnerabilities from definition to remediation. Qualys is a third-party company holds a repository for software vulnerabilities and rates the severity of the exploitation. The results are stored and communicated via QVR Utility.  Responsibilities:  • Developing the Application using MVC 5, JQuery, Telerik Kendo UI, HTML5, and with SQL Server 2014 as the back end.  • Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Troubleshooting and Deployment for the existing application with new Enhancements and bug fixes.  • Created new modules for the application and created complex SQL queries, procedures according to business requirements.  • Working with an agile methodology to ensure delivery of high-quality work with Bi-Weekly iteration.  • Attending Daily Status meeting, Defect Review Meeting, Backlog Grooming meetings to estimate user stories using Fibonacci series and Sprint Planning meeting to implementing Agile Methodologies.  • Implemented Bulk Edit, Inline Edit, and Excel Upload and Download functionalities.  • Debugging and testing using Test Driven Development using MVC.  Environment: MVC5, C#, SQL Server2014, HTML5, CSS3, JIRA, Telerik Kendo UI, Jquery, Bootstrap, TFS, and SSIS. Sr. Software Developer Long Island City - New York, NY June 2017 to October 2017 School Bus Breakdown Delay System: Upgrade the Breakdown Delay System to be faster operationally, increase data validations to get more accurate information, specify names of dispatcher at vendors end and persons notified (School, OPT) for better audit trail and higher accountability and provide a more efficient user interface and better user experience to vendors.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the Application using MVC 5, Angular JS, HTML5, Web API REST Service and Bootstrap with SQL Server 2014 as the back end.  • Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Troubleshooting and Deployment..  • Worked with an agile methodology to ensure delivery of high-quality work with Monthly iteration.  • Created SSRS .rdl reports to fulfill business requirements. Used Web Client to show reports in MVC.  • Worked on existing applications with new Enhancements and bug fixes. Created complex SQL queries and procedures according to business requirements.  • Worked on Enhancements and Bug fixes in existing Vb.Net applications.  • Created Parent Communication Portal to send Bus Delay Breakdown Notifications to parents.  • Evaluate and identify innovative technologies for implementation. Debugging and testing using unit testing.  Environment: MVC5, C#, Vb.Net, SQL Server2014, HTML5, Angular JS 1.x, Bootstrap, GIT, and SSRS. Team Lead / Sr. Software Developer Utility Service Partners, Inc - Canonsburg, PA June 2016 to May 2017 Utility Service Partners, Inc. (USP) has been to work in partnership with municipalities across the country to address their aging infrastructure. Through a partnership between the National League of Cities (NLC) and USP, the National League of Cities Service Line Warranty Program was conceived  to address this issue on a local level. The program educates homeowners about their service  line responsibilities while providing an affordable solution that helps residents avoid the often-high  cost of water and sewer service line repairs.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the Application using Angular JS, HTML5, Web API REST Service and Bootstrap with SQL Server 2012 as the back end.  • Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Troubleshooting and Deployment.  • Worked with an Agile Scrum methodology to ensure delivery of high-quality work with Bi-Weekly iteration. Used SSRS for reports.  • Maintained and enhanced existing applications developed in Vb.net and Oracle. Fine-tuned the existing queries to improve the performance. Created complex stored procedures.  • Coordinate with Off-Shore team and conducting scrum calls every day to discuss project status.  • Evaluate and identify new technologies for implementation. Debugging and testing using unit testing.  Environment: MVC5, C#, Vb.Net, SQL Server 2014, Oracle 11, HTML5, Angular JS 1.x, Bootstrap, TFS, and SSRS. Sr. Software Developer Human Resources Administration(HRA) - New York, NY December 2014 to June 2016 Substance Abuse Tracking and Reporting System (STARS) facilitates the exchange of information between agencies that refer and monitor individuals with chemical dependency disorders and the substance abuse treatment programs that enroll them. Using STARS users submit requests for Client referral or assignment information electronically. Users can view reports and track the progress of the individuals they have referred to treatment.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the Application using MVC 5, Angular JS, Web API, HTML5, and Bootstrap with SQL Server 2008 R2 as the back end.  • Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Troubleshooting and Deployment.  • Worked with an Agile to ensure delivery of high-quality work with Monthly iteration.  • Object-oriented Design and Analysis (OOA and OOD). Support, maintain and document software functionality.  • Created custom directory using Angular JS to fulfill business requirement.  • Created complex Stored Procedure, used SSIS for Data Migration and SSRS for Reports.  • Integrate software with existing systems and Performance tuning, improvement, balancing, usability, automation.  • Created Windows Services to run on a schedule to create and combine the reports and upload.  • Evaluate and identify new technologies for implementation. Debugging and testing using unit testing.    Environment: MVC5, C#, HTML5, Angular JS 1.x, Bootstrap, ABDpdf9, Web API, Widows Services, TFS, SSIS, and SSRS. Sr. Software Developer Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications - New York, NY April 2012 to November 2014 Notify NYC: City of New York's office of emergency management maintains a website where users can  register to receive emergency notifications either through SMS or emails. OEM (office of emergency management) is teaming up with a new vendor 'SWN' to create a new platform for emergency notification. To support the new vendor's platform the existing portal for Notify NYC has to be enhanced with GIS capabilities and robust scalable data exchange pipeline. Application URL: www.nyc.gov/notifynyc.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the Application using C#.Net, ASP.Net, WCF, HTML5, JavaScript with SQL Server 2008 R2 as the back end.  • Responsible for taking Requirements, Design, Development, Testing, and Deployment.  • Developed Client/Server side validations according to Business rules.  • Used Jquery and JavaScript for Client side Validations. Created Master pages and CSS classes.  • Business layer logic Created and consumed by WCF services. Used Log4Net for logging.  • Developed the application in responsive design using Bootstrap which supports all Mobile Devices and all browsers. Created Database Tables and Developed Stored Procedures for the Application using T-SQL to retrieve, store and modify the data.  • Developed the Admin Portal in MVC4 and used LINQ Technology extensively throughout the Admin portal. Used ASP.NET 4.0 Framework and MVC with Razor view to designing and develop the application. Used ADO.NET Entity framework to data interaction between application and database.  • Used Red Gate tool to compare the SQL server Databases, and used SQL Profiler to monitor the database call with the values. Created SSIS packages to run every day on schedule to sync with the vendors DB.  • Tuned the application to scalable to support the desired number of concurrent users. Tested the Application to resolve technical issues and investigated software faults.  • Created Windows Services to run according to the time interval, get the XML RSS feeds and save in the database and sends the data to a third party vendor.  • Created Documentation according to enhancements in the Runbook. Used APP DEV WIKI (XML format) as a central repository for all documentations.    Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2010, Windows Server 2008 R2, SQL Server 2008 R2, Asp.Net, C#.Net, JavaScript, Jquery, WCF, Windows Service, SVN, SSIS, Team City , Red Gate, SQL Profiler, MVC4, LINQ, Quality Center,Log4Net, CSS,IIS 7, Google Analytics, and HTML5. Software Developer/Team Lead OMB-City of Newark - Newark, NJ October 2008 to April 2012 Food & Drug: This application redefines traditional complaint tracking methods used within The Division of Environmental Health. The Food & Drug Application is designed to be an asset in planning, scheduling inspections, reporting, marking critical analysis and data management, as well as, optimizes resource utilization.  Newark Enterprise Resource Portal (NERP) - Share Point: This portal is developed for Intranet use. It has various sites for various Departments. This Project includes features like Document Management, Workflows, Announcements, Calendars, My Sites, User Profiles, Excel Services, Content Search, People Search, User Management, and Custom Permissions.  Trade Waste Permit: This Trade Waste Permit is required to be obtained and posted by small business establishments designated to receive refuse collection consistent with the New Jersey mandatory Recycling act.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the Application using C#.Net, ASP.Net, JavaScript and AJAX Toolkit with SQL Server 2008 R2/ Oracle 11g as the back end. Designed UML diagram for better understands the workflow of the application.  • Responsible for taking Requirements, Design, Implementation, Testing, and Deployment.  • Created Database Tables and Developed Stored Procedures for the Application to retrieve, store and modify the data.  • Involved in the code peer reviews to maintain the coding standards and to minimize the bugs.  • Implemented Authentication and Authorization for users to retrieve the web pages according to their logins.  • Created Web services to get the weather and time updates and have written web services to get the data from the database.  • Create SSRS reports using Business Intelligent Studio. Used SSIS to export the data from Microsoft Excel to the database. Implemented E-Mail functionality with required attachments.  • Created Document Libraries and managing permissions. Created sites for different Departments.  • Created Custom Web parts to track of users and their permissions among different sites.  • Created Custom Web parts to upload the excel files, generating reports, displaying reports into Excel Web parts. Created and configured Announcement lists and setting user permissions.  • Created Master Page, Themes for a better look. Create SSRS reports using Business Intelligent Studio. Developed reports using Crystal Reports.    Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/2010, C#.net, Asp.Net, SQL Server 2008 R2,Oracle 11g, JavaScript, AJAX, Jquery, SSRS, SSIS, CS3 (Photoshop, Flash), CSS, SharePoint Designer 2007/2010, TFS, Crystal Reports XI. Software Developer CY-FAIR Credit Union - Irving, TX March 2008 to October 2008 Tracking System Active Monitor: TSAM is a product that uses to provide active alert and monitoring capabilities to technology and business users. TSAM features include: Scheduled job monitoring - start and end times, slowdowns and failures Application slowdowns and stoppages Provide any ad hoc alerting, Set up Monitoring rules and email alert subscribers, View and track application alerts - daily configure priority and frequency of alerts based on the severity levels.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the Application using C#.Net, ASP.Net and JavaScript with SQL Server 2005 as the back end.  • Developed screens in ASP.NET and provided connectivity by ADO.NET to display latest news and bid/ask rates of various currencies.  Wrote complex stored procedures and triggers to implement various business logics as per the client requirements. Performed Unit Test and Integration test of both Database and Distributed Systems.  Environment: ASP.NET, C#3.0, SQL Server 2005, Web Services, HTML/DHTML, Crystal Reports. Software Engineer Purkinje - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2005 to December 2007 India    Care Series: Care Series Integrated Clinical, Billing Solution and suite of software solutions that facilitate clinical and administrative workflow within busy medical practices. Practices can choose individual products within the series or can elect to utilize the entire system to reap the numerous benefits a truly integrated EHR and Practice Management solution can offer.  Auto Dispatch: Care Series new providers need to maintain the data of the patients. For these new providers, we designed a tool to download the files, convert these files into the .tif format and upload them to the production server automatically.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the Application using VB.Net, C#.Net, ASP.Net, JavaScript with Oracle as the back end. Created Win forms using C#.  • Involved in the Code Conversion from VB.Net to C#.Net. Involved in code migration of ASP pages to C#.Net pages and VB 6.0 to c#.net to implement the Object Oriented Methodologies for better maintenance of the code.  • Developed the application in 3-Tier architecture like Presentation Layer, Business Layer, and Data Layer.  • Developed Oracle Functions for the Application to retrieve and modify the data.  • Involved in the code peer reviews to maintain the coding standards and to minimize the bugs.  • Interfaced with Testers to resolve technical issues and investigated software faults. Interfaced with Testers to resolve technical issues and investigated software faults.  • Developed Stored Procedures and T-SQL queries for the Application to retrieve and modify the data.  • Developed Reports extensively using SSRS and then converted into Excel and PDF formats according to the client's requirement. Maintaining the project after delivery and resolving compatible issues.    Environment: C#.Net, Vb.Net, Asp.Net, Java Script, SVN, Oracle 9i, N-Unit, VB6, and ASP, SQL Server 2005, Reporting Services. Jr. Software Engineer I Concept Software Services - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2004 to August 2005 India    Pharmacy Management System (PharMS): This product is being developed for a Domestic Pharmacy. The aim of the system is to develop an application to monitor all the activities performed in a Pharmacy store. This covers all the Sales, Orders and Bills related tasks.  Autoprome: It automates to plan and execute a project so that the management can efficiently estimate plan. Collect data and track all project parameters like cost, size, effort, schedule, quality, risks, dependencies up to all levels of projects and organizations.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the Application using VB.Net, ASP.Net, JavaScript and CSS with SQL Server 2000 as the back end.  • Involved in Requirement Collection, Analysis, Design and Coding for the Feature Enhancement.  • Created the Win forms using C#. Developed the application using Object Oriented methodologies. Involved in developing Database Design. Developed stored Procedure for the Application.  • Involved in the Unit Testing. Involved in the peer reviews of the code. Performed Manual Testing to check for bugs. Coordinating with the testing team for defect analysis and regression testing.  • Involved in documenting the Help Document. Involved the Installation Process at Client place.    Environment: Vb.Net, ASP.NET, Visual Studio.NET 1.1, Windows XP Professional, SQL Server 2000, Win Runner 7.5, Test Director 8.0, and crystal reports. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2003 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2000 Skills Ado, Ms access, Ado.net, Sql server, Oracle, Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nagaraju-yayavarapu-aa659133/ Additional Information Skills  Languages: C++, C#, Vb.Net, Asp.Net, Ado.Net, VB6, ASP, T-SQL, PL/SQL, JavaScript, J-Query, Angular JS, LINQ, CSS, and PHP.  Databases: SQL Server 2003/2005/2008/2012/2014, Oracle 9/10/11, MS Access.  Tools: VSS, CVS, SVN, Team City, TFS, Bit Bucket, JIRA, Red Gate, SQL Profiler, IIS 5/6/7, Log4Net, Google Analytics, and Quality Center.  Microsoft Suit: Net Framework 1/2/3/3.5/4/4.5, Web API, WCF, SSRS, MVC, Entity Framework, Windows Services, and SSIS.