QA Lead Engineer/IT Business Analyst and Change Management/.Net Developer QA Lead Engineer/IT Business Analyst and Change Management/.Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> .Net Developer - JP Morgan Chase Wilmington, DE • 10+ years of functional and technical experience in Developing, managing, designing and implementing business applications  • Expertise in Microsoft Technologies such as ASP.NET, C#.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, Visual Basic 6.0, SQL Server 2008/2012, Web Service, Windows Service, MVC.  • Worked on application development, enhancement, and maintenance of existing applications that involves planning, designing, coding, unit testing, preparation of code deployment components, and deploying to higher environments.  • Worked on web based applications by developing new web pages using ASP.Net MVC, ASP.Net, C#, SQL Server, WCF, based on the requirements, test the code and deploy to different application server environments.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), and Test Driven Development. (TDD).  • Experience in analyzing Functional requirements, designing UML, Use Case and Class Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Excellent experience in dealing with Events, Assemblies, User Controls and Custom Controls.  • Expertise in designing ASP.NET based Graphical User Interfaces with CSS, JavaScript, J-Query, AJAX, Multithreading, DHTML and HTML.  • Experience in designing and branding Master Pages utilizing Server Controls, User Controls, Data Grid control, Form Validation controls, Custom controls and CSS.  • Strong experience in data retrieval and manipulation using ADO.NET data objects such as Dataset, Data Reader, Data list, Data Adaptor  • Proficient in develop Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and Views on SQL Server.  • Experience in working with Visual Studio, SQL Server 2012/2008/05/00 and Oracle.  • Experience in working with Visual Source Safe (VSS), SVN and Git-bit bucket.  • Involved in Unit Testing, debugging, bugs fixing and documentation of the system  • Worked on the highly customizable and extensible web products, stand alone applications and client- server applications.  • Managed development and resources in the successful completion of project deliverables.  • Involved in Unit Testing, debugging, bugs fixing and documentation of the system.  • Good understanding of Project development with excellent analytical skills and good exposure to entire Software life cycle with Software Development Processes & Models: Agile, Waterfall & Scrum Model.  • Experienced to interact with clients on Requirement discussions, perform Requirement analysis, prepare effort estimation, Code, test, and prepare functional documentation.  • Work on major and minor enhancements to meet business requirements and supporting the production system involving troubleshooting production incidents, analyzing and fixing application performance issues and tune the database queries to improve its performance.  • Conduct post deployment review to identify the root cause of defects and develop strategy to eliminate defects in the next development cycle.  • Self-motivated, responsible and proper time management with good Written, Verbal and Listening skill, commitment to co-operative teamwork.  • Played the role of a technical lead and have managed teams involving 4-8 members.  • Excellent in learning new technology and easily adapt to a new environment. Work Experience QA Lead Engineer/IT Business Analyst and Change Management/.Net Developer JP Morgan Chase - Tampa, FL August 2011 to Present Description: ZiPPY Home Lending Home Lending Technologies is project is a simplified management of mortgage portfolios, most loans can be processed according to Chase policy. The loan policy is based on special circumstances of the transaction or the borrower. Special circumstances are also called mitigating factors. Mitigating factors can include: a long Chase relationship, substantial cash reserves, or low LTV. Usually a Loan Processor will request and the loan requests may also occur from Loan Officers, Underwriters or Others. The Chase Home Lending Work bench processes requests for these loans. The underwriter group reviews all criteria for request and makes a decision of approve or decline. Underwriters have the authority to make loan decision.  Description: Mortgage Express Home Lending Technologies is an enterprise suite of applications used to Originate, Underwrite, Process, and Close mortgage loans for Chase customers. This platform is expected to replace our existing platform (Legacy). These applications were acquired from Quicken Loan (Mortgage Company) and have been converted to reside in the Chase network, among that application OnBase® is enterprise-class integrated document management (IDM) software that combines Workflow, document management, imaging, and enterprise report management technologies in a single, web-based Application. By dynamically organizing and controlling the delivery of documents and by interactively managing the business processes in which these documents are used, OnBase® enables organizations to streamline their operations and share information among their employees, partners and customers.  • Supported Workflow and Work View based OnBase solutions for many Hyland Software customers using agile software development methodologies.  • Performed unit, system and regression testing of the OnBase software suite to identify and report software bugs and defects as identified.  • Created functional specification documents as per the industry standard UML and presented it to business owners as well as IT personnel  • Actively engaged in various project management activities such as status calls, issue tracking, scope change monitoring, resource scheduling, forecasting, time and expense tracking. Estimated the service hours and resources required for various services projects which is then used in the statement of work/contract development.  • Designed, developed applications (in C#, ASP.net and SQL Server), and supported the application during QA and User Acceptance testing. This was a large Retail Banking project, where Mortgage Banking applications are being ported to Retail environment for the first time, so there were numerous cross-platform hardware and software incompatibilities.  • Stepped up to lead my dev team, in addition to development role. Worked hand-in-hand with all team members, increased team productivity and reduced defect by encouraging brainstorming, team work and work sharing, and frequent interactions with offshore team members.  • POC for all external and internal teams, helping my manager manage the team.  • Drove accountability, peer review and cross evaluation in the team, which increased code quality and deployment.  • Designed and estimated project efforts in High Level Design (HLD) and Technical Design Meetings (TDM) for discretionary projects.  • Provide production support and issue triage for all applications.  • Worked with Product owners to help shape the direction of the product based on a combined knowledge of what's technically feasible and what is desired by the end user.  • Managed team's SVN code repository validating all code commits, merging and syncing up new branches with recent code fixes in older branches.  • Extremely comfortable in agile sprint team and occasionally ad-hoc Business Analyst and Supported QA team.  • Involved in Test designing, test development and test execution and some part development.  • Represents QA in project team meetings and communicates results to QA team members.  • Participated in writing Test Plan and Test cases based on software documentation from business, technical and functional requirements as well as development.  • Executed Test cases to verify actual against expected results.  • Creating traceability matrix, with functional specification document and designed document.  • Review the designed document for matching stuff with functional document.  • Developed Test Data for the Test Scenarios as per the functionality of the application.  • Backend testing of the application writing SQL queries for the web content testing.  • Performed system, GUI and functional testing.  • Developed test data for the Test Scenarios as per the functionality of the application.  • Performed screen navigation test to ensure the links are established as per task packets.  • Executed tests script in timely manner with accurate information of pass/fail to update metrics.  • Prepare Status Reports Every Week, which includes revision History, Test case status, metrics, Issues and Defects.  • Extensively used XML to store the data and parse the data confirming to a specified schema for web service testing.  • Responsible for test cases peer review, supervision and estimation.  • Attend meetings with developers and managers for test plan and bug review.  • Ensure that all functionalities of the application are thoroughly tested per the Test Plan documentation.  • Review defect reports from the tester for defect prior to them being assigned into the tracking software for defect fix.  • Revise current test cases to reflect changes made to the requirements documentation for new functionality.  • Verified the data display in the application as well as in the database using Rapid SQL 7.6  • Analyze Functional Specification Document as per Business Requirement document.  • Responsible for create traceability matrix, integration testing, defect analysis/resolution/testing and tracking in Quality center when in QA and UAT testing.  • Work with the developers during the design phase as a liaison to the business with all requirement questions or clarifications.  • Participate in strategic and discretionary projects.  • Lead smoke testing effort after code migrations to all environments.  • Responsible for non-production support of ZiPPY, the Automated Underwriting System for Home Lending Technology. Including troubleshooting outages reported by users, working with WINTEL and DBA resources to assist in remediation and provide root cause analysis.  • Provide on call after hours support for non-production environments to support offshore testing effort.  • Reviewed Designed Document of developer against FSD, and suggested if any change if needed.  • Minutely observed the development life cycle to the end of project deployment till production.  • Worked as a active participate in Change Management, throughout deployment life cycle.  • Preparing the migration schedule on team SharePoint Migration page.  • Request for the ECM ticket to Enterprises Change Management Team for scheduled deployment for each release.  • Responsible for checking coding the file to subversion each iteration and release.  • Conduct the deployment meeting on each iteration and release.  • Responsible for notifying entire Home Lending team for deployment completion with validated items.  • Coordinating with the offshore team for test plan as well as the test script execution.  • Worked as dedicated Non- Prod support analyst.    Environment: SQL Sever 2008, C#.Net, ASP.NET, VS 2010, JavaScript, ALM 11.0, SQL Developer, Oracle 11g, Sybase 15, VB.Net, MSMQ, MQ Series Software Developer Adesa Inc - Carmel, IN October 2010 to July 2011 Description: Toyota Dealer Direct 2.0 (TDD) is a simplified management of lease portfolios, and improved end of lease return and purchase process for the dealer, customer, and Toyota Financial Services. Dealer Direct 2.0 is offering an Enhanced Customer Interface with Unified Platform for Grounding and Bidding. Toyota Dealer Direct has two modules Admin and Storefront. The Admin site of TDD manages and searches the inventory and users as well manage the daily sales event. Create the all kinds of report which involved for the entire transaction made at dealership. It also manages the content displayed on the storefront via content management. The Storefront of TDD is a portal where a dealer or customer buy and bid the vehicle and also it is useful to the dealer to put vehicle on sale. Entire project has been implemented SOA with RUP SDLC methodology.    Adesa.com V1 & V2 Project: This is also an auto auction website as TDD, which is in production. In this project, we te CR for some specific areas and same time we modify functional and display of pages  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for planning and development of enhanced Application life cycle. Study and analysis of current system and business process and integration of new Business enhancements required in the existing system.  • Completed the design and developed N tier architecture using .NET framework with C#.NET  • Implemented Agile Scrum methodologies and TDD (Test Driven Development) for developing the application.  • Applied OOAD (object oriented analysis and design) in analysis, design & development of the project.  • Designed UI and Monitoring panel using MS Data Grid and Database controls.  • Involved in developing the client side scripting files using JavaScript for dynamic actions as well as validations to be performed at the client-side apart from standard .net validation controls.  • Developed win forms to display the status details to application users using C#.net.  • Used Dataset, Data Tables, Data Adapter, Data Reader and other ADO.Net connectivity controls.  • Implemented Web Services using WSDL to retrieve various accounts information.  • Worked on parsing and editing XML documents by validating it to the schema using .Net class libraries.  • Developed Web Services to retrieve all the Details of audit types and their respective details from various databases.  • Participated in (SQL Server) database designing and database programming (database tables, stored procedures, functions, triggers etc.).  • Used Tortoise SVN Source Control management.  • Compiled the Test Plan and specifying requirements for writing Unit test cases.  • Also completed and performed Integration testing of the application.  Environment: ASP.Net 3.5, C#.Net, Web Services, Unit Testing, Integration Testing, Visual Studio 2008 , SQL-Server 2008, XML, MS-Windows XP, CSS, JavaScript, DHTML, SOA, OOAD, UML, VSS Software Developer CCH INCORPORATED - Wichita, KS January 2007 to September 2010 Description: Responsible for development phase of the Sales Tax Office project. Sales Tax Office has two modules, Administration Module and Calculation Module. In the Administration Module applied which is stride to sets company- wide standards, creating entities and divisions, establish nexus, define roles and responsibilities, add and assign users, oversee security, view and unlock locked areas, and perform other administrative tasks. In the Calculation Module implementing the performance of transaction processing, able to create and map stocking units, set up custom groups and items, customize exemption classes and exemptions, and perform other daily tasks  Responsibilities:  • Designed an enhanced graphical GUI (WIN FORM) with features facilitating more information per screen for data entry and resultant display to avoid obstacle of manual communication. Entire GUI designed using C#.Net with the help of tool "Visual Studio .Net".  • Developed the User Interface in ASP.NET 3.5 using C#.  • Developed Middle-tier .NET component, Web Services with C#.  • Use of XML and XML parsers to store information regarding corporate action rules for Web Services.  • Used WPF for Data binding in a flexible, declarative and robust way of getting data into the UI.  • Created Back-End Stored Procedures and User defined Functions.  • Make suggestions on new technologies and procedures to utilize that can improve  • Performed Unit and Integration testing.  • Coordinating and building the development server between the testing cycles.  • Productivity and/or reduce maintenance overhead.    Environment: .Net Framework 2.0, Visual Studio 2005, C#. Net, ADO.Net,, Visual Studio .Net, HTML, SQL Server Reporting Services, JavaScript, CSS, Web Services, Crystal Reports, SQL 2000/2005/2008,Lotus Notes 6.5 , Windows 2003 Server/XP Software Developer PentaSoft - Kathmandu, NP July 2003 to November 2004 1. Environment: ASP.Net, JavaScript, HTML, MS-Access, IIS Web server.  Description: Created a portal for http://www.angenepal.com. This is a local company, which provides, Tour Operation, Work as Travel Agent, Trekking services, Expedition services in Nepal. It's a site of a travel agency in Nepal, include feature like travel information, online booking of expedition, tour, trek, trekking and orders, inquiry, weather, travel bulletin board, city today.  2. Environment: VB.Net & ASP.Net, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2000, Crystal reports  Description: Developed Ticket reservation maintenance for Korean Airlines. It is software for Ticket reservation and flight information system. This is a web based system which is able to maintain exclusive control of customer relationships, flight schedule, Gross sales, reservation, and cancelation, availability of seats and revenue and adjustment of commissions for agents.  3. Environment: Visual Basic 6.0, MS-Access and VBA (Macro - programming)  Description: The company is engaged in export of carpet material to USA. This software helps the company in maintaining its status of client order requirements and supply capacity, Purchase of materials from supplier. It also integrates the export formalities to be undergone  * Client Details  * Production schedule  * Stock Control  * Export Documentation  Responsibilities:  • Created Master Page to display header, footer and side menus, and used web user controls file to expose user interface in ASP.Net projects.  • Worked with business users and team to Develop use cases diagram, sequence diagrams and preliminary class diagrams for the system using UML. Worked with team in detailed design for the use cases and developed detail class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Entered SQL connection strings to database in Web configuration files.  • Based upon user specified parameters, design and gather user requirements for new applications.  • Work with supervisors and project requestors to ensure project requirements are being met on timely manner.  • Develop various applications utilizing ASP.Net, CSS, HTML, Java Script, XML, VBScript, ADO.Net, and Visual Basic.  • Designed and developed .Net Win Forms.  • Provide complete support to existing online applications. Debug and fix reported bugs found in these applications.  • Used ADO.Net connections between various databases (Microsoft SQL Server and Informix) and ASP to display sorted records, update and delete record set.  • Add necessary tables in Microsoft SQL Server and import data from MS Excel File using SQL Server's DTS import/Export Wizard.  • Create several forms using ASP.Net and implement client side Java Scripts to validate all the fields in the forms.  • Facilitate all phases of Web project development, including concept and planning, interface design, usability, scalability, and back-end functionality from a database infrastructure perspective. Used VB for front-end development  • Designed and Development of VB Components for application standard.  • Report generation using Crystal Report.  • Designed the System, Application and database documentation.  • Modifications done in Excel Macros programming using VBA.  • Involved in the system study and design of the project  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration testing for the entire system.  • Involved in the database design of the project  • Involved in the implementation of the project at the clients work place  • Wrote technical/testing documentation. Software Developer InfoCom Pvt. Ltd. Kathmandu - Kathmandu, NP July 2001 to June 2003 1. Environment: VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO, Windows 2000, SQL Server 2000, Java Script, VBScript  Description: Worked in a team as a web developer for online Intranet based site developed for National Planning Commission, Nepal. Site is specially used for annual budgeting funded by HMG or INGOs. Features Monthly, Quarterly and Annual web based report.  2. Environment: ASP.NET/Oracle 8/Crystal Report 8.5  Description: Worked in a team as a web developer for online Intranet based site developed for National Planning Commission, Nepal. Site is specially used for annual budgeting funded by HMG or INGOs. Features Monthly, Quarterly and Annual web based report.  3. Environment: VB.NET/ SQL Server 2000/Access2000  Description: Worked as a Team member/System Analyst/ Developer and carried out detailed system analysis, system design and programming of Vehicle Registration System (VRS) for HMG Department of Transport Management. The main objective of VRS is to connect all 14 zone's registered vehicle information centrally with main head office Bagmati Zone, Kathmandu. The VRS is software to facilitate the registration process of Vehicle and keep track of each vehicle with the current status. The system to be developed in Client /Server based Architecture with database server. VRS handle the transfer of required data on and as when requested. The data transfer within zones is done via dialup connection or email to the head office. The software has bilingual (English/Nepali) feature, Nepali date, security feature etc.  Responsibilities:  • Studied and analyzed the requirements document.  • Used VB.Net and ASP.net for the application development  • Designed and developed the test cases for objects.  • Responsible for writing the interface and the objects in VB.NET for the application.  • Used XML to serialize the objects when necessary.  • Involved in peer reviews, requirement analysis with the customer.  • Used Visual Source Safe for the source code control for the application.  • Responsible for creating the stored procedures, triggers and views for the application which used SQL Server 2000 as a database back end.  • Creating User-Friendly Web Pages. And validating the page field screens and Data testing.  • Involved in System Analysis and Database Designing.  • Responsible for the entire Module Development.  • Participate in Preliminary Design for the various functional sub systems.  • Discuss & resolve design and implementation issues with client and communicate the same to offshore team.  • Performed Unit Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing, Accessibility Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  • Used ASP. Net for front-end development  • Created custom controls in ASP.Net using C#.Net  • Created .Net Components using C#.Net.  • Involved in the design and development of Class library in C#.Net.  • Created Database Stored procedures and constraints to communicate from database.  • Fine-tuned existing SQL queries to improvise execution time.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration testing for the project.  • Leaded a team and ensure the delivery.  • Involved heavily in Unit Testing using (NUnit), Integration testing for the application.  • Ensured that all deliverables followed the company methodology and coding standards. Software Developer Fortune Computers Pvt. Ltd. Kathmandu - Kathmandu, NP June 2000 to July 2001 Project - 1: Accounting software for British Petroleum that had the inventory control system as well as the accounting functionality. It is synchronized with three stations in real time regarding the customer accounts and the inventory system. It kept track of automating the ordering process by triggering whenever the product quantity is below the specified threshold and also create annual, quarterly reports of the transactions.  Environment: Visual Basic 6.0, ADO, Windows 2000, SQL Server 2000. Visual Studio    Project - 2: Total Center Management at Fortune Computer It's software for management of Batch, Attendance, Enquiry, Account, Book-Store, library, staff clock in/out, phone follow-up and the admission management of a center (Total computer training center requirements).    Responsibilities  • Involved in Use Case Diagrams and modeling the system using UML  • Created tables, indexes, stored procedures, triggers, and view in Microsoft SQL Server 2000  • Developed data-access layer using ADO.  • Developed user interface and business logic for the accounting system using Win Forms, SQL Server 2000, ADO, XML and Visual Basic 6.0.    Environment: Visual Basic 6.0, ADO, Windows 2000, SQL Server 2000. Education Bachelor of Computer Application in Computer Application Purwanchal University MBA in MIS Newman University - Wichita, KS Skills Ado, Database, Foxpro, Access 97, Ado.net, Sql server, Odbc, Oracle, Sql, Stored procedures, Sybase, Visual studio, Api, Software engineering, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Json, Wcf Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/aditya-singh-33014231/ Additional Information Technical Skills  • Languages: C#, Visual Basic.NET, Visual Basic 6.0, C, C++, VBA Access Programming, JAVA  • Framework: NET 1.1/2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5  • Scripting: HTML, JavaScript, VBScript, ASP 3.0,  • Data Format: XML, JSON  • Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, ASP 3.0,ASP.NET, XSLT, UDDI, WSDL, WCF, MVC, WEB API, AngularJ  • Web Services: NET Remoting, SOAP, HTTP  • IDE: Visual Studio 2003/2005/2008/2010/2012/2013/2015/2017  • Reporting tools: Crystal Reports 4.6/8.5, Ms-Access Report object  • Databases: SQL Server 7/2000/2005/2008/2012, Sybase 12.5, Oracle 6.5/7.0/8i/9i, MS-Access 97/2000/2003/2007, ADO.NET, ADO, OLEDB, ODBC and Stored Procedures, FoxPro 2.1/3.0  • Concepts: IIS, Migration, System Analysis and Design, Software Engineering, OOAD, Database Management Systems, Operating Systems, Client Server Technology, TCP/IP, IPX, HTML.  • Operating System: Windows9x, Windows NT, Windows 2000/XP2003/Vista/Windows 7, DOS/MS-Windows 3.1, Troubleshooting.