Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Boca Raton, FL Bachelor in Computer Science with experience in design and application  development in high-demand platforms. Expertise in design of object-oriented software and parallel processes. Definition and extension of platforms both software and hardware, according to studies of capacity. Highly motivated by challenges, willingness to learn and perform under pressure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer LexisNexis Risk Solutions - Boca Raton, FL January 2017 to Present October 2017 - Employee  January 2017 - September 2017 - Contractor     - Currently I am working in in development of new products and new functionalities. Fix bugs and testing scripts to core product of the company.  - Handling page templating systems, session data storage, caching, inter-process communication and cross browser compatibility.  - Developing optimal performance solutions for large scale web applications  - Platform Perl, Apache, JSON, Javascript, JQuery, Ajax, CentOs, Webservices, SOAP, MySql, Sybase, Bash, MVC, Scrum, Git Data Developer MSP Recovery - Miami, FL December 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities  Development and deployment of solutions for big data business.  Data Analysis and complex search, standardization of data and structures  Development perl/php scripts to migration, standardization    Skills Used  Perl, PHP, SQL, MySQL, S3, Windows, Ubuntu, Excel Software Engineer / Developer Freelance - Miami, FL October 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities  Design, development and deployment of solutions for small business.  - www.boxeshub.com platform for sending packages. Developed in PHP, Symfony 2, Jquery and MySql.   - Currently working in www.alannatech.com platform for the management of travel agencies.   - Developed in Ruby on Rails, Angular, Jquery, Postgres and integrated with a communications  system through web services. Even development has not gone commercial ( company Start up  mode)  - Technical support www.thethinkinginstitute.com (Moodle)    Skills Used  PHP, Ruby on Rails, MySQL, Postgres, Angular, JQuery, Ubuntu Software Engineer Smartmatic Corp - Caracas July 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities  - Developing scripts (Shell scripts, perl, python, .bat) on demand for integration of different software elements of the technological solution.  - Designing and development of inventory system for take control about the biometric licenses (Ruby on Rails, MySQL and Jquery). Service Provisioning Engineering Supervisor CANTV - Compañía Anónima Nacional Teléfonos de Venezuela - Caracas October 2004 to July 2012 - Design, development and implementation of automatic provisioning system for broadband services. This system was required to interact with a heterogeneous network (Cisco, Juniper and Huawei BRAS, Alcatel, Ericsson, Huawei, ZTE DSLAMs) over different protocols trough CLI on  networking devices. (Languages: perl, C, Java, shell script).  - Designing and development the new interfaces to Operation System Support used in the NOC of the company. Developed in PHP 5 over Symfony and Oracle Data Base, Jquery and Jpgraph for charts and third-party APIS providers devices. This system replace the old monitoring system and permitted set up the devices through web interfaces. (CRUD for set up the networking components).  - Developing interfaces to communicate perl/php/oracle. I used third-party APIs JavaScript and PHP ( jpgraph -oracle ) to show servers status. Software Developer IVIC - Instituto Venezolano de Investigaciones Científicas - Caracas October 2002 to September 2004 Developing and customize production platform and CRM systems for blood products such as plasma derivative and hemophilic factors) Developed in PHP 4.0 /J2SE 1.4 and Oracle, with interfaces in C to communicate with legacy production system. Professor Assistant / Developer UCV - Universidad Central de Venezuela - Caracas June 1998 to July 2002 - Professor Assistant: Course Probability and Statistics. School of Computing, at Universidad Central de Venezuela. Developing projects for the Course Probability and Statistics in ModSim, Matlab, Excel y C. Web Master site course Probability and Statistics. in PHP 4.0, MySQL and JavaScript.  - Developer: Developing of “Sistema de Información Referencia Venezuela (SIRVE)” to recollect data about about the Venezuelan labor force. Developed in J2SE 1.4 / PHP 4.0 / JavaScript / Visual Basic / Oracle and MySql Education Operations Research Universidad Central de Venezuela 2007 to Present Bachelor in Computer Science Universidad Central de Venezuela 1996 to 2002 Skills Python, Perl (10+ years), PHP (8 years), Javascript (10+ years) Additional Information Personal skills and  competences    Languages Spanish /Technical English  Technical ITIL v3.0  Languages: Perl, C, Java, XML, Shell Script  Networking: TCP/IP, UDP, SNMP, SOAP, HTTP, SSL  Operating Systems: HP-UX, CentOs, Windows  Data Base: Oracle, MySQL, PL/SQL  Web Server: Apache  Networking Device: Configuration scripts: BRAS, SWITCH, RADIUS, DSLAM, SIP SERVER  Mathematical models construction and simulations    Courses/Certifications    2013 - ITIL v3.0 Certificate number GR750071038AM  2013 - Gestión Agil con SCRUM  2011 - IP Training. Networking design. Huawei  2011 - Op.ME-60 Multi-serv.Gate.IM2000 DMS (BRAS/AAA). Huawei  2009 - CCNA Interconnecting Cisco Networking Devices  2008 - Oracle 9i Developer  2008 - DSLAM ZTE  2007 - Tecnología de Objetos, UML 2.0 en Análisis y Diseño de Software    ANDREA PATRICIA MORA ACEVEDO  www.linkedin.com/in/morabeans