Technical Team Lead Technical Team Lead Technical Team Lead - DSI • 10 years of professional experience in designing, developing and delivering enterprise software using .NET technologies.  • 4 years of technical team lead experience in leading team of 5 professionals consisting of developers and QA resources.  • Experience in agile software development using Scrum methodology.  • Highly proficient in working with product owner/business analyst to gather requirements, analyze and subsequently use design tools to model the requirements.  • Experience in developing efficient UI applications using Javascript, ajax, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Interviewed and mentored new developers on team for domain knowledge and required programming skills.  • Worked as a full stack developer in an agile development environment to build robust, reliable and scalable web applications. Work Experience Technical Team Lead DSI 2014 to Present Data Systems International  • Worked with UX and business analysts for requirement gathering and defining the technical feasibility.  • Defined project scope, created detailed estimates and used them to identify risks and perform capacity and resource planning.  • Designed and architected the project on a higher level which would be used to create manageable tasks for the engineers on the team.  • Performed project management duties including managing sprint board and iteration planning for the team.  • Conducted code reviews and worked with other developers on team to use better coding standards and writing clean code.  • Mentored new developers on the team in terms of product knowledge and required programming skills  • Conducted and led regular design syncs for the engineers on the team to provide them guidance and transparency to the business needs and higher level discussions  • Communicated across teams to collaborate on designs and testing strategy. Software Developer III Data Systems International 2013 to 2014 • As part of full stack development, implemented AJAX enabled web service to generate JSON for accessing objects on client side.  • Performed load balancing and measured performance on the UI side for better client-server communication.  • Analyzed and improved web application performance using technique like lazy load of images.  • Uplifted solutions to leverage the .NET 4.5 framework using MVP pattern and SOA Software Developer II Data Systems International 2012 to 2013 • Used Facebook's Open graph REST API for communication with Facebook social connector.  • Integrated Twitter and Yammer with the product using their REST API.  • Implemented product enhancements using ASP.NET, JavaScript, jQuery and JSON  • Responsible for upgrading the product from .Net 2.0 to .Net 4.0 platform. Software Developer I Data Systems International 2011 to 2012 • Created and maintained web pages in Mobile Enterprise Platform's web portal component using ASP.Net, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS.  • Developed canvas area using HTML, CSS and Fabric.js for flowchart designing using SVG  • Implemented TDD for UI and JavaScript development using Jasmine testing suite. Software Developer Intergraph Corporation 2008 to 2011 • Responsible for integrating C++ and .Net code to support legacy product using SOA.  • Added these new image formats like PNG, ADRG, CADRG, ECW by enhancing the current image display service engine.  • Added MUI functionality to the existing setup of software which would allow the user to install the software in any of the regional languages supported by the machine. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Alabama in Huntsville - Huntsville, AL 2008 Bachelors in Engineering in Information Technology in Engineering University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra 2005 Skills .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C#, C++ Additional Information Skills  Programming Languages  Technologies    Tools    Database  Operating Systems  Application Framework    C#, C, C++, VB  ASP.Net, MVC, HTML5, AJAX, JSON, XML, CSS3, jQuery, Javascript - ES6  Fabric.js, LINQ, ShieldUI, REST web services, AWS cognito  AWS rds, AWS S3, AWS EC2, React, Typescript, nodeJS,  Microsoft Visual Studio 2012/1015/2017, Team Foundation Server (TFS),  Perforce, Git, InstallShield 2010, WinRunner, Rational Rose  Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MS access, XML file system  Microsoft Windows, Linux Redhat  Microsoft .Net Framework 4.0+