Software developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Software developer Redmond, WA Senior Software Engineer with extensive experience developing successful internal and customer-facing applications and databases for a wide range of leading companies facing critical, complex data management needs. Strong engineering and math background. Documented track record of writing great code and for being able to make significant contributions as an individual contributor or part of a larger development team. Passion for staying current in the latest software languages and development methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software developer Costco March 2019 to July 2019 Responsible for developing HR and Payroll reporting system for Australian Costco division.  ? Created many reports for managing personnel and their pay in Warehouse and corporate sites utilizing Microsoft SSRS/SSIS system.  ? Set up subscriptions to deliver secure reports to all levels of management.  ? Designed and created several tables to support data driven Subscription system with efficiency and minimization of maintenance.  ? Optimized query and report design for fastest achievable performance.  ? Utilized Google's online software tools, Sheet, Doc, etc to communicate, design and document the reporting system. Software Developer Puget Sound Energy August 2018 to December 2018 Responsible for maintaining and enhancing energy imbalalce trading system.  ? Wrote several C# .net applications to manage voluminous files on all file servers in all environments (dev, test, prod). Parallel processing and compression was incorporated for performance improvement.  ? Improved SSIS performance and operation in many different business areas.  ? Helped migrate all software systems to a new data center for DR compliance. Software Developer Premera Blue Cross (FTE) January 2017 to May 2018 Responsible for claims processing system software enhancements via custom add-on components.  ? Tuned and repaired SQL procedures for more efficient performance by a factor of 60 or better improvement.  ? Delivered on mission critical functionality for business using C#.  ? Produced reports for business with SSRS.  ? Enhanced batch jobs adding new functionality.  ? Wrote fast SQL to excel extractor using C# for data conversion for business flow improvement. Contract to FTE Telecommunications Systems Inc March 2013 to August 2016 • Wrote a parallel processing app to import phone company change data to keep the 911(ALI) database current and up-to-date on a continuous basis.  ? Created ASP.net web interface for Automatic Location Identification (ALI) to manage and maintain the voluminous data processed on a daily basis.  ? Created ASP.net web interface that added a secure layer around the SSRS UI.  ? Worked on conversion of 911 system software from newly acquired company Microdata.  ? Converted the internal structure of the code to communicate to a third party package called nCache.  ? Fixed bugs for multiple apps in the 911 suite of software.  ? SSRS vast improvements in performance in reporting needs. Software Developer Onlineshoes.com July 2010 to February 2013 Developed an inventory volume predicting system and UI based on historic data and current trends using a numerical algorithm called least-squares fitting. This tool increase efficiency of inventory management and accuracy by 75%.  ? Wrote EDI application to take EDI 832 files and move into the company internet application. Decreased time to market of new inventory from days to hours.  ? Developed a tracking system for the customer service call center to quickly track trends in online sales.  ? Enhanced internal software for the business to enter information for the website more efficiently using MVC, input models, JQuery, html and more.  ? Using SSIS, C# app to port and translate the files to match company specific data structure.  ? Wrote interface functions to access web services into a company called INOVIS (GXS).  ? Interface to Excel for reporting and correcting errors to data.  ? Used programmatic FTP to communicate with GXS to download EDI files.  ? Designed concurrency checking methods for intranet interfaces to keep internal business user from overwriting other's data. Pacific Systems Integration PSI August 2009 to March 2010 SQL Database Developer / Software Developer  ? Provided enhancement and developed reports using SSIS and SSRS technology using SQL Server 2008.  ? Designed and developed SQL Server database utilizing an entity relationship tool Erwin. Database Developer / Software Developer SeaBright Insurance Company (FTE) December 2007 to July 2009 Developed C# operational application to monitor and report status and failures of the company's night batch processing in real-time.  ? Provided T-SQL development for stored procedures and triggers.  ? Provided support and enhancements streamlining the company's business allowing for more business acquisition.  ? Provided support and enhancement to the company's mission-critical claims software system.  ? Developed new enhancements to the SQL database using Erwin as the modeling tool. Software Developer Federal Home Loan Bank March 2006 to December 2007 Developed C# application tools to manage and maintain the PowerBuilder code.  ? Improved critical bank systems to streamline daily operations thereby enabling business to improve their bottom line.  ? Modified bank software for affordable housing program to keep current with federal requirements as they changed each year.  ? Provided support and enhancement to several banking function applications written in PowerBuilder and Oracle while adhering to SOX requirement set forth by the federal government.  ? Wrote procedures, triggers and error handling routines for critical transaction requirements. Software Developer Columbia Distributing (FTE) March 2005 to March 2006 Improved warehouse management system to increase nightly production and shipping runs.  ? Developed statistical system for monitoring warehouse activity and performance.  ? Modified WMS product to accommodate rapidly growing multi-divisional business expanding up and down the west coast. Software solution accounted for variances in business rules and configurations.  ? Enhanced and modified features of a Warehouse Management System (WMS) to better run the input and output of products in the warehouse. Enhancements enabled users to achieve over a 100% performance increase in data analysis, entry and reporting.  ? Created a testing tool in C++ .Net to perform many different tasks; determine what tables in the database were necessary, make sure that the interface to Visual source safe was synchronized with the PowerBuilder source code, determine the non-essential source code in the enterprise system. Final analysis provided ability to remove 65% of the code base enabling faster code development and solution turn around.  ? Established testing and bug tracking tool in Access to manage bug fixes and enhancement requests.  ? Extended PowerBuilder with C++ modules (DLL) to handle various system interfaces that are lacking in the development environment.  ? Explored possible solutions to slow points in the WMS system utilizing C# solutions; current linear calculation are better suited in a multi-threaded solution. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in Microprocessor Design & Programming Virginia Polytechnic Institute - Blacksburg, VA Skills MICROSOFT PROJECT, SSRS (10+ years), OBJECT ORIENTED (10+ years), IIS, IIS 7, POWER BI, ERWIN, DATA WAREHOUSING (5 years), CRYSTAL REPORTS, HYPER-V, EXCEL, WORD, BI, Git, MYSQL, C# (10+ years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/curtisstephenyoung Additional Information Languages and patterns:  C#, T-SQL, HTML, CSS  Databases:  SQL Server, 2016, 2014, Couch, Oracle, Sybase, Access.    Methodologies:  Object Oriented Design (OOD) methods, Data Warehousing, Agile, Scrum, Yourdon Structured Analysis and Design  Tools/Applications:  Windows 2012 r2 server, Hyper-V, SSIS, SSRS, IIS 7.5, TFS, Source Offsite, Visual Source Safe, Install Shield, Microsoft Project, Erwin, Word, Excel, Crystal Reports, Power BI, Cube