Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Bridgewater, NJ Experienced in building applications using Spring, Spring Boot, Angular, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Java, J2ee, jQuery, ReactJS, KnockoutJS. Exposure to COBOL, JCL, CICS. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Leeds LLC - Newark, NJ April 2018 to Present Developed invoice module to provide detailed invoices for all items collected in Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, SQL, JavaScript,  KnockoutJS, jQuery, HTML5, and SCSS, decreasing process involving 5 page loads down to 2.  ? Created web based packaging system using JavaScript, KnockoutJS, GoJS, HTML5, and SCSS and to provide clear  view of structure and decreased time needed to package by 50%.  ? Created package transport system using JavaScript, KnockoutJS, Java, J2EE, and SQL server to validate package  against rules, reducing steps required by 50% and increased client satisfaction. Full Stack Developer UPS - Parsippany, NJ June 2014 to April 2018 Integrated 25 external marketplaces to UPS Shipping using Java and J2EE to develop RESTful APIs and built UI  using AngularJS, HTML5, and CSS3 and to which resulted in increase of UPS customer base by 30%.  ? Enhanced web-void using Java, J2EE, and JavaScript, enabling UPS Shippers to logon and VOID unused packages;  improved unused package number recovery by 25% and customer satisfaction by 60%.  ? Built time-in-transit report generation system in Java, Spring, and JavaScript, generating 60M records for sales team.  ? Constructed scanner input processor app for UPS HUB desktops, to help increase speed of package intake process  using JavaScript, Node.js, Node-Webkit, HTML5 and CSS3, reducing 4 step process to 2 steps.  ? Added functionality to UPS eTT webportal to enable customer service reps to enroll customers to UPS MyChoice  using JavaScript, Java, CICS Web Services, and COBOL, increased MyChoice enrollment by 40%. Lead Software Engineer Charming Shoppes - Bensalem, PA January 2013 to June 2014 Led team of onshore and offshore developers to migrate legacy mainframe apps to Linux systems using Java, J2EE,  SQL, and SQL Server to replace Mainframe apps, reducing operating costs by 50%.  ? Consolidated inventory management system using Java and J2EE, eliminating duplicate re-ordering of replenishment  goods and reduced inventory order costs by 1/2.  ? Developed warehouse migration system to help move to modern warehouse using Java, J2EE, SQL, SQL Server, and JavaScript, saving around $3 million due to closure of obsolete warehouse. Senior Software Engineer Dun and Bradstreet - Parsippany, NJ February 2009 to January 2011 Created web-based toolkit application using Java, J2EE, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Oracle DB to facilitate migration  from similar legacy mainframe application and saving 30% in operating costs.  ? Redesigned existing back-office applications using Java and J2EE to migrate from ASP.NET while incorporating  learnings from legacy system to remove all issues and decrease billing errors by 60%.  ? Migrated Canadian billing systems to US back office systems; created Java and J2EE applications based on Canadian  billing systems and decreased operating cost by $6 million. Software Developer Wipro Technologies December 2005 to January 2009 Supported and maintained data supply applications using Java, J2EE, SQL, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS3 to ensure  error free, smooth operation and reduce data errors in product of client. Education B.E. in Instrumentation Technology Malnad College of Engineering June 2005 Skills Html5 (10+ years), J2ee (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Sql (5 years), HTML 5, Git, CSS, jQuery, React, Angular, Nodejs, Angular, Nodejs, React, COBOL, JCL Links http://linkedin.com/in/bhavanthimmaiah