SOFTWARE DEVELOPER <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SOFTWARE DEVELOPER WITH 10+ YEARS EXP. Colchester, CT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SOFTWARE DEVELOPER COORDINATED SYSTEMS - East Hartford, CT 2019 to Present Developing and architecting the company's new ASP.NET Core application.  - Architecting the company's new enterprise C# ASP.NET Core MVC Bootstrapped cross platform solution for the customer's ease of usage from any device. SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER WASTE MANAGEMENT - Windsor, CT 2015 to 2018 Provided ERP system enhancements.  - Architected and developed enhancements to the company's ERP system increasing customer satisfaction and system efficiency.  - Multi-threaded the company's overnight creation process of Billables, Payables, and Workorders preventing it from executing into next business day.  - Developed an overnight automatic Payable reconciliation process for incoming Vendor Invoices greatly saving user's time of manually reconciling invoices.  - Leveraged MVC 5 and Bootstrap to produce platform agnostic applications. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER MARITIME PROGRAM GROUP - Westbrook, CT 2015 to 2015 Provided billing system enhancements.  - Created a billing web service that provided a single billing end-point for several client applications. APPLICATION SPECIALIST ( SOFTWARE DEVELOPER) SELECTIVE INSURANCE - Glastonbury, CT 2014 to 2015 Developed automation solutions for the Commercial Property & Casualty aspects of the business.  - Led several off-shore personnel. Architected and developed enhancements to commercial policy issuance software.  - Authored technical specifications, conducted code reviews, and divided tasks across off-shore engineers; also participated in the software development. LEAD SOFTWARE DEVELOPER SS&C TECHNOLOGIES - Windsor, CT 2010 to 2014 Provided internal and client-facing financial automation solutions.  - Conceptualized, architected and developed a new enterprise ETL solution greatly saving time and costs. Also responsible for the development of the company's new client-facing document management system. SYSTEMS CONSULTANT LEXISNEXIS - Hartford, CT 2007 to 2010 Developed client-facing and internal automation solutions.  - Accomplished in commercial lines property and casualty Web and Windows application development for new and transitioning clients.  - Mentored several staff members, providing training and code reviews which increased knowledge of system's architecture.  - Led and developed several internal automation efforts conceptualizing business solutions, authoring functional specifications and well as developing software. MIS PROGRAMMER ANALYST CT ATTORNEYS TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY - Rocky Hill, CT 1999 to 2007 Reported to the Vice President of Information Systems, providing both client-facing and internal automation solutions.  - Developed a Customer Relations Management (CRM) system that provided sales, marketing, and administrative staff at six offices with internal and remote access to the customer relations database; allowed management to develop and analyze business strategies, provided customer intelligence, customer profiles, business metrics, visit scheduling, expense tracking and prospective customer information.  - Designed and developed paperless office systems allowing documents and data to be directly imported into the company's info structure dramatically decreasing manual data entry.  - Developed several secure on-line services to the corporate web site protecting customer privacy and dramatically reducing the number of service-oriented phone calls. Succeeded at providing an expense-free, secure, quick and efficient way of providing services to customers. Also developed several XML Web Services to electronically extend services to business partners in the industry.  - Developed a Title Insurance Rating application servicing several client applications benefitting external customers as well as the Accounting, Customer Service, Legal Services, Policy Processing departments and all remote branch offices. Education Associate of Arts in (AA), Mathematics / Computer Science Harrisburg Area Community College Central Connecticut State University Waterbury State Tech Manchester Community College Skills Software development, Project architecture, Database, Database design, Technical leadership, Maintenance, Quality assurance, Architecture, Javascript