Senior Object Oriented Programmer Analyst Senior Object Oriented Programmer Analyst Senior Object Oriented Programmer Analyst - American Airlines Mesa, AZ • Over 20 years experience developing software applications as well as creating/maintaining toolkits for other developers.  • Skilled in maintaining and enhancing code developed by other programmers.  • Diligent in completing projects with strong attention to detail.  • Enjoy working independently as well as in a team or non-technical environment.  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills.  • Languages: C#, WPF, ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, XML, Visual Studio C++, Qt, Borland's Object Pascal, Borland's C++Builder, PHP, Perl, MS/DOS 8086 Assembly Language.  • Databases: SQL Server, Oracle.  • Platforms: Angular, WPF/MVVM, MVC, WCF, REST, Dotnet Core  • Operating Systems: Windows, Macintosh, Linux.  • Version Control Systems: Team Foundation Server, Git, Subversion. Work Experience Senior Object Oriented Programmer Analyst American Airlines April 2013 to Present Work in agile team environment as lead developer for various projects utilizing windows services, windows communication foundation (WCF), model view controller (MVC), windows presentation foundation WPF/MVVM and Angular 7. Helped write M&E application to help insure correct parts were installed on aircraft. Helped write application to allow flight attendance to bid on the flights they wanted to work on. Helped write Crew Data Repository application to help the business with forcasting how many flight attendants need to be on flights based on last years data. Wrote application in WPF to allow access to IBM MQ queues so that we could manually place messages on the queue, take them off the queue and see how many messages were currently on the queue to enable easier development and support of various applications. Software Developer inData Corporation May 2011 to March 2013 Wrote web services, WPF applications, silverlight applications and websites for various products using Visual Studio 2010 and C#. Also utilized sql server database application projects for creating and maintaining project databases enabling complete version control of all tables and stored procedures. Software Developer Enoserv July 2009 to May 2011 Wrote Windows Service/Database Backup Application using C# and WPF. Wrote C# components for Vector/RTS. Wrote work order management functionality for PowerBase. Worked on Vector Application, written in C++Builder, to improve User Interface. Wrote integration code in Delphi to allow Enoserv's PowerBase to import Adwell test results. Wrote C# standalone application to allow importing Adwell test results. Updated support website to match look and feel of main website. Consultant iLinc Communications March 2009 to August 2010 Responsible for enabling iLinc to be able to visually tell who is the current speaker in a teleconference call, using Qt and C++ in Visual Studio 2005 and XCode on the Mac. Application Developer iLinc Communications July 2007 to March 2009 Responsible for developing communications software, using Qt and C++ in Visual Studio 2005 and XCode on the Mac, enabling iLinc to be able to record a conference call on a phone bridge and also to control integrated audio calls: Mute the call, put the caller on hold, etc. This entailed writing code to allow the client to communicate with the conferencing server, the conferencing server to communicate with the audio conferencing center and the audio conferencing center to communicate with the telephone soft bridge, each on different servers. Wrote code to allow iLinc to use third-party phone bridges and provide integrated control of user phone lines. This was accomplished through a client-server, SSL, multi-threaded environment. Developed a SOAP client and a SOAP server to enable communication with third party phone bridges.    Developed code for converting iLinc's PowerBoard functionality to use Qt's GraphicsView class in order to allow it to be more efficient and with the end goal of allowing PowerPoint animations. Software Engineer Nevrona Designs 1998 to 2007 Maintain and enhance the Rave Report Writer toolkit. Provided the ability for Nevrona customers to add dynamic Tips and Tricks to Nevrona's web page using a combination of Perl, HTML and IntraWeb. Wrote, in Delphi, Nevrona's inhouse customer tracking program, which uses SQL Server for its data storage. Wrote, in Delphi, the bar code functionality which is included in Nevrona's Rave Reports (a programmers reporting toolkit). Provided the capability to output reports natively to HTML, PDF, PostScript, RTF and Text formats. Wrote a Java JNI wrapper around Rave Reports 3.0 so that it could be used within the Java platform. Consultant Intercept Technology 2000 to 2001 Wrote a PDF toolkit in Perl that allowed Intercept to provide detailed engineering drawings in the form of PDF documents to their customers. Developed a web-based engineering part request communication system written in Perl. Also developed a proof of concept for a system whereby parts could be drawn on the web through SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics). Education Certificate of Completion Phoenix College 1985 Diploma Mesa High School - Mesa, AZ 1976