CONTRACT SOFTWARE DEVELOPER CONTRACT <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> CONTRACT SOFTWARE DEVELOPER - COOLWIND VENTIALTION INC Woodhaven, NY Work Experience CONTRACT SOFTWARE DEVELOPER COOLWIND VENTIALTION INC - Glendale, NY May 2016 to Present develop, maintain, and support Autocad based production system written in C#. Debug, troubleshoot and document existing software and develop new features. Support and develop node Js based web site. System Engineer ZyDoc - Islandia, NY January 2014 to February 2016 develop, maintain, and support technical infrastructure, hardware, and system software components. Debug, troubleshoot and document existing software and develop new applications. During the work wrote several services and front end application in Delphi and Java languages. Converted Delphi applications to C# language. Software Maintenance Engineer Unitone Communication INC November 2011 to January 2014 fixing the bugs in the company intercom system software written in C++. Coding additional features which substantially increased the marketability and quality of the product. Technical Support Specialist BBC - Tashkent, UZ October 1995 to June 2011 Provided attentive, timely technical support and troubleshooting to assist a major media corporation in achieving organizational goals. Monitored and followed up the incident calls arrived into corporate incident management system. Diagnosed and resolved network, server and desktop (hardware/ software) problems. Responded to inquiries; offered training, assistance and advice when requested. Installed, improved and upgraded systems. Prepared documentation and reports. Database Developer Namangan Regional Oil Base, Namangan - UZ 1993 to 1995 Enhanced day-to-day operations for regional oil production company by creating software and tools for administrative and financial procedures. Provided timely technical support including troubleshooting and maintenance for users.    Namangan machine building plant, Namangan, Uzbekistan Software Developer Namangan City Hall 1992 to 1993 Consulted with decision makers, identified requirements and developed customized software that streamlined operations for the accounting department within a large machinery plant. Resolved issues and ensured a seamless experience for users.  Namangan City Hall, Namangan, Uzbekistan Education Bachelor of Science in Industrial Automation Sevastopol National Technical University - Sevastopol, UA 1990 Skills .NET (5 years), ASP.NET (5 years), Autocad (3 years), C# (5 years), Database (4 years), Delphi (2 years), Eclipse (3 years), HTML (3 years), Java (3 years), JavaScript (5 years), SQL (5 years), Git, MYSQL Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/efg26m-moc8jrsh Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.