Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Engineer Atlanta, GA More than 20 years of experience in building server architectures for desktop, web and mobile applications. Ability to visualize and implement software, taking it from an initial scoping to roll out. Believe in leveraging common frameworks, open source, and container deployments. Effective as a senior developer or chief architect. Driven by a socially charged culture made up of small cohesive teams. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Appeligo - Atlanta, GA February 2019 to Present Used Angular 4, Typescript and Bootstrap to create an MVP while working with the product and design teams. Created components to interact with third party apis. Added Google, Facebook and Instagram OAuth support. Used golang to stand up a restful api that the apps could hit for storing user state across client sessions. Full Stack Developer Coca-Cola Freestyle - Atlanta, GA August 2018 to February 2019 Contracted to design a docker compose service stack to host the artifacts created by their existing Jenkins build pipeline allowing for runtime testing and third-party integrations. Senior Software Engineer CBS Interactive - Fort Lauderdale, FL August 2016 to August 2018 Designed the AWS network and trained other teams on how to make the transition from the data center. Developed a Spring Boot application for managing push alerts for CBS Sports Mobile. Embraced container-based server architecture porting four of our servers to docker swarm deployments. Senior Software Engineer Pinsight Media - Kansas City, MO May 2011 to August 2016 Created a Java framework on JBoss to acquire, transform, store feeds from various data sources into a common xml grammar for use by our top apps: SportCaster, 1Weather, Express Horoscopes and StarShop. This eventually led me to build a Java service on Wildfly to capture Ad usage, manage marketing campaigns and deliver push services. Senior Software Engineer SAIC - Kansas City, MO November 2009 to May 2011 Replaced existing Drools validation engine with a custom-built Java based one. Created automated JWebUnit Test Suite to simulate user data entry and site navigation. Upgraded projects core modules to version Java 1.5 and fully implemented generics to prevent runtime exceptions. Senior Software Engineer Stubhub - San Francisco, CA July 2007 to June 2008 Worked on the SWAT team to diagnose production problems and deliver instant solutions. Built a web application to control JMS message flow between applications to prevent fraudulent ticket postings. Enhanced the logging and monitoring tools to proactively identify new problem indicators. Senior Software Engineer Finaplex - San Francisco, CA November 2003 to July 2007 Built an excel export feature for all their existing online reports for Lehman Brothers. Moved to the product team and helped rewrite the core code line to be more flexible. As technical team lead was able to customize pieces of the core product for Schwab. Senior Software Developer Robertson Stephens - San Francisco, CA November 1999 to November 2003 Built the messaging tier for a real-time order management system using Tibco and Visual C++. Moved to the eCommerce team and built a high net worth portal using WebLogic and J2EE. Worked closely with the research team to help classify emerging technology companies. Software Developer Cambridge Technology Partners - Atlanta, GA May 1996 to November 1999 Customized a call center app to support telephony account information for Security First. Designed an application that streamlines the deal process for MBNA. Designed and deployed an international currency trading system for the Capital Group. Education Bachelor's in Management Information Systems The University of Mississippi - Oxford, MS August 1991 to May 1996 Skills Java, Javascript, Angular, React, Node Links https://linkedin.com/in/dirck https://github.com/dhecking