Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Houston, TX Software Developer using my expertise with PHP, PERL, JQuery Mobile, Angular, Bootstrap, JavaScript, TELERIK AJAX, .NET, C#, Visual FoxPro, JSON, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, Maptitude GIS, API Integrations, Web Services, SAML, PostScript, Apache, Linux CentOS and Ubuntu, Bash Command Line, BYOBU Terminal, MS Server, ADFS, DNS, VPS, Hardware and Network Administration. Interested but not limited to building more work experience with Angular, Python, and horizontal scaling database tools such as Casandra, MongoDB, and or others. Work Experience Software Developer Questmark Information Management - Houston, TX July 2015 to Present Software Development using PHP, PERL, Angular, Bootstrap, jQuery Mobile, JavaScript, Padre, MySQL, PostScript, BASH, BYOBU Terminals, NetBeans, Linux CentOS and Ubuntu, ADFS, Eventum and MediaWiki.    • Developed the Downtown Harris County Court Summons data processing, document generation, and production scheduling system, as well as for the 8 Harris County Constable Precincts Courts, with PostScript, PERL modules, and MYSQL.    • Developed the Email Notification System for HCTRA "Harris County Toll Road Authority"; sends high volume priority notifications and batch processes SFTP bulk notifications in XML format. Developed the Test, UAT, and Production environments including the Linux Servers setup and configurations, PHP Web Service, PERL code libraries, MYSQL Databases, and the API Usage Manual.    • Developed the Online e-Statements Web Application for NTTA "North Texas Toll Road Authority", as well as their SMS Text Messaging system. Developed a 3-teir Linux Server security delegation infrastructure, for mobile security migration, PCI compliance, and device compatibility. Developed the UI and database for User Registration and access to Bills and Statements with PHP, jQuery Mobile, various levels of CSS media queries for optimal Responsive behavior, and several MYSQL databases. Developed a URL encryption module with PHP for the printed QRCode on the physical Statements, which automating the user account validation process during User Registration.    • Developed the IMPB Certified Barcode system including the IMPB Barcode, the Electronic Transmission Shipping Manifest, and API Integrations with USPS Business Center. Developed the PERL modules for retrieving and processing the USPS returned Confirmation datafiles, Tracking and Delivery Statuses datafiles, decrypting the Proof of Delivery Electronic Receipts "encrypted signature PDF files", packaging and sending results outbound to Client's via SFTP. Developed several MYSQL tables for housing the build and transactional data.    • Developed and configured ADFS SAML SSO Service between PHP, Linux, and a Windows Federation Server, for testing implementation.    • Developed a wide range of processing scripts and modules for automation, Vender integrations, and one-off tasks, in addition to the programs and tools listed above. Software Developer Genesis Marketing Group Inc - Houston, TX March 2012 to July 2015 Software Development using NetBeans, PHP, JQuery, JavasScript, MySQL, Visual FoxPro, Linux, ASP.NET C#, Telerik AJAX RadControls, Web Services Integrations, and logistical maps with Maptitude GIS.    • Developed a Return on Investment dashboard as well as the backend DMS integration and database system for the company's clients, using Telerik Ajax UI for ASP.NET, PHP, and MYSQL.    • Developed ADF XML module with PHP for Lead distribution to CRM Providers using ADF 1.0 XML and PHP.    • Developed API Integrations modules with Authenticom and Dataium using PHP and MYSQL.    • Developed a Data Management system for handling the company data processing operations such as building variable structured datafiles for variable print, generating filtered data list, disturbing data for jobs to external venders, and pushing data through 3rd party integrations into the company's workflow. Developed the primary database, the Web Application for distributing data to different processing facilities and vendors, and internal API integration modules for external data providers. PHP, KoolPHP, and MYSQL    • Developed a Web Application for generating Work Orders, Invoices, and Production Reports, with PHP, KoolPHP, and MYSQL.    • Used Maptitude GIS to generate Prospect volume targeting data reports, analytics, geo scattered and heat maps, for the company's Sales force and clients. Software Developer Inner-Net Inc - Houston, TX May 2011 to March 2012 Software Development using ASP.NET, Telerik AJAX RADControls, C#, SQL Server, MS Server, MS FoxPro, Mobile VB, ProvideX, QuickBooks SDK, and .NET Web Services for Wholesale Distribution.    • Developed DSD and ERP desktop, web, and mobile applications for Wholesale Distribution companies such as Starbucks-Evolution Fresh, Marquez Brothers, LaLa Foods, Castro Cheese, and over twenty-five others Wholesale Distributors integrating with their accounting system such as ROSS, MASS 200, Sage, and QB Enterprise using C# ASP.NET, ProvideX, QuickBooks SDK, SQL Server.    • Developed, maintained, and distributed DSD mobile software ARM packages for Motorola, Intermec, other mobile devices using Mobile VB and ActiveSync.    • Developed the mobile app security module for activation, various input forms and reports, and developed the Warehouse Purchase Order receipts for Bluetooth printers, using Mobile VB and ActiveSync.    • Developed a Warehouse Order Management Web Application for distributing warehouse inventory to customer orders and managing delivery route schedules using C# .NET, Mobile VB and Active Sync and integrated with accounting system ROSS.    • Developed a Warehouse Product Promotion distribution system to sync promotion data to product inventory on field devices using C# .NET, Mobile VB and Active Sync.    • Acquired Lead Developer role, participated in the interviewing process and hiring of additional programmers, training, and task delegation to four other developers. IT Programmer Analyst Family Services of Greater Houston - Houston, TX July 2006 to March 2010 Software Development for Clinical Services for private and government contracts utilizing VB.NET and ASP.NET, MS SQL Server, TELERIK AJAX RadControls, Crystal Reports, JavaScript, XML, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, C, C++.    • Developed DataTRAQ and THRIVE Web Applications including the UI, back-end server-side code, and MS SQL Server databases.    • Created and supported system requirements, designs, and process flow documents for development and quality assurance.    • Migrated databases and applications to newer Frameworks and Releases.    • Designed, developed, and supported web applications using ASP.NET, and supported other HTML and traditional ASP websites.    • Network Administration on two P2P Networks, DNS, DHCP, MS Exchange, Web, & SQL Servers, Public IP and Domain Support Programmer Internship Harris County Information Technology Center - Houston, TX January 2006 to May 2006 • Worked with UI and QA teams on JIMS2 (Justice Information Management Systems) providing debugging and enhancements    • Debugged and provided enhancements for their Juvenile Probation software    • Utilized IBM Rational Case tools Clear Quest and Clear Case for documenting defects and enhancement requests.    • Utilized Dreamweaver to update over 200 web forms with enhanced features, and updated baseline documents for the Quality Assurance Programmer Data Analyst PremierIMS, Inc - Houston, TX March 2004 to September 2005 • Programmed User Interfaces and Desktop Applications with MS Visual FoxPro, Mail Data Analysis, Problem Solving and Isolation, Coding, Testing, Debugging, and Documentation; Developed Resident Mail Processing program    • Developed File Converter software for converting variable data files and increased Work Order processing efficiency by 65-85%    • Developed Master Production Analyst Reporting Tool that outputs 7 analytical statistics reports. Lab Tech San Jacinto College - Houston, TX July 2002 to March 2004 • Lab re-imaging, software support, troubleshooting, installed new and upgraded Operation Systems    • Upgraded hardware components such as hard drives, memory modules, power supplies, video cards, CD ROMs, etc.    • Assisted C.I.S. Staff with software support in Visual Studio, MS Office, Adobe Suite, Dos 5.2, in 5 labs with 130+ computers Education Bachelor's in Computer Science San Jacinto College - Houston, TX 2015 to 2021 Associate in CIS Applications Programming San Jacinto College - Houston, TX 2004 to 2006 Additional Information Honors, & Recipient of CSEMS (Computer Science, Engineering, & Mathematics Scholarship)   Current GPA 3.81