Design Architect / .NET Lead Design Architect / .NET Lead Design Architect / .NET Lead - Art.com Andover, MA • Around 10+ years of experience in development of web, cloud, intranet and client server applications. This includes architecture, requirement analysis, system design, prototyping, process modeling, system and data modeling, database design, development, implementation, testing and maintenance.  • Expertise in ASP.NET 4.0/3.5/2.0/1.1, C#.NET, ADO.NET, HTML, IIS, JAVA Script, WCF ,MSMQ,REST, Jquery ,CSS, XML, XML Web services, C, C++, Java, .NET Remoting, MS SQL Server 2014/2008/2005/2000, SSRS), Entity Framework, Oracle 8/8i.  • Building web applications with ASP.NET MVC, WPF, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Experience designing and implementing frameworks and API.  • Involved in Query Optimization and Performance Tuning using SQL Profiler and Index Tuning Wizard..  • OO design and development experience in an object oriented language in c#.  • Experienced in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including System Analysis and Design, Multi-tier application, User Requirements Determination, Coding, Implementation, and Testing.  • Configure and deploy clustering and network load balancing for online banking application.  • Experience in exception handling in C#, thorough knowledge in developing N tire Architecture using ASP, Infragistics.NET controls, and Telerik controls.  • Experience in Stored Procedures and Triggers in SQL Server, T - SQL and Oracle 9i server.  • Worked on Unit test Applications.  • Worked Role Based Security models, Single Sign on and implemented Authentication & Authorization features such as Windows-based Authentication, OAuth based authentication, Forms-based Authentication and Knowledge of Code Access Security.  • Involved Getting Requirement from Business and architecting and interface with existing application  • Worked in Agile environment and user stories.  • Experience in SDLC, Object Oriented Analysis and Design, also have done Documentation using UML. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Design Architect / .NET Lead Art.com - Emeryville, CA April 2017 to Present Project Description  Art.com Inc. is the world's largest online specialty retailer of high-quality wall art and complementary décor. Art.com Inc. runs four sites in the USA - Art.com, All Posters and Zen folio - and has a strong international presence with 25 localized sites in Europe, Japan, Canada, Australia, Mexico and South America.  I am part of Art and home team. And started working on site performance issue and conversion project.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Object Oriented design and workflow for Art and home group.  • Started leading art.com home USA site for conversion project.  • Contributed in implementing enterprise search solution with Elastic Search and its stack.  • Involved in Scrum based approach for team collaboration and for delivering reusable Components.  • Worked on Pricing rule service to maintain price across whole site based on banner.  • Developed web service interfaces for client and policy using WCF and Webapi  • Involved in performance tuning by implementing Garbage Collection methods and caching..    Environment: Visual studio 2015/2013, C#.Net 4.5/4.0, Node Js, SQL Server 2014, Web Api, WCF, Entity Framework, JavaScript, VSS Senior Software Developer Wells Fargo - Concord, CA January 2015 to March 2017 Project Description  Sales presentation group provides GUI and middleware gateway for consumer lending credit applications to support home equity, Personal loan and line, direct auto, credit card and Retail service LOBs. Enhanced middleware support for esignature applications for customer documents to SOR for light storage, submission for all channels, banking storage.  Worked as Design Lead and developed tool for developers to understand platform use of tokens in application configurations. Analyzing and optimizing tokens result in reduction of 30,000 tokens to 5,000 tokens. Made user friendly so that 100 + developers in us + international locations  Could use it with no training. IT helps build team too optimizing their effort for migrating and managing configuration tokens.  I was working on Web service for uploading document and E-signature for customer data.  To reduce network traffic for a database used Cassandra. I was involved in Shadow controller module. Shadow controller , when server goes down during migration window then we will write all application data to Cassandra and then when server is up value go from Cassandra to a database table. I worked on quartz job scheduler to maintain jobs from UI.  I am working on enhancing tool for developer converting all flat file systems to legacy system using Cassandra, AngularJS and Webapi.    Responsibilities:  • Involved designing and architecting applications using C#.net and Angular JS.  • Experienced designing and architecting RESTful APIs  • Reviewed, analyzed, and created prototype C# code to verify functionality of the following Azure services as proof of concepts (POCs).  • Specialized in performance optimization techniques.  • Experienced with Stored procedure and user defined functions.  • Used Caching and Cassandra for reducing network traffic.  • Worked with various backend jobs which includes reporting jobs and caching jobs    Environment: Visual studio 2015/2013, C#.Net 4.5/4.0 , SQL Server 2014, MVC5, Entity Framework, AngularJS 1, Json, Webapi , LinQ , Cassandra, SOAP Software Developer Performant Corporation - Livermore, CA January 2013 to December 2014 Project Description  Worked on web based application for Provider Portal which is used by our Providers and Louisiana tax amnesty program I was working on a debt collection software system, which is used by the call center employees and third party clients. Call center collectors access this system to access the information of the debtor's loans, address, contact information, view media and more. This system is also used by various in-house departments like check control, Finance, letter printing to fulfill various debt collection activities. Customers can access the debt collection system via a web interface to make payments.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating web pages using visual studio 2012 using C#.net.  • Worked on Security and Authentications for Student loan application.  • Worked on Webapi and web services for collecting user profile data.  • Involved in writing database stored procedure and function  • Worked on interfaces with devices and 3rd party services using WCF.  • Getting requirements from collectors and trying to design and developing.  • Experience with Unit test Project.    Environment: Visual studio 2012, SQL server 2012, Json, MVC 4, Web Api, WCF, LINQ Software Developer Wells Fargo - Concord, CA May 2010 to December 2012 Project Description  Home Equity project is basically involved in Loan Modification Process (Refinance). It was windows based application. Coast to Coast project converted from windows to a web application. It collects borrower and co-borrower information related W2, Paystub, Income verification and 1099 from Mainframe. It verifies income depending on stated income. It calculates benefits and refinances percentage income using formulas. It involves Closing Coast, Under Writer, Fee information, Home Asset Management, Mortgage and Pay off etc.  Coast to Coast (c2c) provides task once user login. Depending on the task Priority task will available for the user to process. You can check the history for particular task. Once one task available to one user this task won't be available to another user till the first user is working.  We have used entity framework for C2CTask management.  System that centralizes the information on risk clients. The application is synchronized with the main system of bank clients management and generates warning messages in the case all defined conditions are satisfied. The system includes automated (in batch) data processing and offers a web interface for process control and information search.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating web pages using visual studio 2010(150 screen) using C#.net.  • Created dynamic controls and used infragistic control for question answers page.  • Involved in implementing security and authentication and providing user permissions for different type of users.  • Used Caching for performance issue.  • Worked on stored procedure and triggers for getting the task from the database.    Environment: ASP .net 4.0, C#.Net, SQL Server 2008, JavaScript, Telerik Control , Silver Light, WPF, Infragistics control, Json, Jquery, Win services, CSS, Entity Framework, T SQL, LINQ, Nlog Software Engineer Fujitsu America - Sunnyvale, CA February 2009 to April 2010 Project Description  T and R application is helpful to update tax and rate depending on the state. It calculates Tax depending on County as each county has its own tax rate. It updates AR sales Tax code, AP Sales Tax code and AP use Tax Code.  Work on Financial Reports, Commission Reports, Payment Reports and Inventory Reports using Division, Business Group, and Business Id. It keeps the track for inventory as which Item is sold and which item is in buying process. It keeps the track for invoice no for material. The Consignment Buy Process, when completed by Planner should create a physical transfer of Part from the Consigned Storage Location to FMA Owned Location. The TO (Transport Order) should be created when the Consignment buy is done. A report is required to be updated after consignment purchase and subsequent shipment. FML will require either a daily or weekly shipment report. This is shipments to our customers. The report must include: CT PO number, CT PO line item number, factory part number, shipment to customer date, quantity, and customer name.    Responsibilities:  • Used N-tier architecture for Presentation, Business and data access layer.  • Written stored procedure, functions and triggers-SQL in SQL Server2005.  • Used Ajax Controls, Web forms, JavaScript and HTML for Commission, Payment and Inventory reports.  • Worked with XPath, XML Node, XML Data documents to synchronize with dataset.  • SQL Reporting services for Financial, Commission and Payment Reports.  • Developed XSL, XSD files T & R Application.    Environment: ASP .net 3.5, Microsoft Visual Studio 2008, WCF, LINQ, SSRS, SQL Server 2008 Software Developer Amtel Inc - Santa Clara, CA April 2008 to January 2009 Project Description  This Web application is called Telecom Auditing System. We can manage Company's employees' cell phone records and also voice - data records (land Line). It has functionality like employees can choose devices, one can select contract term and plan and also maintain company's employee's cell phone record list. Manager or admin can see the entire employee details and process the order for the employee and also create login for employee. Manager can approve the order, cancel and process the order. We can manage company's inventory and also month to month invoices. One can connect with vendor's database and audit the data.  The same way for windows application we have used .NET 2.0, sql server.    Responsibilities:  • Extensive use of the ADO.NET objects such as Grid view, Data Tables, Data Readers and Datasets for data retrieval and manipulation  • Used SQL Server for storing and transferring data  • Developed Web Services and multithreading for creating and consuming business components in ASP.NET  • Developed Stored Procedures in SQL Server, SQL Reporting Services for Reports.    Environment: C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET 2.0, AJAX, SSRS, HTML, XML, SQL Server 2005 Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL SERVER (10+ years), C# (9 years), NET, Jquery, MVC, Angular, WCF Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: C#.NET, ASP.NET 4.0/3.5/2.0/1.1, ADO.NET, WPF, Web API, XML WEB Service , .Net Application Blocks, WCF, VB.NET, C, C++, Java  Databases: SQL Server 2014/2012/2008/2005, ORACLE 9/9i Tsql  Web Technologies: C#.NET, AngularJS, Silverlight, AJAX, Bootstrap, and MVC  Scripting Languages: Java Script, JQuery, JSON, HTML, XML/XSL, CSS, XSLT