Software Development Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Engineer Senior Dallas-Fort Worth, TX Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Development Engineer Senior CSG International - Chicago, IL October 2015 to Present - Having expertise developing complex backend business RESTful API services, Microservices using .NET Core 2.2, AWS Cloud, WCF, SOA, Lambda, Kinesis, S3 and Generics.  - Experience in .NET Core 2.2, C# 7.0, RabbitMQ, ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET 2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5/5.0, WCF, ADO.NET, Ajax, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012/2016, XML Web Services, Oracle, ADO   -Served as a full-stack developer on the Ascendon digital-services platform with a focus on core functionality and APIs  - Experienced interacting with Business Owners, Business Analyst, Architects, Test Leads, Developers and Product Owners to gather and analyze business requirements and translating requirements to functional and technical design and user stories.  - Experience of working on Level 2 estimation of the feature depending upon the requirement. Creates HDL, LDL, Sequence diagram in Jira. Gives user story technical insights by providing design solutions using various patterns.  - Experience to monitor APIs performance using KIBANA and enhance the APIs  - Performed Agile best practices using the SAFe framework. Participated in daily scrum stand-ups in addition to planning and retro sessions. Used Jira for story-tracking and Stash for code-reviews.  - Delivered technical feature designs. Provided technical and non-technical story breakdowns   - Served as a subject matter expert on several system features from design to inception and presented them in developer community-of-practice sessions, a weekly best-practices meeting.  - Implemented feature tests following every story using Gherkin and the Specflow testing framework  - Front-end development on various web products using AngularJS as well as MVC and Silverlight applications   - Participated in coaching program, provided technical and career guidance to junior developers Sr. / Lead .Net Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL October 2012 to October 2015 • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#, ASP.NET MVC Framework 4.0  • Designed and developed Graphical user interfaces using Razor, Angular JS and C#.  • Extensively design tables in HTML for tabular display of data with Paging and Sorting for displaying various data on to the page.  • Worked with ASP.NET MVC controller, View, Model, Web Services, Angular JS to design the web pages, user controller, shared views. Implemented State Management, Caching features, Configuring optimizations and security in the web application.  • Involved in Design and Development of SOA (Service-oriented architecture) with United Airlines Architect team.  • Developed system services SOA application platform for use by all web applications utilizing WCF services and the ASP.NET provider model.  • Developed Web Services and invoking them by using XML SOAP and WSDL for creating proxy classes.  • Used Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) for communicating with other application and components.  • Extensively used technologies like AJAX to make pure javascript calls to fetch the data from SQL server, Web services.  • Effectively used Jquery a concise JavaScript Library for traversing HTML document, event handling and AJAX interactions.  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter, for consistent access to SQL data sources.  • Implement NUnit Testing, Integration Testing and Regression Testing.  • Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server for the purpose of version Control and source code maintenance needs. IT Analyst Royal Bank of Canada - Mumbai, Maharashtra February 2012 to September 2012 • Developed a high quality software model using N-Tier Architecture with Software    development life-cycle (SDLC) followed by Agile methodologies.  • Designed large numbers of Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) Forms, Custom       Controls and User Controls using XAML language for UI and Dynamic Web Parts for      personalized content which allows Change, Edit, Move the content on pages as per users'     own choice.  • Involved in developing Web Services and invoking them by using XML, SOAP and WSDL      for creating proxy classes.  • Effectively handled ASP.NET caching techniques such as page output caching and data      caching in order to improve the performance of the web application using aspx  pages.  • Used extensively Jquery and Java Script for Client Side Validations.  • Used ASP.NET AJAX Toolkit controls like Script Manager, Update Panel and Timer in     some web pages.   • Used ADO.NET objects Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter for consistent access to    data sources.  • Created SQL Server Tables and Complex Tables and Developed Stored Procedures, Views    and User-Defined Functions those are required for the application.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Modular Testing and successful integration of modules and    multiple layers in the system.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for version control of the source code along with the     maintenance of the builds and the relevant documents of the same. Software Developer Bank of America - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2009 to January 2012 • Involved in full life-cycle of the project from requirements gathering to transition using Agile        Methodology.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the       business logic using C#.NET.  • Involving in C#, ASP.NET, Windows communication foundation (WCF), SQL Server 2005,        JavaScript, JQuery , XML, XSLT and AJAX technologies development  • Designed and developed web user controls, master pages, validation controls, CSS files       using C#.NET, Jquery, XML, HTML and ASP.NET 2.0/3.5.  • Designed the web UI using ASP.NET, HTML, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, JQuery, CSS, Web Forms       and controls.  • Used extensively Data Grid, Data Set, Data Table, Data Views, Data Adapter and Data        Readers to render reports.  • Utilized Ajax Tab control, Update Panel, Script Manager, ModalPopupExtender,       MaskedEditExtender for validations.  • Used Grid View, Data List and Repeater controls with Paging and Sorting for displaying       various data on to the page  • Used ASP.NET AJAX Toolkit controls like Script Manager, Update       Panel and Modal Popup Extender within some web pages.  • Used extensively Data Caching and session management concepts to increase the       throughput of the ASP.NET Pages.  • Consumed web services and WCF services in the applications.  • Implemented several Design Patterns (Singleton, Adapater, Factory) to standardize the       application architecture.  • Written Views, User Defined Functions, Stored Procedures, and Triggers for        inserting/Updating/Deleting the data into the relational tables.  • Testing WCF & Web Service request payload in different environments  • Applied business logic on RAW XML using XSLT  • Implement NUnit Testing, Integration Testing and Regression Testing.  • Used Team Foundation Server for the purpose of version Control and source code       maintenance needs. Software Developer Raj Software Technology (India) Limited - Mumbai, Maharashtra November 2007 to June 2009 • Involved in Design, Development and Testing of Windows Forms, Web Forms and Web   • Services using IIS, ASP.NET, C#, XML Dataset and .NET Framework.  • Involved in Performance testing for different bandwidths by using the bandwidth controller.  • Involved in preparation of cascade style sheet (CSS) files.  • Involved in Code review phase.   • Developed secured web services using .Net, C#, XML/SOAP.  • Written code to access secure web service using .Net, Web form using C# and ASP.Net, WSDL, Proxy Class, XML/SOAP.  • Implemented business, database access layer classes in C# using UML class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Written SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Backup and Restore Database, Defining roles, creating database users, Assigning Roles to users using Sql Server  2000.  • Responsible to deliver the give modules without slipping the deadlines and without exceeding the estimated effort.  • Application design based on n-tier Architecture.  • Extensively involved in Stored Procedures Optimization.  • Used Innovative validation techniques for User Input Validations.  • Created Role Based security levels for Windows Forms Authorization.  • Implemented server caching techniques, state management, windows and Forms Authentication in ASP.NET.  • Involved in customizing the Windows Forms Data grid.  • Developed custom controls for Windows Forms and generating reports.  • Involved in the development of SOAP based XML Web Services like Financial account management and Purchase Orders which forms the business logic components of the  system.  • Used ADO.NET extensively to access the database.  • Prepared Test cases provided technical documentation.  • Used the N-Unit for unit testing of the classes. Software Developer My Technologies - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2007 to November 2007 • Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation, management, maintenance and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) projects.  • Business Logic analysis to produce Business Workflow Diagram, Use Cases, Architecture, Functional/Design specifications.  • Designed web forms using Visual Studio. NET, CSS, client site JavaScript code.  • Member registration, processing, and reports generation.  • Created user controls like Page Footer, Page Header, and Popup Page header & integrated them in different aspx page.  • Binding User-Interface to backend using ADO.NET technology.  • Involved in writing stored procedures and all DML using SQL 2000.  • Involved in Maintenance, testing and troubleshooting of the development server.  • Extensively used Datasets, Data Grid, Data List and Data view to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used ASP.NET Validation controls to do server-side validations and client-side validations based on the user’s browser.  • Maintain and upgrade the program during development to accommodate new specifications in the input files.  • Design user-friendly interface for easy operation of program.  • Developed resource file with static contents & integrated them in different pages. Education Master's Skills Git, Javascript, HTML 5, CSS, C#, SQL Server, Microservices, AWS, Lambda, Unit Tests, Specflow, NET Core 2.2, RabbitMQ, ElasticSearch, RabbitMQ, WCF, SOAP, Jquery