Software Development Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Lead Software Development Lead - University of California, Riverside High performance software development team leader with 10 years of success planning, implementing, and driving closed complex software  projects using varied technology stacks. Known for strong people skills, creative problem solving, exceptional technical aptitude, and  consistent quality delivery on time and within budget. Work Experience Software Development Lead University of California, Riverside - Riverside, CA May 2016 to Present Successfully delivered 10 mission-critical software application projects for coordinating internal travel requests, supply requests, digital signage, equipment requests, patron billing appeals, library storefront, and reporting / business intelligence. Applications  included role and user management integration with Active Directory, integration with external systems (Paypal, AWS, Azure), and advanced data export and reporting functionality. Applications built with .NET Framework, .NET Core, MS SQL and PHP.  • Managed the implementation of a content management system built on Drupal (PHP / MySQL). Successfully coordinated with 8  departments to collect requirements, document workflows, and build library-specific functionality using a combination of custom  code and modules and off-the-shelf software. Coordinated website administrator training in partnership with Acquia and campus  Central Computing department.  • Built custom ETL (extract, transform, load) process to automate the delivery of patron data from campus SIS (Banner) to internal  library ILMS system. Process was built with Microsoft SSIS (Integration Services) using industry standard data warehousing concepts  (facts, dimensions, cubes). System reduced the time required to import quarterly student data from days to under an hour.  • Created and implemented a set of project management and business analysis processes to streamline IT project delivery. Processes  included templates for project planning, requirements gathering, user acceptance testing, scorecards, change review, and security  assessment. Software Development Manager University of California, Riverside - Riverside, CA June 2011 to May 2016 Successfully managed the delivery of 30+ mission-critical software projects including applications for course search and schedule  creation, orientation session management, document scanning, and admission application review. All projects shipped on or ahead of schedule.  • Managed the implementation of a content management system (OmniUpdate CMS) for the campus Student Affairs division.  Successfully coordinated with over 30 departments to collect requirements and develop and deploy a standard set of responsive  website templates. CMS websites achieved 100% WCAG 2.0 accessibility scores.  • Implemented a full software deployment pipeline (development, test, and production) using industry standard continuous  integration (TeamCity) and source control (Mercurial/Kiln) software. The system enables fully automated software deployments from source control to test for user acceptance, and single click deployment to production.  • Collaborated with Information Technology Director to select and apply industry standard software processes and best practices to  align with HIPAA, FERPA, and PCI compliance requirements. Processes included code review, change review, risk assessment, version control, peer review, and project security assessment.  • Managed a team of 6 software developers responsible for maintaining in a regulated environment 90+ enterprise applications and websites developed with the Microsoft .NET platform. Technologies include C#, VB.NET, ADO.NET, ASP.NET, HTML/CSS/JavaScript  and Microsoft SQL Server. Software Developer University of California, Riverside - Riverside, CA September 2009 to June 2011 Project Lead and primary developer of the MyUCR applicant portal, using ASP.NET, jQuery, SQL Server, LINQ, and SOAP-based web  services. Refactored an existing legacy codebase to reduce page load times by over 90%.  • Spearheaded the UCR mobile app initiative. Responsible for adapting current business logic to an iPhone and Android presentation  layer using the Appcelerator framework. The resulting MyUCR Mobile application was the first UC mobile app available on iTunes.  • Project Lead on the IIS7 upgrade project. Coordinated with Infrastructure and Software Development teams to plan, design and implement a web farm hosting environment. Software Developer A-Check America, Riverside January 2008 to September 2009 Developer on the A-Check Direct client portal website using ASP.NET, C#, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL Server, and web services. Website  allows submitting and editing of domestic and international background check requests for over 5000 client users.  • Developed monitoring and logging Windows support services to analyze daily business processes and repair/report errors and exception conditions.  • Responsible for the full software development lifecycle on several concurrent projects. Gathered requirements and use cases, created functional prototypes, developed code, and provided ongoing maintenance for mission critical applications. Education A.S. in Software Engineering Westwood College January 2008 Skills Database, Database design, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Stored procedures, .net, C#, Design patterns, Git, Javascript, Angular.js, Ionic, Node.js, .net core, Razor, Wcf, Object oriented, Php Links http://MAIL.COM Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages and Frameworks  • Expert in: ASP.NET (WebForms / MVC / Razor Pages), C#, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript/jQuery, AJAX, .NET Framework, .NET Core  • Skilled in: TSQL, WCF, XML/XSLT, SharePoint, Azure, AWS, Angular.js, Node.js  • Familiar with: WPF, Python, Java, VB.NET, NoSQL (DynamoDB, MongoDB, CouchDB), PHP, MySQL, Laravel    Software  • Frameworks and Languages: C#, .NET, .NET Core, ASP.NET, Laravel, Serverless  • Platforms: AWS, Azure  • Databases: Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, DynamoDB  • Source Control: Git, Mercurial/Kiln, Team Foundation Server, Subversion, VSS  • Mobile: Ionic, Cordova/PhoneGap, Android and iPhone, Swift    Knowledge  • Requirements and Software Architecture, Project Management, Change Management, Business Analysis, Compliance (HIPAA,  FERPA, PCI), Application Security, Application Performance, Legacy Software Remodeling  • Design Patterns, Database Design and Performance Tuning, MVC Architecture, N-Tier Architecture, SOAP and REST based web  services, .NET framework and .NET Core, Stored Procedures and Triggers, Object Oriented Design, Mobile Design  • Team Management, Coaching and Mentorship, Performance Improvement and Skill Building, Training Plans and Performance  Assessment