Software Integrator <span class="hl">Software</span> Integrator Software Integrator - United States Automobile Insurance Helotes, TX Looking for Software Engineer position in San Antonio or Remote position.    •Many years' experience of analysis, design, programming distributed J2EE applications and Salesforce applications.  • Expertise on system integration, connectivity, security, ForgeRock access management, Java, REST/Soap Web Services, JMS, JRule, KSH, Pypthon  • Expertise in developing salesforce application with APEX  • Expertise on IBM WebSphere Application Server and Apache Server administration, configuration, scripting and performance tuning.  • Lead various projects, mentoring junior team member, provide best solutions to meet business requirements and timeline.  • Demonstrated experience in collaborating with cross-functional teams Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Integrator United States Automobile Insurance May 2007 to Present Lead and developed single sign on member federation services in ForgeRock Access Management.  ? Architect designed and developed various multi-tires cross domain applications: e.g. send Major incident push notification from J2EE app to USAA mobile through salesforce push notification service; CRM and Market Lead salesforce applications.  ? Developed OAuth connector utility that allows java application call salesforce REST service through USAA gateway.  ? Expert of various salesforce connectivity protocol, e.g. OAuth, SAML Single Sign On, JIT Provisioning SSO, mutual authentication etc.  ? Lead, design, and develop various USAA Member and employee authentication security J2EE projects:  • Prospect member logon authentication.  • SMS one-time code member credential recovery.  • USAA keystore management  • Employee single sign on.  • Aggregator Authentication.  ? Expert on infrastructure Java Message Service Framework (JMS). Developed and maintain USAA infrastructure message logging framework with IBM MQ.  ? Expert on IBM ILOG JRule. Leaded JRule Expedite Deployment projects, which allow business people develop, manage, and deploy business rule to production at real-time fashion. Sr. Software Consultant IBM Corp - Austin, TX July 2004 to May 2007 under EML consultant firm.    Developed and maintained IBM knowledgebase(PSDB), which is used by entire IBM AIX support team.  ? Design/implementation/maintenance of J2EE PSDB applications, their backend databases and data acquisition processes.  ? Developed server side program with JDBC, SERVLET, and JSP, XML, SQL, Stored Procedure etc.  ? Developed web logging utility with Log4j  ? Administrate UDB database, including database design, turning, data replication with MQ, backup and restore etc.  ? Designed and implemented data load programs to migrate various data sources into IBM Tech Support database. The programs were implemented with java, sql, stored procedures, triggers, Unix ksh scripts, sed and awk, Web Services etc.  ? Develop and Administrate daily data feed backend ETL batch jobs Sr. Software Developer/Data Architect RLG Inc - Mountain View, CA December 1999 to July 2004 Migrated the mainframe spires database into relational database DB2 on Unix OS, and built up a web-based multi-tier distributed J2EE search engine.  ? Designed physical database based on logical data model.  ? Designed and developed table driven java data load program, which parsed XML content, normalized data with business rules and Unicode normalization algorithms, loaded 130 million records into relational database DB2/UDB  ? Designed and developed backend program of the search engine. The search engine is J2EE application. I implemented it with java servlet, java bean, SQL, stored procedures, JDBC SQL, XML, and XSLT. Customers can not only search English but also all kinds of foreign languages. In another word, it's Unicode enabled.  ? Developed stress test program for web load generation. It automates the activity of multiple web clients and thus creates a load on the Websphere Application Server and Apache Server. LoadWidget supports persistent session, HTTP 1.0, HTTP 1.1 protocol, build-in cookie caching, full logging, request-level statistics  ? Performed UDB database installation, configuration, design, indexing, replication, reorgchk, performance turning and backup/restore tasks.  ? Performed Apache and Websphere web server installation, configuration and performance turning.  ? Implemented Unicode conversion algorithm in C to support multi-languages display and search for RLG union catalog web applications. Software Developer Atypon System Inc - Palo Alto, CA August 1999 to December 1999 ScienceLine is a revolutionary knowledge discovery and information management system. ScienceLine has a highly powerful data-mining environment complete with personal data management and project management features. I have following accomplishment in this component:  ? Design and developed front-end program with java JAVA Swing  ? Implemented backend database connectivity with RMI and ORACLE Education M.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science Central Michigan University - Mount Pleasant, MI January 1998 to June 1999 B.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science Tianjin Polytechnic Institute and University July 1986 to July 1990