Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Developer Birmingham, AL HOT SKILLS  • 23 years of experience in the IT industry with project management, software web design, database development for multiple government and commercial clients.  • Diverse facets of .NET development, encompassing analysis, design, development, and execution of business applications.  • Languages: ASP.NET, C#, C, C++, VBScript, Lotus Script, Java Script, J2EE, Java, JQuery, CSS, XML, SQL  Scripting, HTML, HTML 5 (mid-level), PHP (mid-level), ASP Classic 3, CFML Basic HTML Web Site Design, .NET Mobile Application Web Design, Visual Studio Web Design, Network Security and Authentication  Design, Client and Server Side Scripting, E-commerce Web Design, Content Management Web Design/  Maintenance, Workflow Web Design, e-commerce web design Upgrades and Maintenance, Personal  Identity Verification (PIV), Lotus Notes Domino Web Design, Photoshop Graphic design artist (Mid-  Level), IIS Web Server (up to 8), ColdFusion Designer. Mid-level experience with .NET Core Web API  Design, and .NET MVC.  • Databases: Oracle, DB2, MS Access, SQL (up to 2014), MySQL, Lotus Notes (All Versions up to 8).  • Platforms: Windows Client and Server (up to 2014), Windows NT Client and Server, UNIX (Linux, Solaris)  Server (Mid-Level), Mac OS, OS/2, OS/2 Merlin   • Currently Learning: Cloud base solutions using Azure Dev Ops. Work Experience Software Engineer The University of Alabama - CAPS - Tuscaloosa, AL March 2019 to Present Currently engaging in software development, working with all aspects of .NET C#, SQL, Schema-tron, Angular js and Angular. Writing UI and API interfaces. Sr. Software Engineer US Dept of Energy / Highland Technology Services, Inc - Birmingham, AL 2002 to November 2018 Developed web and database solutions using many industry standard technologies with roles ranging from Sr. lead developer, server administrator and project manager. Responsible for gather client requirements, technical design, project planning, documentation, implementation, testing, deployment, training and post deployment operations and maintenance for large scale client server systems that supported over fifty thousand users at the Department of Energy.      • Designed new .NET C# web applications and SQL transactional databases. Responsible for maintaining all layers from database services, database transaction quires, stored procedures, triggers and indexing.  Also engaged in modifying existing software for improvement, monitoring server log errors to improve performance and adapt system upgrades, analyzing user needs and software requirements to determine feasibility of design within time and cost constraints.  • Basic Microsoft Server Administrator responsibilities included contributing to and maintaining system security standards such as SSL certs and PIV server and user issues, monitoring TSM server backups to ensure backup integrity, performing regular security monitoring to identify any possible intrusions, and submitting security scans upon client request.  • Designed and completed a .NET C# DOE internal application that allows DOE headquartered officers to formally request and gather feedback data from hundreds of nuclear field office facility locations. The system triggers a 5-day schedule task that sends reminder email notifications to the facility sites. The feedback application was also designed to handle all mobile devices (responsive) and has heavy workflow and email notification functions. Also designed an administrative panel that allows for viewing, editing, updating, custom exporting data reports and linked into the Micro-Strategy solution.  • Designed a .NET C# application that would integrate and leverage information stored on the DOE HSPD- 12 Personal Identity Verification (PIV) badges. This process was setup primarily for global user  authentication, for DOE internal users. Also implemented a 3-party software called CoreStree that interfaces with the PIV process. Implemented CoreStreet so it would communicate with offsite remote servers to cross-reference pre-approved government PIV badges. Also implemented and configured network security features such as firewall rules, SSL, TSL settings.  • Designed a Re-Captcha function which forces users to enter a security code before form submissions.  The form is used throughout the Department of Energy platform for an extended level of form level cyber security measures.  • Team leader responsible for writing the Certified and Accreted documentation template for the Electronic Voluntary Protection Program (e-VPP) and for the all the department's internal applications.  • Assisted in writing the Certified and Accreted documentation for the EnCoRe system and implemented new security upgrades from the findings of the Plan of Action and Milestones (POAM) results.  • Designed a new Search Engine interface for the Department of Energy called EnCoRe. The interface function is technically referred to as a search engine that uses .NET VBScript, C#, Java Script, HTML and C# on the frontend. Oracle was used for the backend database technology. Wrote stored procedures and trigger scripts for the Department of Defense that extracts tab delaminated/CSV data. This data is then into a SQL database. Also designed scheduled scripts to run SQL monthly/daily database task.  The monthly task dumped a new set of records from the Department of Defense to the Department of Energy environment.  • Following the implementation of the EnCoRe system, the Small Business Contacts database was upgraded to search the EnCoRe database for Small Business contacts. Designed a very unique search engine using .NET C# that would pull specific records related to (manually entered) DUNS numbers from Oracle to Lotus Notes. Lotus Notes was used for the database technology and Domino Enterprise  Connectivity Services was used to integrate the data flow between Lotus Notes and Oracle. Designed  VB scripts that were scheduled to pull other agency Oracle data and runs on a nightly task and pulls all table data from the Department of Defense.  • Designed an electronic, secure, web-based system that allowed all DOE facilities to record and report safety issues in the field. The system automates the application process to minimize manual labor by contractors, Field Office, and Headquarters Program personal. Acted as project manager and lead developer. Technologies used are ASP3, ASP Script, HTML/DHTML, JavaScript and Oracle 9i.  • Installed the 3 party Content Management System on 3 different Microsoft servers. Designed and implemented a global architecture that allows synchronizations from development, staging and promotion to production. Also solely responsible forms to meet departmental customization using .NET C# and SQL database.  • Lead developer and Server Administrator: Assisted in migrating multiple 2003 MS servers to MS 2012  Lead project manager and developer, converted/re-designed over 30 forms and applications using .NET  C# and SQL database. Senior Software Developer / Project Manager Venture Technologies 2000 to 2002 Project Manager and Developer for an ASP3 Document Management System designed to allow creation of online index forms with custom index fields for uploading scanned images. The system uses Visual  Basic, VB Script, HTML/DHTML, and JavaScript. This system was rolled out to more than 1500 insurance agencies in Florida.  • Project Manager and Lead Developer for the Texas Department of Criminal Justice OIMS Offline application, allowing users statewide to selectively download offender information to laptops and work with the data offline. Designed, coded and managed the following areas: Approach Documents,  Architecture Documents, Functional Design Documents, Use Cases, Error Handling, Break Testing, Test    Scripts and OR Mapping from SQL to DECS.  • Project Manager and Lead Developer of the Horne CPA Group Intranet developed using Lotus Notes R5  Domino. The Intranet capability allows the Horne CPA Group to provide a wide variety of resources and information to its 10 locations across the country. The application includes approval flow, Knowledge  Management and content management, and a workflow providing easy web page content updates.  • Project Manager and Lead Developer for Kroger foods to provide the capability for the client to automate the process of estimating the number of hours it would require to completely stock a retail store. The system data is collected using SQL in sync with Lotus Script, converted to HTML and displayed on the web for reporting.  • Designed and implemented an Internet/Intranet application allowing designated users to add, change and manage content dynamically. The system also facilitated the publishing of web content through established approval cycles.    More experience details available upon request Education Continuing Education in .NET #C classes Learning Tree - Atlanta, GA 2014 Bachelor's in Electronics Engineering/Computer Design UNC-Charlotte - Charlotte, NC 1986 to 1989 A.A.S. in Electronics Engineering Lenoir Community College - Kinston, NC 1984 to 1986 Skills C# (3 years), SQL and Server (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), ASP (10+ years), .NET Forms (5 years), .NET Core (2 years), .NET MVC (2 years), Angular (Less than 1 year), Schematron validation (Less than 1 year), Lotus Notes and Domino (10+ years), IIS Web Server (10+ years), jQuery, HTML 5, Git, Sourcetree Awards IBM employee of the year 1996 IBM employee of the year within his department and was promoted to the Lotus Notes development team. Software Development Innovation award 2006 Software Development Innovation award at the Annual DOE Voluntary Protection Program Conference (first contractor to ever receive this award). Employee of the Year 2007 Highland Technologies - Employee of the Year. Excellent Customer Service award 2008 Highland Technologies - Excellent Customer Service award Excellent Customer Service award. 2010 Highland Technologies - Excellent Customer Service award. 15-year Excellent Customer Service award. 2017 Highland Technologies - 15-year Excellent Customer Service award. • 2001 Nominated for a World Global Innovation award 2001 Nominated for a World Global Lotusphere Software Innovation award at the Lotus Sphere Conference event Designed a unique Domino Content Management web and database application tool for a large lawyer firm.