Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - Trionfo, Inc Mokena, IL Seeking Direct-Hire opportunity for Software Architect, Data Architect, or Team Lead role in CHICAGO, IL (60-mile Radius), or Remote / Telecommute acceptable.  Will not accept Relocation or Long Term out of town.    SEEKING: Direct-Hire opportunity for Software Architect, Data Architect, or Team Lead role.    WHY YOU SHOULD GO WITH ME: I'll enable you to increase the bottom line and improve customer service, leveraging technologies such as ASP.NET / C# / SQL Server / Data Analytics, AI / Machine Learning, and Cloud-Based platforms. By collaborating with the business sponsors, understanding our end users' needs, and encouraging and mentoring the analysts and developers on my team to contribute, we can design, build, and deploy exciting new capabilities. As Michael Jordan once said, "Talent wins games, but teamwork and intelligence win championships". Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Trionfo, Inc - Itasca, IL June 2019 to Present Worked on EDI 834 format integrations, and implementing two REST GET and POST web services. Also:    • Wrote technical specification documents for the two REST services.  • Created Unit Test Platform for unit and integration tests.  • Authored knowledgebase articles on issues to assist in future problem resolutions.  • Collaborated with a variety of team members.  Environment: Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows 10, SQL Server 2016, Visual Studio 2019, C#. Sr. Software Developer Curo Financial Technologies - Chicago, IL February 2016 to January 2019 Worked on various projects for Curo's variety of brands (Speedy / Rapid Cash, LendDirect, Avio, etc.), based on their enterprise architecture, including:    • Update / rewrite various Windows Forms applications for bug fixes and feature enhancements.  • Update various ASP.NET applications for bug fixes and feature enhancements.  • Supported various batch processes, including ACH Send / Receive for Wells Fargo and RBC, Health Checks, etc.  • Implemented Experian / Veritec data feeds for credit scoring decisions using FTPS / XML / REST.  • Supported customized front-ends to DocuWare document management platform.  • Authored knowledgebase articles on many issues to assist in future problem resolutions.  • Created Unit Test Platform for unit and integration tests,  • Mentored and collaborated with a variety of team members.  Environment: Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows 10, SQL Server 2016, Visual Studio 2017, C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, MVC, .NET Core 2.2, JAMS Batch Scheduler v6.1. Application Architect / Project Leader / Sr. Consultant / Sr. Software Developer Aon Insurance March 1987 to February 2016 Provided custom software development for web-based and internal projects for a variety of firms, including:    • Aon Insurance • JPower Group • Bridgestone / Firestone  • General Electric Capital • FTI Consulting • PWC/Price Waterhouse  • Chapman and Cutler • Ernst & Young • Grant Thornton  • Motorola • First Chicago/Chase • Wm. Wrigley/Mars    Accomplishments:  • Created design for new database schema to handle multiple legal entities and profit centers for ERP System using SQL Azure, and ETL data conversion to facility migration to new system.  • Created Scribe Insight packages and SQL Server Stored Procedures to accomplish data import mappings into new customized Dynamics CRM system.  • Transitioned multiple firms into Dynamics CRM Online from various custom legacy databases.  • Created data structures to support accounting rollups supporting generation of Balance Sheet and Income Statement and Sources and Uses of Cash financial statements with user selection of operating entity, profit center and date range from data in Dynamics GP using SQL Server 2008 R2 and SSRS.  • Created Emergency Medical Data Collection and Reporting system to collect data from individual EMS vehicle trips, transmit XML documents via WCF services over mobile connection to server using Silverlight front end and Windows Server 2012 / SQL Server 2012 and IIS.  • Worked on project to integrate Dynamics GP and ADP Payroll using Microsoft Dynamics GP v10 and v2010, and SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server 2008 R2 with T-SQL, and as SME answered specific team questions regarding GP data structures and processes, including differences between versions.  • Created Workflow Management and Reporting System for Development/Construction and Legal areas, wrote the ETL data cleansing and data de-duplication logic to combine multiple distributed databases, and created the integrated workflow covering both areas so that due dates are automatically calculated and reported when a given task is either due shortly or is overdue.  • For a major league sports franchise in Chicago, IL, imported ticket refund transactions into Dynamics GP v10 Accounts Payable module.  • Created system used by the Monsanto Corporation to track Seed Sales at multiple levels including district, state, region and national levels, including visual dashboard to show seed sales trends over time, and included Excel export feature using SQL Server and Excel.  • Created Work Order Billing and Warehouse Management System that included import routine to capture service orders, mobile project tracking entry system via Blackberry, iPhone and Android devices, and dispatcher's dashboard showing real-time work order status.  • Built "LeadValuator" (TM) Financial Cash Flow Calculation and CRM System to handle the structured settlements business, including cash flow generation and reporting.  • Built Online Sales Quoting and Ordering System for metals distribution firm.  • Created workflow tracking system for major manufacturer to minimize time-to-market by identifying and remediating roadblocks.  • Created Contracting-Out tracking system for a major steel manufacturer's Labor Relations dept.  • Created Quantitative Financial Tax-Loss Carry-Forwards Calculations software for a major accounting firm.    • Customized various HR systems for various organizations.  • Integrated various specialized technical equipment into comprehensive custom software, including General Instruments fiber optic testing equipment, Deweytron Automotive Brake Testing equipment, Industrial Incineration data collection units, RFID and Bar Code readers, etc. Education Bachelor of Science in Economics Grinnell College - Grinnell, IA Skills Ado, Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Odbc, Sql, .net, Visual studio, C#, Git, Json, Mapinfo, .net core, Wcf, Software development, Vb.net, Vba, Xml, Dynamics, Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nealmiller/ Additional Information SKILLS INVENTORY:  • Software Development: C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net, .NET Core 2.2, Framework v4.7.2, Visual Studio 2017, Microsoft TFS (DevOps) and Release Manager, Git, JSON / XML / WCF / REST Web Services, Agile/Scrum.  • Database: MS SQL Server 2017, SQL Azure, MySQL, Citrix  • Applications: Dynamics CRM, Dynamics GP, Epicor v10.  • Cloud: Office 365 / SharePoint Online / Dynamics CRM Online / Microsoft Azure.  • ETL: SSIS / C# / VBA / Scribe Insight Workbench from ScribeSoft.  • Business intelligence and Reporting: SSAS / SSRS / Crystal Reports / MapInfo GIS.  • Productivity: MS Office (including x64 versions), and Office 365, including Access / Excel / Outlook / PowerPoint, using advanced VBA / DAO / ADO / ODBC / COM / Active-X (including x64).