Software Development Manager <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Manager Software Development Manager - Nuance Communications San Diego, CA Development manager with 3 years of management and 15 years of full stack development experience specializing in UI and UX design of complex applications for e-commerce and defense industries. Work Experience Software Development Manager Nuance Communications 2015 to Present Product Owner for a Software as a Service management portal to some of the world's largest e-commerce companies such as AT&T, Bank of America, and Comcast. The portal configures the omni-channel customer engagement solution powered by AI and includes a rich business rule engine. The portal enables complex reporting on various aspects of the engagements by interfacing with Hadoop and Solr. Tech stack is Angular and Java REST API with microservices.  - Lead the team in all areas including Scrum (standup, planning, retrospective), architecture, code review, maintenance, performance, security (PCI, pen test, scans), risk analysis, documentation, operations, project management and product management of features.  - Manage 7 direct report developers that includes off-shore members, while overseeing 6 quality assurance and 2 test automation members. Responsible for hiring both on-site and off-shore members.  - Deliver features consistently on time by identifying critical path decisions, engaging with stakeholders relentlessly, and making pragmatic decisions to maximize project payback.  - Retain 100% SLA defect fix rate by utilizing Agile methodologies and maintaining CI / CD pipeline. Senior Software Developer TouchCommerce 2012 to 2015 Led development effort to overhaul antiquated developer-centric portal application to a new user-centric UI using clean design and flexible UI library. Enforced consistent UI and UX by working closely with UI designer using GWT.  - Increased UI test coverage by 50% by establishing and enforcing development patterns like MVP, JSR 303, Editor which also standardized and simplified development effort.  - Architected main extensible components to enforce consistent layout and UX.  - Designed and developed the most complex and most used mission-critical features. Senior Software Application Developer Teradata 2010 to 2012 Designed and developed visual SQL builder to simplify building complex queries for data warehouses using GWT. Software Engineer SAIC 2009 to 2010 Designed and developed complex key management web application using GWT. Software Engineer Dragon Research & Engineering 2007 to 2009 Transformed complex thick client to web 2.0 app in 3 months to simplify and widen distribution of application. Software Engineer Vestacare 2006 to 2007 Software Engineer BAE Systems 2001 to 2006 Education B.S. in Computer Science University of California - San Diego, CA Skills Java (10+ years), MVC (10+ years), Software Development (10+ years), Javascript (2 years), Management (3 years), User Interface Design (10+ years), User Experience Design (10+ years), Application Development (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Project Management (5 years), Product Management (5 years), Agile (5 years), Git (5 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/howard-yeh-4064662