Sr. Software Developer & Game Designer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; Game Designer Sr. Software Developer & Game Designer Greenfield, IN Work Experience Sr. Software Developer & Game Designer Bottom-Line Performance - New Palestine, IN January 2018 to July 2019 Primary Developer for web-based eLearning applications and tools.  ? Mainly front-end development using HTML/CSS/JS including jQuery.  ? Responsible for the UI/UX of desktop and mobile solutions.  ? Some back-end development leveraging node.js and AWS.  ? Led an internal Engagement Initiative called BLP Connects that aimed to provide  co-workers with engaging health- and team-related opportunities. This included a custom Recognition App that allowed team members to publicly or privately send  messages of recognition. Sr. Multimedia Developer August 2013 to December 2017 Primary Developer for game-based eLearning applications  ? Uses a combination of client- and server-side programming to create robust  applications for desktop and mobile delivery  ? Heavy involvement in UI/UX design of solutions  ? Project Manager of a major SaaS product, Knowledge Guru Drive  ? Offers graphic and animation support as needed Multimedia Developer January 2013 to August 2013 Utilized authoring tools such as Lectora and Storyline while working on a team to create educational materials, usually web-based  ? Used Adobe suite to create graphics and animations for courses Graphics Developer IU Health Learning Solutions - Indianapolis, IN October 2011 to August 2012 Worked with a small team of developers and designers to design and program  interactive educational applications for clinical staff, non-clinical staff, and patients.  ? Mostly utilized Flash and Javascript Flash Developer Skills, Inc - Indianapolis, IN 2010 to 2011 2012-2013)  ? Illustrated and animated Flash graphics in eLearning applications  ? Programmed various Actionscript-based activities for eLearning courses to create a more immersive and engaging experience Flash Developer Oxygen Education, LLC - Indianapolis, IN September 2007 to June 2010 Worked with a team of developers and instructional writers to create interactive  Flash-based eLearning applications.  ? Lead developer for foreign language translations of eLearning applications. Education BS in Media Arts and Science in WORK SAMPLES IUPUI, School of Informatics - Indianapolis, IN Skills Ux design, Game design, Coldfusion, Css, Html, Node.js, jquery, Flash, Ui, Ux, Sql, After effects Links https://www.coreyscallahan.com Additional Information SKILLSET  CORE PROFICIENCES  ? Web development (HTML/CSS/JS)  ? Game Design  ? Server-side Programming (Adobe ColdFusion/SQL, node.js)  ? UI/UX Design  ? Authoring Tools (Construct, Lectora, Storyline)  ? Motion Graphics(After Effects, Flash/Animate)  ? Adobe Suite  PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES  ? HTML/CSS/JS (including libraries such as jQuery and node.js)  ? ColdFusion/SQL