Sr. Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Developer Oceanside, NY Experienced professional with extensive Mathematical/Physics background and strong analytical skills. Years of practical expertise in system analysis, design, development and maintenance of software in financial and health industries. Capable of using contemporary computer programming tools and techniques to find optimal algorithms and solutions. Work Experience Sr. Developer EC Infosystems - Uniondale, NY September 2015 to May 2019 Development, program support, maintenance of the UtiliBill - fully EDI-integrated Billing/CIS  platform - the most widely implemented solution in the deregulated energy market  • Program analysis for operative detection, location and elimination code and data errors.  Utilized: OOP with VB.NET, SQL Server, Crystal Reports  • Extend the existing UtiliBill functionality by deriving new classes and SQL Server objects to satisfy variety client's requests.  • Create new Web forms and reports, using Crystal Reports and SSRS. Sr. Software Developer Multi Functional Websites - New York, NY January 2013 to August 2015 Design, development, maintenance and support WEB application for medical offices.  Accomplishments:  • Created ASP.NET/ C#/VB.NET, MVC "Web Self Appointment" Client/Server application  for various medical practices. Support and maintenance of the customer web site.  • Design and development WCF architecture for the multi offices application.  • Design SOAP and REST web services for Mobile cross platform clients with SQL server.  • Design and development GUI for clients applications using WinForms and WPF. Software Developer Pay-O-Matic Corp - Syosset, NY April 2010 to December 2012 Design, development and maintenance of the company's proprietary software for control and management financial network.  Utilized: C#/VB.NET, SQL Server, ASP.NET, WCF, VB6, WPF  Accomplishments:  • Design and implementation Client/Server application based on WCF architecture and GUI  • Design and development the series of the applications on socket based network for optimization and control financial activities.  • Multithreading optimization of network communication processes.  • GUI (Win Forms, WPF) for the transaction and creating Crystal reports, GDI+  • Converting VB6 applications in ASP.NET and their further maintenance and modifications. Software Developer Pax Clearing LP - New York, NY January 2007 to April 2010 Utilized: C#/VB.NET, SQL Server, MS Access, ASP.NET, Sterling ActiveX API  Accomplishments:  • Design and development the trading applications based on Sterling ActiveX API.  Applications include GUI with ability to get real time quotations, analysis of profits and losses information from the Sterling Trader Pro platform, and fast order entry, that allows instantaneous action against any change-of-market conditions.  • Performing the analysis and application of the optimization methods for different models of the trading process.  • Developing various GUI forms for "Trader - Computer" system. Senior Programmer Analyst MSKCC, Department of Medical Physics, Computer Services - New York, NY December 2003 to December 2006 Development, support and maintenance of software for Dose Calculation and Optimization in Radiation Therapy Treatment Planning System.  Utilized: C++, C#/VB.NET, Sybase, GTK, OpenGL, Delphi/Pascal  Accomplishments:  • Design, coding and implementation of ergonomic GUI for Treatment Planning System using  VS.NET2005, MS Access DB, and 3D Graphical Visualization Packages GTK and OpenGL  • Implementing new optimization methods based on Genetic Algorithm and integrating them into new and existing clinical applications. Application was developed in VB6 and Fortran.  • Providing support and troubleshooting clinical software for Brachy Treatment Planning Team.  • Modifying and creating new GUI interfaces and integrating them with existing and new applications. Education MS in Physics and Mathematics in Physics and Mathematics State University Skills Ms visual studio, Visual studio, C#, C++, Html, Wcf, Vb.net, Vb6, Xml, Ado, Dbms, Ms access, Ado.net, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Sybase, Asp, Iis, Asp.net