Principal Software Engineer Principal <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Principal Software Engineer - Ooma Inc Santa Clara, CA I'm a hands-on, fearless, result oriented, A team player with can do attitude, problem solver generalist software engineer working in media streaming, embedded system, mobile app, backend service and cloud. I survived from a startup, experienced the sweetness of IPO, been there and love it. I'd love to contribute in startup environment. I want to help you build your startup, your app and help you make you rich. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Principal Software Engineer Ooma Inc Present Design and development of new microservices for integration with partner API such as Arlo and Nest.  Ooma is partnering with other company to provide integration with ooma's mobile app and ooma phone call feature.    Technology: Objective-C, IOS, Nodejs, Git, Docker, AWS SQS  OS: IOS, Linux, Mongodb, mysql  • Design and development of Geo Fencing with GPS and iBeacon on IOS    Techonology: Objective-C, CoreLocation, Bluetooth  OS: IOS    • Design and development of Sensor Simulators.  Create sensor simulator for Ooma Iot's controller for testing. The simulator is run as a micro service and provide API for test script.    Techonology: C lang, Nodejs, TCP/IP, HTML  OS: Linux, mongodb    • Research in new product and create quick prototype and proof of concept.  Develop a prototype to capture video from off the shelf camera when one of the sensor got event and Upload the video to AWS S3 and Dropbox.    Technology: Golang, Nodejs, FFMPEG, AWS, Kafka, Objective-C  OS: Linux, Embedded Linux, IOS,    • Develop a prototype for Image recognition from Captured Video.    Technology: Golang, FFMPEG, OpenCV, Kafka, AWS rekognition  OS: Linux, Embedded Linux. Senior Software Developer Ooma Inc 2012 to 2016 Design and develop Ooma's IOS Mobile app for Home and Business.    Technology: Objective-C, XCode, SIP, RTP, RTCP, Codec  OS: iPhone IOS, MacOS  • Debug and post mortem debug and troubleshoot Mobile app errors, call quality and performance.  • Release Mobile App to App Store.  • Create microservice to store our mobile logs in elastic search. NTT Multimedia Communications Inc 2008 to 2012 • Research and development of traffic offloading in VoIP call.  • Research and development in OpenFlow switch for traffic offloading.  Technology: C/C++, Embedded Linux, OpenFlow switch.    • Development of VoIP mobile app for IOS and VoIP Mobile client for Windows. Freelance SIP, RTP, RTCP 2007 to 2008 • Develop VoIP Mobile Client on Windows.  • Develop Windows Driver for G.729 Codec based on Intel IPP Codec. Rekasel Internusa 2004 to 2007 Design and development Mobile client app on windows  Technology: C/C++, Windows, MFC.  • Develop Call Center and IVR (Interactive Voice Response) server  Technology: C/C++, Windows Server, Dialogic Board, H323, RTP, VoIP. Education Bachelor Degree In Computer Science in Computer Science University Budi Luhur - Jakarta, ID 2004 Skills Ios, Objective-c, C/c++, C++, Docker, MYSQL, Git