Software Tools Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> Tools <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Tools Developer - INTEL Coopersburg, PA Work Experience Software Tools Developer INTEL - Allentown, PA 2018 to Present Develop Tools to assist in supporting High-Performance-Computing/HPC networks.  • Wrote a Tkinter/Pandas python script to analyze cable metrics, allowing a user to plot cable data over time. Utilized Cx_Freeze to bundle Python and modules so that a user doesn't have to install Python.  • Prototyped and coded a visual basic program to summarize SharePoint usage counters. Created pivot tables and charts to visualize high traffic areas to allow Intel to create shortcuts.  • Automated Black Duck legal compliance code scans by creating Windows/DOS/Powershell batch scripts.  • Performed Gerrit code reviews of other developer's Python code.  • Prototyped a jQuery/DataTables app to allow a user to filter data by vendor. Based upon a user's selection in a list, it would hide/show appropriate vendor cables.  • Created a Perl program to show calendar months prefaced with work week numbers, since Intel uses this for various reports. Systems Developer ANDESA SERVICES - Allentown, PA 2017 to 2018 for an Insurance Company  Customized Pascal/bash programs.  • Developed MoveIt jobs to transfer files between Linux and Windows platforms. Software Development Engineer NOKIA - Coopersburg, PA 2000 to 2017 Developed applications for telecommunications industry, mostly LDAP, to update voicemail mailboxes. Created scripts that updated over 150M mailboxes worldwide and were designed to work outside of maintenance window to finish quicker. Developed application to summarize call information, storing results in MySQL database. Developed VBA macros for other internal needs.  • Designed and coded Perl application to get and process Call-Detail-Records (CDR) from over 120 systems, summarizing call statistics in MySQL database.  • Wrote Perl utility script to install contents of supplied tar archive file, allowing for backing up of files contained in file prior to extracting which became standard patch utility.  • Engineered multi-threaded Java application which communicated with mailbox server by LDAP to get subscriber's spoken language.  • Developed Java application to use a basic SQL command to query/update mailboxes. Developed for system migration to allow subscribers to temporarily listen to old voice messages. Over 7 million mailboxes were updated unattended and the program is still in use.  • Created several Microsoft Word/Excel macros (VBA) for internal use. One validated Word document, then updated Excel spreadsheet, eliminating user input errors. Another compared Excel workbooks and reported differences. Another input CSV runtime statistics and stored them in Excel spreadsheet to be summarized and emailed to client, showing progress.  • Wrote Perl script to build/change (voicemail) mailboxes on message server(CMS). Execution speed of script could be throttled based upon time of day, allowing it to run outside of maintenance window to increase throughput. Wrote similar C program to build/change (voicemail) mailboxes on older Sierra/CA system. Tools touched over 150+M mailboxes.  • Expanded reach to all AT&T's 80M+ mailboxes located on over 120 servers, writing Perl application to batch process LDAP changes. Maintained "X" LDAP jobs running per system, enabling Nokia to queue work, instead of constantly monitoring and manually starting jobs to meet deadline with time to spare.  • Wrote C program to update mailboxes via OCL (older protocol). Augmented my original program to update bulletin mailboxes to basically set the value in the next empty bulletin mailbox.  • Enhanced a C++ program which processed XML events to support format changes.  • Improved a C LDAP program to allow it to talk to multiple LDAP servers. Education Bachelor of Science in (BS), Computer Science/Math (double Moravian College - Bethlehem, PA Skills C++, CLIENT/SERVER, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, OBJECT-ORIENTED, PASCAL, PERL, PHP, PYTHON, SVN, VISUAL BASIC, XML, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, JAVA, jQuery, LDAP, TCP, APACHE Links http://linkedin.com/in/david-l-koch