Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - FSSI- Financial Statement Services, Inc Work Experience Senior Software Engineer FSSI- Financial Statement Services, Inc 2006 to Present Custom document composition and printing bank statements, letters, utility bills, car loans, insurance, notices using C#.  ? Working with pdf, flat files, fixed length, csv, tab delimited and database data to produce PDF or PostScript output.  ? Custom logic for E-Statement output as well as xml to produce E-Notification.  ? Implementation of IMB barcode for mailed pieces using updated addresses from CASS or NCOA(verimove) postal requirements.  ? Toll Road billing and invoicing with transactional data and itemized ticket information.  ? Proprietary development - Application design, implementation, maintenance and testing.  * Client controlled letter management and variable data printing.  * Mail piece tracking system integrated with accounting system  * Delivery tracking- scanning in-transit/delivered mail with e-signature.  * Certified Reporting Tool using API to collect data and report acceptance, e-signature and proof of delivery Programmer / Software Developer II MOORE STEPHENS, P.C 2002 to 2006 Customization of accounting software (Platinum, Peachtree, Great Plains) using Visual Studio.Net (C#) and Delphi.  ? Full Software Development Life Cycle, Application design, implementation, maintenance and testing.  ? Importing and exporting data to/from databases (Access, SQL, ORACLE). Custom management and production reporting. Customization of Visual Practice Management System. Implementation of secure signature check printing, and barcode printing.  ? Implementation of web interface ordering systems. Extensive work with web applications. Programming websites that accept web orders into a database and then integrates them into accounting software using a desktop application.  ? Implementation of web services that access Oracle and returns values from a query based on given parameters. Read and write XML.  ? Website Development: Design layouts, focusing on site development, web graphics and logo design. Implementation of shopping cart services and online forums with secure database services and user logins and passwords through Microsoft Access/SQL/ORACLE. Enhanced Internet sales through corporate website. Project Manager and IIS Specialist. Education BS in Computer Science in Computer Science Monmouth University Webmaster Web Design I & II Rutgers University Skills .NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, C++ Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Programming Languages:  C#, MVC, backbone, jQuery, .Net, ASP.Net, Java, Python, JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS, SQL (Stored Procedures, Views), Web Services, ODBC, MS .Net Framework, C++, Delphi  Databases:  SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008, 2005, ORACLE (9i, 10g), Btrieve  Development Tools:  Microsoft Visual Studio (2017, 2015, 2012, 2008, 2005, 2003), Dialogue 16, XMPie, WordPress, Adobe Photoshop, InDesign, Flash, Dreamweaver, Miva Merchant  Administrative Applications:  MS Internet Information Services (IIS5 and IIS6) Management, ODBC Data Sources, Visual Practice Management Systems  Source Control:  Git