Job Seeker Principal Consultant Looking for onsite opportunity New York, NY I have strong programming and Implementation experience while working in the following:    ? I have 12+ years of experience in Application Software Development in .Net Framework 2.0, 3.5, 4.0, ASP.Net, C#.Net, Visual Studio 2005,2008,2010,2012,2017 Web Services, WCF, LINQ, AJAX, XML, Angular1, Angular2/4/7/8, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, DHTML, Telerik Controls and SQL Server 2005,2008, Microsoft Enterprise Library, IBM Rational Synergy, Visual source safe, Team Foundation Server, Microsoft Visio 2010, Windows Services, Interwoven (Content Management Tool), Façade, Singleton Design Pattern, Knowledge of Flex, Silverlight and MCTS certified in Web Applications.  ? Good exposure in planning and executing all phases of software life cycle starting with requirement study, analysis, design, development, testing, implementation and maintenance.  ? Involved in design and development of software applications on Microsoft platform.  ? Helped team members for technical issues in ASP.Net, .Net Framework 2.0,3.5,4.0, C#.Net, Angular JS, JavaScript, JQuery, SQL, LINQ, making secure Web services and developing Log files.  ? Handled application deployment on Test server, UAT Server, Production Server and Disaster Recovery Server.  ? Analyze client requirements and suggest the solution.  ? Involved in requirement gathering from client on conference calls.  ? Create Program Specifications and Unit Test Plans.  ? Support application's end users for their queries those are related to technical or functional.  ? Help in building Design Pattern  ? Currently leading a team of ten developers. Work Experience Morgan Stanley April 2011 to Present Brief  ClientServ is a client facing application for Wealth Management clients. The clients logging in site can see and analyze his portfolio. The user can place orders for Stocks, Options etc. which further goes to Order Management system. Users can access various periodic and analysis reports and download Tax related documents.  There are other features in site to Pay Bills online and Move money from one account to another (Internal or External). These all are implemented in integration with third party. For e.g.  With the integration, the application is enhanced to handle 4X user load with 1M users of MS and 3M new users of SB joining in. The platform is expected to server the 280% increase in accounts and 320% increase in volume of trades.  Being on Internet rather than intranet (which most applications are) this site has its own security requirements. It has a very secure Login mechanism supported by RSA which analyzes each user logging in and send the risk score according to which application changes behavior. All the data communicated to any third party uses a secure token called SAML in which data is Encoded, encrypted, signed with certificates and sent over secure channel.  Third Party Integrations  1. Fiserv CheckFree -Bills Payment  2. TCS Bancs - Money Movement  3. Thomson Reuters - Market Data    Technology  ASP.Net, C#.Net, Angular JS, Angular 2/4/6/8, SQL Server 2005, IIS 7.0, MVC, Web service, WCF, Window Service, Third party vendor(CheckFree, TCS Bancs, Thomson Reuters), IBM Rational Synergy    Team Size 16  Role Lead and Developer  Key Responsibilities and Achievements  ? Involve in coding, testing debugging, implementing and deployment the system.  ? Involved in Deployment on Test, UAT, production and disaster recovery system.  ? Involved in preparation of Architectural diagram, Context Diagram, MOMs, SRS review, High Level Design document, User Manual.  ? Involve in all the process.  ? Involve in peer reviews.    Project 2 (Product)  Project Name eLien Document Recording application Principal Consultant Genpact Headstrong Capital Markets February 2011 to Present JP Morgan Chase Bank April 2010 to Present Brief  The eLien document recording Web application allows bank to automate the electronic processing and tracking of reconveyance documents.  The purpose of this project is to maintain the source data (from Chase) and the downstream data from counties and third party vendors (electronic document recording services such as Simplifile and Ingeo). The system will track every stage of the document/submission process and report the status. The status will flow into the system from the routine document processing interactions of the third party vendor applications. Other features of the application include a Search function and tracking Document Comments and County Response Time.    Technology  ASP.Net, C#.Net, Flex, SQL Server 2005, IIS 7.0, Action Script, Web service, Window Service, Third party vendor(Simplifile, Ingeo), Microsoft Visio 2010, VS Team Explorer 2008, Snowbound, Windows server 2003, 2008.    Team Size 10  Role Lead and Developer  Key Responsibilities and Achievements  ? Involve in coding, testing debugging, implementing and deployment the system.  ? Involved in Deployment on Test, UAT, production and disaster recovery system.  ? Involved in preparation of Architectural diagram, Context Diagram, MOMs, SRS review, High Level Design document, User Manual.  ? Involve in all the process.  ? Involve in peer reviews.    Project 3  Project Name Blue Parasol Property Senior Software Engineer NeuroNimbus S/W Services (P) Ltd - New Delhi, Delhi March 2010 to February 2011 with UST- Global (from March 2010 - Feb 2011)  ? Worked as an ASP.Net Developer with NeuroNimbus S/W Services (P) Ltd. New Delhi (from Dec. 2008 - March 2010). Developer Blue Parasol Inc October 2009 to February 2010 UK  Brief  Blue Parasol property is a portal to design to perfection for the land owners who wants to give their Land , Villas , Bungalows ,Houses , Apartment ,Guest house and a land for rent with amenities to all the tourists , visitors , philosophers and any one who wants to stay some time and wants to discover nature of that particular place. All the information regarding above stated will be provided in that portal. All these information can easily accessible to user & the Managing their property is done by the particular owner of that property. The security , Easily manageable , summarize way of showing information about property , managing images , State of property through google map ,rental price description, advance search ,Show booking status using calendar are the key features of that portal    Technology ASP.Net with C#.Net, SQL Server 2005, IIS 6.0,Visual Source Safe 6.0, Linq, DHTML ,HTML, JavaScript, Team Size 5  Role Developer.  Key Responsibilities and Achievements  ? Involved in preparation of Program Specification and Unit Test Plans.  ? Wrote Linq Queries & help others to make them understand.  ? Involve in coding, testing debugging, implementing and deployment the system.  ? Involve in peer reviews.  ? Client interaction and take important suggestion from client    Project 4 London Hotel Room Bookings August 2009 to October 2009 Client Western Ticket ,Norway  Brief  The London Hotel Room Booking is specially centralized for Hotel room booking with Special Offer, Desired hotel with special features, branded hotels, Top hotel of the week and Top guest rated. This system is providing for fully automatic system to book Hotels in any where in the world. Searching, Booking and Cancellation with ease to facilitate user. The order tracking system is controlled by the admin and the Role based security provide for subordinates to help admin to give best services. Some key feature like Top guest rated , Branded hotels , Manipulating search using star rating are handled at the admin hand. The booking on the security layer give this system to best perform in vulnerable environment.    Technology ASP.Net with C#.Net, SQL Server 2005, IIS 6.0, Web services(GTA ,Travco), Visual Source Safe 6.0. DHTML ,HTML, JavaScript  Web Services GTA , TRAVCO  Team Size 5  Role Developer.  Key Responsibilities and Achievements  ? Involved in preparation of Program Specification and Unit Test Plans.  ? Wrote SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  ? Involve in coding, testing debugging, and implementing the system.    Project 5  Project Name Big Dogs Developer Visusllc ,California (USA) March 2009 to August 2009 Brief  The current website uses a hybrid of two older technologies which greatly limit flexibility for improvements, the addition of new features, and updates to the code. The goal of the proposed website revamp is to update the technology used by the website to allow for better and faster access via an updated look and feel. The new core foundation of the site will allow better flexibility for future modules such as up-selling, and gift recommendations. It will also provide for easier and more cost effective maintenance and updates to the site. The update will also allow leveraging modern technologies such as Ajax and dynamic client behavior & .net framework 3.5.    Technology ASP.Net with C#.Net, SQL Server 2005,IIS 6.0,Visual Source Safe 6.0. DHTML ,HTML, JavaScript, AJAX.  Team Size 8  Role Developer.  Key Responsibilities and Achievements  ? Involved in preparation of Program Specification and Unit Test Plans.  ? Wrote SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  ? Involve in coding, testing debugging, and implementing the system.  ? Involve in peer reviews.    Project 6 Software Developer Visusllc ,California (USA) December 2008 to March 2009 Brief  Including the three applications that run on it (main website, kiosk application, podiatry application). The current website uses a hybrid of two older technologies which greatly limit flexibility for improvements, the addition of new features, and updates to the code. The goal of the proposed website revamp is to update the technology used by the website to allow for better and faster access via an updated look and feel. The new core foundation of the site will allow better flexibility for future modules such as up-selling, and gift recommendations. It will also provide for easier and more cost effective maintenance and updates to the site. The update will also allow leveraging modern technologies such as Ajax and dynamic client behavior.    Technology ASP.Net with C#.Net, SQL Server 2005,IIS 6.0,Visual Source Safe 6.0. DHTML ,HTML, JavaScript, AJAX.  Team Size 8  Role Software Developer  Key Responsibilities and Achievements  ? Involved in defect fixing using Microsoft technologies ASP.NET 2.0, C#, and SQL Server 2005.  ? Wrote SQL Queries and Stored Procedures  ? Involved in documentation of the project.  ? Involved in testing debugging, and implementing the system. ASP.Net Developer ITCONS e-Solutions (P) Ltd - Noida, Uttar Pradesh May 2007 to December 2008 Work Experience  ? UI Developer: 5+ Years  ? Server Side Development: 6+ Years Education Bachelor's Degree in Science & Mathematics in Science & Mathematics Gurukula Kangri University Haridwar - Haridwar, Uttarakhand June 2003 Master's Degree in Computer Application in Computer Application Kamla Nehru Institute of Technology - Sultanpur, DELHI, IN Skills Ajax, Asp, Dhtml, Asp.net, Web services, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql, .net, C#, Html, Wcf, Scripting, Vb.net, Xml, Html5, Java, jquery Additional Information Technical Expertise    Databases: SQL Server 2008, 2005, 2000.  Languages: C#.Net, VB.NET  Scripting Languages: Angular JS, Angular 2/6/8, JQuery, Java Script, AJAX.  Markup Languages: XML, XAML, HTML, DHTML.HTML5  Technologies: .Net (4.0, 3.5, 2.0), ASP.NET, Classic ASP, Web Services, WCF,  Window Service, LINQ, MSMQ.  Third Party Controls: Telerik Controls, Microsoft Enterprise Library 4.0, Snowbound  Operating System: Windows server( 2008,2003), Windows (XP,7,8).  Design Pattern: Façade, Singleton, Decorative, Singleton