Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Orange, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer System Pavers - Santa Ana, CA March 2018 to October 2018 Developed new features and fixed bugs for an internal CRM Web Application written in VB.Net and WebForms.  ? Developed new features and fixed bugs for customer facing websites using MVC and Entity Framework.  ? Wrote new and modified existing SQL queries and stored procedures to store and retrieve data from the database. Full Stack .NET Developer Leasehold - Newport Beach, CA October 2017 to March 2018 Built a commercial real-estate workflow application to allow brokers and clients to communicate easier and stay up to date as the project develops.  ? Integrated Amazon Web Services storage API in a C# class. This allowed any parts of the application to call and pass a file stream and have it stored in an AWS folder. Within the function a unique file name is generated using a .NET GUID value to prevent files from being overwritten. A Web API REST service was created to expose endpoints for uploading and retrieving files. With AngularJS a component was built with exposed bindings to allow other developers to customize the return value by either getting the file id or file name back from the REST service. This component is also flexible enough to fit into several parts of the application. Using Bootstrap CSS the layout of the component was styled to be responsive to fit in any device or browser.  ? Built workflow pages for setting property tour dates, tour notes, landlord counter offers, and lease drafts. Created SQL Server tables and stored procedures to store data for each workflow step and linked with existing data tables. A C# class for each workflow point was created to implement ADO.NET for database communication and business logic. Several REST endpoints were required for the workflow process and each implemented Web API in .NET. Model validation and error handling was included in the endpoint logic to verify inputs. Each item in the workflow had their own component built to collect user input and call REST endpoints.  ? Created a feature to capture when users log in and out of the website to be used for team status and messaging. On existing SQL server tables a new column was created to store a status value when a user logs in and logs out. Editing existing code in C# a new function was created to allow communication through ADO.NET to execute a stored procedure to update the login status. Inside the Web API REST service a new endpoint URI was added to allow for an accessible route to update this status using AngularJS. Senior Software Developer Bio-Rad Laboratories - Irvine, CA September 1999 to July 2017 Developed and maintained client specific parser channels in Mirth Connect using JavaScript  ? Developed and maintained internal web application to manage customer profile, data and generate reports using Intersystems Caché ObjectScript, Caché Server Pages (CSP), jQuery, jqGrid, Bootstrap and PostScript.  ? Developed and maintained new features for product license manager using ASP.NET Web Forms  ? Developed and maintained several internal websites using CSP, jQuery, jqGrid and AngularJS. (Code list Tool, Translation Tool)  ? Developed product installer using NullSoft NSIS  ? Developed data management application using VB6  ? Planned, Deployed and Managed Microsoft Project Server 2003 EPM solution.  ? Performed Use Case and Requirements Analysis for Projects using UML.  ? Developed Software Requirements Specification, Software Design Specification and Software Project Management Plans as per IEEE standards.  ? Administer Rational ClearCase, ClearQuest and Requisite-Pro.  ? Developed COM Objects utilizing C++, ADO and SQL Server 2000 Software Engineer FileNET Corp - Costa Mesa, CA August 1998 to August 1999 Developed Visual Basic and Visual C++ applications to test FileNET SDK for assuring its quality.  ? Designed and executed test cases, scripts and programs that validated the accuracy/quality of the software. System Developer I Arthur Andersen - Sarasota, FL July 1996 to August 1998 Part of Systems/Architecture Team. Worked on several projects including the porting of 16 bit Windows code to 32 bit code.  ? Developed Internal tools and applications used for generating content.. Software Engineer Newport Corp - Irvine, CA September 1994 to July 1996 Part of a team, which developed a platform for measuring micro parts.  ? Developed and coded Image Processing Algorithms for the Image processing library.  ? Performed Object Oriented Analysis and Design using Booch Method.  ? Researched and Integrated frame grabber board with the product.  ? Developed Installation Program using InstallShield 3.0 Education B.S. in Industrial Engineering Maharaja Sayajirao University - Vadodara, Gujarat Skills ADO (10+ years), ASP (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), C# Additional Information SKILLS  Front End: JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, CSS3, Bootstrap 3.0, HTML5, AJAX  Middle Tier: ASP.NET, C#, MVC 5.x, Web API 2.x, ADO.NET  Back End: SQL Server 2014  Other Technical: TFS, Agile/Scrum Methodologies, Visual Studio 2015, Third Party API Integration, SQL Server Management Studio 2014