HealthShare Developer HealthShare <span class="hl">Developer</span> HealthShare Developer - Favor TechConsulting LLC Melbourne, FL Expertise in database development for clinical, pharmaceutical, laboratory, hospital and financial systems Medical billing/collections and claim processing for the Patient Accounting Deep knowledge of the Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) concept Ability to provide interface support and bring resolutions to production issues Experience in embedded application development, software testing and test plan development, software validation. Experience translating client business requirements into appropriate business resilience solution, considering all aspects of availability, recoverability, scalability and security Experience designing embedded systems software for use in biomedical applications Proven ability to formulate and implement advanced technology and business solutions to meet a diversity of needs and maximize return of investment Expert in writing and optimizing complex SQL queries, stored procedures Working experience with MS Office, Mumps, C++, Access, SQL. Excellent understanding of medical device software, knowledge on networking concepts IT Audit Intensive experience in contact with clients in various disciplines Excellent understanding of Laboratory and Hospital principles, VISTA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience HealthShare Developer Favor TechConsulting LLC January 2018 to Present Description:  Favor TechConsulting, LLC (FTC) is a Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB), Woman-Owned Small Business (WOSB), and 8(a) Certified Disadvantaged Small Business. FTC is CMMI Maturity Level 3 appraised for both Services and Development and provides a wide range of management consulting and IT services to The United States Federal Government. FTC provides innovative technical and management solutions to support enterprises at every level, fostering continuous process improvement and reducing overall costs while enhancing outcomes. Our core competencies include: Agile Transformation Services, Supply Chain Management & Logistics, Data Science, Infrastructure & Telecommunications Support, Cloud Services and Cyber Security.    Responsibilities:  • Working with the team of software engineers and architects on development the VA VISTA  • Enrollment, Eligibility, CPRS, Scheduling, Registration, Pharmacy, and Claim processing applications.  • Analyzing systems requirements and developing the design specifications.  • Updating the VISTA Database Globals, user manuals.  • Preparing the unit test, coding and debugging routines based on tester inputs.  • Preparing the required documentation.  • Providing the technical direction to less experienced programmers.  • Conducting analysis development and maintenance of software and interfaces.  • Modifying the HL7 interface. VISTA, HL7, MUMPS/Cache, Json, Enterprise Architecture planning and modeling tools, EPIC. Database administrator Juniper Networks, California June 2017 to January 2018 Description:  juniper.net. Juniper Networks, Inc. is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. The company develops and markets networking products, including routers, switches, network management software, network security products, and software-defined networking technology.  Responsibilities:  • Work with the development team to resolve bug-fixes and assist in relevant testing through various environments  • Perform coding migration, database change management & data management through the various stages of the development life cycle  • Provide technical support to databases, including system management, backup/recovery, account management, configuration management, and trouble calls  • Estimate effort to complete software development activities and provide input that adds value to the management of software development projects  • Work with application development staff to develop database architectures, coding standards, and quality assurance policies and procedures  • Has full authority for assigning, directing and evaluating work; conducting performance evaluations, progressive counseling and career development discussions  • Assist with Windows Server configuration and management as it relates to MS SQL Server installation and performance  • Perform and manage daily database maintenance, monitoring and performance tuning tasks/jobs Software Developer Forsys Inc August 2016 to May 2017 Description:  Forsys Inc is a Cloud and Analytics Software & IT Services company. Forsys Combine great employees and bold technologies to enable the next generation of leadership in business and government. With expertise in cutting-edge technologies and infrastructures, and the ability to integrate within existing IT environments, they maximize performance and enable business transformation.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the application following the Agile methodology.  • Develop, test and implement new software programs  • Clearly and regularly communicate with management and technical support colleagues  • Design and update software database. This includes, but is not limited to: Software Applications, Web Sites, Data Communication Processes and User Interfaces  • Test, maintain and recommend software improvements to ensure strong functionality and optimization  • Independently install, customize and integrate commercial software packages  • Facilitate root cause analysis of system issues  • Work with experienced team members to conduct root cause analysis of issues, review new and existing code and/or perform unit testing  • Provide comprehensive support to internal customers; achieve resolution to outstanding problems or issues  • Compile timely, comprehensive and accurate documentation and or reports as requested  • Possess up-to-date knowledge of technological developments in the industry  • Communicate effectively and professionally in all forms of communication with internal and external customers  • Possess strong problem solving and decision-making skills while using good judgment  • Multi-task and change from one task to another without loss of efficiency or composure Junior Developer Electronic Corporation of India(ECIL) - IN January 2014 to August 2015 Description:  ECIL is a multi-product, multi-disciplinary organization with focus on indigenous Nuclear energy, space and Defense sectors. ECIL also has a strong presence in indigenous Electronic Security, Communications, Networking and e-governance domains. ECIL has committed partnerships with nuclear energy establishments of India. ECIL is credited with producing the first indigenous digital computers, TDC 312 and TDC 316, solid state TV, control and instrumentation for nuclear power plants and first earth station antenna of India.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed existing code to determine functionality  • Designed, created and implemented automated report subscription system for warehouses and distributors using crystal reports  • Created Microsoft Windows services for automatic data synchronization between client side and server applications  • Designed, created and implemented security system for different user access level  • Took an active part in product discussion meetings  • Provided project maintenance. Education Master's Skills CACHE, DATABASE, MYSQL, ORACLE, C++, HTML, MUMPS, WEB SERVICES, SFTP, HTTP, SMTP, SOAP, JAX, UNIX, REST, MAC, SQL, Javascript, XML, Linux Certifications/Licenses Driver's License