Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Amazon Inc Bothell, WA Work Experience Senior Software Developer Amazon Inc - Seattle, WA October 2015 to Present Designed and implemented a Web Service for creating Canary instances, EC2 clients, running workload on the EC2 instance and maintaining the canaries.  ? Established CloudWatch alarms and created carnaval monitors for canaries.  ? Integrated with DynamoDB and S3 for storing data and other configurations and script files.  ? Created a Python framework for adding Community tests for Aurora-PostgreSQL.  ? Worked on building features for Amazon Aurora PostgreSQL and RDS PostgreSQL.  ? Implemented Copy on Write feature and added system tests for APG.  ? Built new pipeline for promoting code changes from Pre-prod to Prod regions, adding each new region and working with Region build teams for Region launch.    ? Worked on bringing up the EC2 Reserved Instances utilization above 90% and cut down on excess reserved instances bringing down financial costs.  ? Participated in APG Engine version launches and building out a region for new Region launch, running CMs and working with on-call and Operations.  ? Implemented test framework changes to support clustered databases with various random orderable with predicate generation.  ? Designed, developed and implemented a new feature for Preventing flaky tests from the nightly run.  ? Handled the on-call rotations, creating SOPs, impact analysis, constantly interacting with Engine team and Operations team as needed.  ? Actively participated in Code reviews, refactoring, training and helping onboard new team members. Senior Software Engineer Nintendo Of America - Redmond, WA August 2014 to October 2015 Responsible for the testing of the new implementation of the eCommerce website with the associated supply chain for the sale of digital content.  ? Automated tests for web service API's using Rest Assured and AssertJ libraries  ? Provided maintenance support for CSC and Store components automated Smoke tests using Groovy, Cucumber.  ? Automated Checkout UI functional tests using Selenium and TestNG.  ? Experience working with external API's for address and tax validations, credit card validations and verifications. Senior Software Designer Hewlett Packard - Bellevue, WA April 2007 to July 2011 Core member of the HPNA Network Automation team.  ? Evaluated the requirements for MSP to provide a "Proof of Concept" for the applications that allows managing network devices based on partitions to effectively manage them.  ? Designed, developed and implemented the import/export modules of the policies/scripts feature.  ? Worked on the Localization feature.  ? Involved in the integration with Server Automation and Operations Orchestration.  ? Enhanced the Policy Manager API and functionality to support adding new policies and rules per device  ? Member of the core primary triage, responsible for assigning bugs to developers.  ? Enhanced the task scheduling mechanism, by adding priority to the tasks.  ? Worked on major enhancements, RFEs and bugs and maintenance of the bugs in the entire product.  ? Implemented Schema upgrades for releases on different databases, MYSQL, SQL Server and Oracle. Java Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA May 2005 to March 2007 Involved in the design and development of the modules involved in 2YC (Two Year Contracts).  ? Consumed web services to perform handset upgrade in iCAM.  ? Implemented STSG, a value proposition provided to the new customers to educate them about the products and services they selected, the wireless coverage they will experience, and the charges they will see on their first bill.  ? Implemented a browser based application which provides the capability for the RSR to do the Qualify first path and also helps do a handset upgrade, add a line, pay bill etc.  ? Fixing defects in the existing Legacy POS system. Java Developer Holland America Line - Seattle, WA December 2004 to May 2005 Developed complex modules, like attaching a Voucher (a PDF) for Land Tours, Transaction History and Finance Summary, integrating with different architecture components.  ? Maintained and fixed the defects and enhancements on the HAL website, which keeps track of all the bookings, waitlists and Cancellations made on Shore excursions. Java developer DWD, State Of Wisconsin - Madison, WI May 2004 to December 2004 Involved in the design and development of a web based self-service system for people of Wisconsin to help them find out what benefits they might be eligible for.  ? Involved in the design and development of all modules of the Application Entry subsystem of CARES project. Worked on the framework and architecture components, building custom tags, creating custom templates etc.  ? Developed most of the complex pages, which involve looping through individual and history records, integrating different architecture components, client side and server side validations JAVA DEVELOPER SLK Software services - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2000 to June 2003 Designed, implemented, and maintained several web-based systems for various projects like RMA, SFS, SSCST, TTS, Web Configurator, and SPS. Performed Symphony Plugins testing using Silk Test.  ? Involved in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (from analysis to testing) and gathering the requirements from the Business Team Education Bachelor Of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills Api, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Json, Pvcs, Python, Svn, Dynamodb, Jboss, Splunk, Integration testing, Jira, Junit, Selenium, Testng, Eclipse, J2ee, Java Additional Information Technical skills    Languages:  Languages: Java, C, C++, J2EE, JavaScript, PL/SQL, SQL, Python  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON  Frameworks: MVC, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, Junit, TestNG, Selenium  Web Services: RESTful Web services, SOAP  Tools: Ant, Maven, Sonar, Log4J, Splunk, Neustar, Jira, TeamCity, TestRail  Testing: Functional and Integration Testing, API testing, Regression Testing, UI Testing, DB and Application verification  Developer IDEs: Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA  Version Control: Git, Stash, SVN, CVS, PVCS, Merant, Starteam, Visual Source Safe  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, DynamoDB, MS SQL Server  Application Servers: Tomcat, WebLogic, JBoss, Websphere, JRun Web Server  Cloud AWS