Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Seattle, WA Highly skilled software development professional bringing more than 10 years in software design, development and  integration.  Actively involved in planning, estimation, design and development and demonstrating functionality to the product and  development organization.  Mentored members of the team, improving their skills, their knowledge of the systems, and their ability to get things done. Work Experience Web Developer TATA Consulting Service January 2015 to Present USA. Senior Software Engineer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Seattle, WA December 2014 to Present Played a leading role in the design, implementation and deployment of successful enterprise-level system that helped Agents to quote policies effectively.  • Involved in SDLC cycle like Analysis, Designing, developing, Testing and deploying the Enterprise applications  using dotnet and Object-Oriented Design Patterns based on business requirements.  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD) to build the application  iteratively and incrementally. Participated in scrum related activities and Daily Scrum Meetings.  • Analyze existing web application & modify as per business requirements.  • Used jQuery and AJAX to make the User Interface more responsive.  • Worked on implementing log monitoring using Azure Application Insights.  • Developed Rest services to call Third party to get quote information using Json object.  • Moving our existing application to Azure and CICD.  • Worked with senior architectures from other teams to design the integration touchpoint between various systems and presented to the internal teams and multiple partners.  • Gathered and defined customer requirements to develop well-organized project plans based on clear specifications.  Improved system performance by making proactive adjustments and resolving bugs. System Engineer TATA Consulting Service India Pvt Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu March 2012 to December 2014 Software Developer Morgan Stanley - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2013 to November 2014 Worked on Active Asset Account project which provide users asset information.    • Involved requirements gathering & analysis, design & development and doing knowledge transfers, coding, build releases.  • Used WCF service for Data Access Layer.  • Provided error handling UI, handled all possible exceptions and written those to Event Logs.  • Designed front end screens using HTML, .NET controls, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Performed the test-driven development methodology, which allowed reducing the development time.  • Created Unit Test cases and performed unit testing.  • Discussed application queries with teams by various means such as calls, sending queries through Mails to get the details  of the query, web join sessions.  • Involved in debugging, analyzing critical application issues by looking at the logs and other connectivity.  • Responsible for builds and deployments of the application.  • Administered the source control for the entire project using Team City. Software Engineer Oxford University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2012 to December 2012 • Played a key role in Client module as well as administrative module.  • Responsible for designing and developing the Application using ASP.Net MVC, Razor view engine, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript.  • Designed and Implemented Data Access Assemblies using ADO.  • Used LINQ for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation to data sources.  • Responsible for builds and deployment of the application.  • Performed Test Driven Development activity.  • Prepared test cases, test plan and performed testing in DEV and UAT.  • Provided support during PROD deployment and bug fixing. Software Engineer Think Trade Inc - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2010 to February 2012 ExtensionTax.com is used by the tax payers in U.S. who are not able to file their tax returns by the due  date. The three forms available in the site are:  Form 7004:  Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File Business Income Tax, Information, and other returns.  Here the extension can be filed for 5 months or 6 months based on their tax return.  Form 8868:  Form 8868 is used by an exempt organization to request an automatic 3-month extension of time (6  months for a corporation required to file Form 990-T) to file its return and to apply for an additional (not  automatic) 3-month extension if the original 3-month extension was not enough.  Form 4868:  Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File U.S. Individual Income Tax Return.    • Used Microsoft Enterprise Library for retrieval of data.  • Provided custom error handling UI, handled all possible exceptions  and written those to Event Logs.  • Wrote Test Classes using Microsoft Visual Studio Team System to perform Unit test for the individual block of code.  • Designed front end screens using HTML, .NET controls, JavaScript.  • Wrote Java Scripts, .NET validation controls to validate client-side  data for better quality.  • Web Services to implement Business Services. Software Engineer Jeevan Technologies India Pvt. Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2008 to February 2012 Software Engineer Think Trade Inc - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2008 to February 2012 Tax Excise a versatile, user friendly and easy to use online tax filing software product which enables  Federal Excise Taxpayers in United States to file their excise tax (Environmental taxes, Communication  taxes, Air transportation taxes, Fuel taxes, Retail tax, Ship passenger tax, Manufacturers taxes, Foreign  insurance taxes and Floor stocks taxes) returns electronically.    • Involved in a part of the project from requirements gathering, design & development.  • Used Microsoft Enterprise Library for retrieval of data.  • Provided custom error handling UI, handled all possible exceptions and written those to Event Logs.  • Worked in WCF, Web Services to implement Business Services.  • Played a major role in PDF Bindings for the entire project.  • Responsible for builds and deployments of the application. Education Systems Engineering University of Madras 2011 Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Anna University 2007 Skills .net, C#, Git, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Wcf, Svn, Xml, jquery, Ajax, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Mvc, Rest, Jira, Nunit, Ado Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Language: ASP.NET, C#, WCF, Web Service, SQL Server, HTML, XML, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, MVC3, ADO.Net,  Rest Service, AJAX, CSS.  Databases: MSSQL.  Cloud Services: Microsoft Azure.  Tools & packages: Git, NUnit, JIRA, Bitbucket, Jenkins, Team Foundation Server, SVN, CCNet.  .Net Frameworks: 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5/Entity Framework/MVC.