Lead Software Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Lead Software Engineer - The Solution Design Group, Inc Oviedo, FL Work Experience Lead Software Engineer The Solution Design Group, Inc 2010 to Present September 2006 - Present    Designing, developing, and maintaining web applications for capital and revenue  management using Java, JSF, Richfaces, JavaScript, jQuery, Spring, Hibernate, Groovy, and Grails components, including RESTful web services, and more.    • Developed software from prototype to production quality.  • Converted complex business requirements into software.  • Built a full application with search, configurable dashboard, alerting, audit  logging, filtering, integration with BIRT reports and Pentaho, and much  more.  • Migrated from single tenant to multi-tenant cloud architecture running on AWS making use of AWS Lambdas, EC2, S3, and more.  • Migrated from Oracle databases to PostgreSQL databases on RDS.  • Continuously upgraded and updated software based on customer feedback  and evolution of the software ecosystem.  • As Lead, mentored several more junior software developers.  • Worked closely with CTO and helped write the software requirements and design.  • Communicated with customers and observed use of software to keep  appraised of the purpose of software development: making the user/customer happy.  • Used logging (Logback) to write meaningful log statements.  • Wrote from scratch a PhoneGap based app for Android and iOS.  • Built an AWS Lex bot and associated Android app.  • Broke out some functionality, such as email, into AWS Lambda functions.  • Built a highly scalable, netty based, fully integration tested, Ratpack/Spring  Boot RESTful microservice to asynchronously save thousands of rows of data per upload.  • Wrote thousands of tests and used static code analysis to minimize bugs.  • Used a build server (Bamboo) for building and testing after every change.  • Communicated effectively with team members, test team, and other  coworkers.  • Responded quickly to reported issues and ranked the importance of issues.  • Worked with git, Eclipse, and IntelliJ IDEA.  • Followed best practices and constantly learned (and still is learning) to keep  up with latest technology including at least one conference per year. Software Engineer 2006 to 2010 GUI Developer Harris Corp May 2006 to September 2006 Java software development using Eclipse, UML, Spring, Java Swing. Participated in code reviews to ensure software quality. Software Engineer Vonage January 2005 to April 2006 Designed, authored, and maintained Java code using Eclipse. Gained experience  with Ant, JBoss, Hibernate, web services, XML/XPath, JavaScript, and various third- party libraries. Wrote test plans and responded diligently to reported bugs. Education MS Computer Science in Computer Science Georgia Institute of Technology 2004 BS in Computer Science Georgia Institute of Technology 2003 Skills Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Jsf, Gradle, Groovy, Javascript, Html5, Css, Tomcat, Web services, Postgresql, Sql, Maven, Software design, Rest, Jira, Linux, Architecture Additional Information Specialties    Software design and architecture, agile development, TDD, Java 11, Groovy,  Grails, Guava, REST, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Tomcat, SQL, PostgreSQL,  Gradle, Maven, JSF, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, HTML5, Ratpack, Spock, RxJava, git,  AWS, web services, microservices, Linux, Bamboo and Jira