Senior PEGA Developer Senior PEGA <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior PEGA Developer - Moody's Investors Services Jersey City, NJ ? 11+ years of overall IT development experience.  ? 5+ years of experience in developing Business Process Management and Business Rules Engines applications on Pega platform.  ? Extensive understanding and knowledge of Pega RULES Process Commander.  ? Excellent knowledge in Troubleshooting & performance tuning of PEGA applications using Clipboard, Tracer, PAL and SMA.  ? Experience in All phases of software development lifecycle including analysis, design, implementation, testing and deployment.  ? Design and development of UI's using JavaScript, HTML and custom CSS Stylesheets.  ? Extensive experience on connecting to external systems using PEGA SOAP, REST, File connectors and Email listeners.  ? Vast experience with Oracle Databases. Thorough knowledge & experience in PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers.  ? Ability to troubleshoot and resolve complex production issues.  ? Experience in Finance and Capital Markets sectors.  ? Experience in Waterfall and Agile Development Methodology.  ? Good knowledge of project documentation, requirement analysis document, high level & low-level design documents and test cases based on PDLC standards. Work Experience Senior PEGA Developer Moody's Investors Services - New York, NY November 2016 to Present New York Nov 2016 - Present  Project #1: Moody PEGA Pricing Rule Engine  Team Size: 6    Moody's Fee Engine encompasses the technical implementation of Moody's pricing rules which are primarily defined by the Pricing team. It will utilize a set of fee schedule logic rules to determine appropriate and timely eligibility and calculation of fees to both Draft and Invoice type transactions.    Role: Senior PEGA Developer  Environment: Pega PRPC 7.2, HTML, IBM Web sphere, JSON, XML, JavaScript, Oracle DB, SQL.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Interaction with Business users to understand Use Cases requirements and expectations.  ? Involved in design and development of critical enhancements.  ? Developed Rules based process to support business needs, expansion and performance improvements using Pega PRPC.  ? Involved in unit testing and peer review of fixes.  ? Integrate with external systems to do the case level data enrichment using Connect - REST and SOAP.  ? Enhancements of existing Flows and Activities as per business requirements.  ? Analyzing the specifications provided by the client.  ? Give directions to offshore and help with technical design and do a code review.  ? Created technical design documents and requirements documents based on use cases.  ? Participated in design walkthroughs in PEGA BPM systems to understand the future state system and functional, non-functional and technical requirements of the application Day-day interaction with several stake holders and teams who spanned in different countries across the globe, bring them together to remove dependencies and close key project requirements on time making sure everyone meet the project deadlines.  ? Preparation of Status report on daily basis and discussions regarding Status with client management.  ? Preparing migration project plans, Estimations for data migration and analysis exercise per the changes in the frequent data models PEGA Developer TransAmerica, Florida January 2015 to October 2016 Environment: Pega PRPC 7.x, NET SERVER, JSON, XML, JavaScript, Oracle DB, SQL.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Coding to communicate with the NET SERVER using REST connectors to retrieve various settings like region, business unit where this enterprise custom application will be used. Coding for creating email as an xml document with body, subject, message which will be sent to the Web service.  ? Coding to get the source document id using REST connector from the NETSERVER and representing them in the UI grid where user can select the source id to be sent in the email as well as coding to attach external documents like any jpeg, word, excel file etc. in email.  ? Automatically removing the emails from Oracle database by the trigger for all the emails which were sent successfully. Reconstruction of failed email when user login next time and ask them to resend it. Auto complete email text boxes which searches for valid email address as user types.  ? Integration with MAPI to create Global address list of all the users of the organization. Email address cache when the email is sent to the user for the first time so that next time user doesn't have to type the full email address as it is cached by the Web server.  ? Co-ordination with the offshore team member and with the business users to accommodate the implementation of new features exactly as per the business user requirements and keeping the offshore team member on the same page.  ? Guiding offshore team member on the architecture to be followed for creating the application from the scratch. Guiding offshore team member in case of technical challenges.  ? Participating in following the AGILE methodology for the projects and taking part in to daily SCRUM meetings for the status update on the work done and taking part in to the monthly SPRINT planning and capacity planning. PEGA Developer Moody's Investors Services - New York, NY June 2014 to December 2014 Environment: Pega PRPC 7.x, HTML, IBM Web sphere, JSON, XML, JavaScript, Oracle DB, SQL.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Interaction with Business users to understand Use Cases requirements and expectations.  ? Involved in design and development of critical enhancements.  ? Developed Rules based process to support business needs, expansion and performance improvements using Pega PRPC.  ? Integration design with external systems to do the case level data enrichment using Connect - REST and SOAP.  ? Analyzing the specifications provided by the client.  ? Created technical design documents and requirements documents based on use cases. Senior Developer Moody's Investors Services - Mumbai, Maharashtra April 2010 to May 2014 MUMBAI, INDIA Apr2010 - May 2014  Project #2: Moody Phoenix billing systems  Team Size: 6  .NET application to generate Moody's invoices    Role: Senior Developer  Environment: VC++.NET, C#.NET, Sybase  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Overall responsible for Project delivery  ? Involved in Project estimation, budgeting to decide Project calendar and providing assistance to customer for approval from steering group  ? Implement robust row level security structure to meet security requirement of all users  ? Periodic Project Reviews with Steering Committee and responsible for any Project escalations  ? Driving the entire project and idea from conception to its delivery  ? Involved in Issue Allocation to offshore team and status monitoring during User Acceptance Testing Software Engineer Rigel Networks Pvt. Ltd - Gujarat, IN January 2009 to March 2010 Environment: SQL Server, VC++, COM.  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Feasibility analysis for project on streaming part. Research on RTSP protocol to transmit UDP packets. Coding for communication with .Net Web Services using SOAP protocol. Creating layout for App. Schema designing for the application.  ? Integration of DCAS library to transmit UDP packets of video streams. Enhanced the pre-existing serial key generator module. Assisting team member on development and understanding the system architecture. Co-ordination with client-side technical team.  ? Involved in writing, debugging and testing the code written for the various issues and CR's developed. Worked in performance tuning of Application Engine programs. Database schema designing for the application to maintain user registration data, IP address etc.  ? Stored procedure creation for registering the user as well as accessing the data from the database for the registered users. Software Engineer Rigel Networks Pvt. Ltd - Gujarat, IN September 2007 to December 2008 Environment: C#.Net, VC++.Net, topTAPI, XML, ATL, COM.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Feasibility study on using the soft phone on salseforce.com. Created COM component using topTAPI to use basic call related functionalities like in call, outcall, call transfer, Hold/UnHold. Integration of call functionality related COM component with the soft phone. Created Unit Test Cases.  ? Review of all the work products before delivery for the completeness, correctness and adherence to standards. Involved in writing, debugging for the various issues. Creation of C#.Net desktop application which is used to create the serial key for the software registration purpose.  ? Designing algorithm for generating serial keys. Created functionalities for encrypting/Decrypting the serial keys. Coding for .Net Web Services for serial key registration purpose. Created customized installer so as to take the serial key as an input from the user while installing the software.    PEGA CERTIFICATIONS  ? Certified System Architect (CSA)  ? Certified Senior System Architect (CSSA) Education Bachelor of Engineering in computer science SP University - Gujarat, IN 2004 Certifications/Licenses Pega Certified System Architect May 2018 to Present CSA Pega Certified Senior System Architect July 2019 to Present CSSA Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  BPM Tool PEGA PRPC 7.x  Languages Java, C#.NET, VC++.NET  API Tools Postman, SoapUI  Web/Application Servers WebSphere, Tomcat  Scripting Languages HTML, XML, JavaScript, CSS  Databases ORACLE 9i/10g, 12c, Sybase 15.7, SQL Server 2012  Operating Systems Windows, Linux  Tools SVN, JIRA, MKS, SNOW    PEGA CORE COMPENTENCIES:  ? PRPC V 7.X  ? Activities  ? Decision & Declare rules  ? Data Transforms  ? Case Management    ? Circumstancing  ? Correspondence  ? Flows, Flow Actions  ? Performance Improvement  ? Validation rules  ? SLA    ? Reports  ? Connect-SQL  ? Service-Rest  ? Service -SOAP  ? Agents  ? Listeners  ? Connectors