CRM Developer and Admin CRM <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Admin Software Developer Herrriman I am currently looking for a job as C# developer. I have a bachelor's degree in computer science. I have 2 years' experience writing programs in C# and VB6 to send and receive XML documents in order to obtain insurance rates. I taught myself VB6 and made 2 pieces of legacy software capable of updating and releasing to users again. I have built a replacement insurance form system that allows for simple expansion into other states while being easier for users to use. I  brought monthly user complaints down from over 100 a month to under 40 a month by quickly  assessing and fixing their issues with the software. Work Experience CRM Developer and Admin ManagerPlus - Sandy, UT April 2019 to Present • Manage Dynamics 365 Software and coordinate the needs of 6 departments within the software. Write scripts to automate processes within the Dynamics 365 System so the departments can focus on the customers. Software Developer Quomation Insurance Services March 2017 to March 2019 • Successfully brought monthly user complaints down from over 100 a month to under 40.  • Developed a replacement insurance form system. This new system is easier for users to use  and makes adding new forms quick and easy for the development team.  • Implemented rating systems with over 10 insurance companies. This allows more users to give their clients more options for their insurance. Retrieval Agent Verisk Health May 2016 to March 2017 • I was efficient at retrieving medical records from healthcare provider. This resulted in my  selection for a special project to remotely connect to healthcare providers to download the requested records. Night Auditor Courtyard by Marriott November 2015 to May 2016 • I streamlined processing and backing up the property files. This allowed more time to be  spent assisting customers with their stay.  • I mad an extra effort to learn how to help open the Bistro. This helped the Bistro team be  prepared to help the customers. Education Certificate of Proficiency in Game Development Weber State University August 2015 to August 2018 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Weber State University August 2014 to August 2018 Associate of General Studies in General Studies Salt Lake Community College August 2009 to May 2014 Skills C# (2 years), Git (3 years), SQL (2 years), JIRA (2 years), Agile (2 years), JSON (2 years), XML (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License