Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Spectrum Enterprise Fort Mill, SC Work Experience Senior Software Developer Spectrum Enterprise May 2019 to Present Integrating Splunk logging into our Spectrum Enterprise Engineering Console. This requires modifying all instances of logging and turning it into a keyword format. Including with the robust code change, this task required modification of the current logging messages in every application including legacy code. Along with incorporating more detailed information to make it readable by Splunk and the Dev-Ops Engineers.  ? Created new application which allows for Locations created in our Granite Database to populate our Engineering Database. This includes researching the old process, which was created using the Django Templates and using HTML and Bootstrap. Other process requirements included data validation as the location id on entry, using jQuery. Once a valid location id was entered the location data would prepopulate from the Granite Database and create a new location in the Engineering Database using AJAX responses. Django Class Based Views control the back end of this application. This process also included the standard unit testing using Pytest. Programmer Analyst 2009 to Present Played lead role in the redesign of the Promotional Email Processing System, which consisted of condensing programming structure and documenting the new steps and programs. The redesign reduced scope of the code as well as readability and optimization. This redesign was needed to streamline nightly customer information that needs uploading. The previous process had both RPGIV code and some Java integration. My goal was to make the code base written in Java and remove the RPG code from the process. This allowed for faster running time and better handling of string manipulation. During the redesign I worked closely with the programming group to set timelines and direction on the new process.  ? Using Python with the Pandas, I have created several reports and file transfer utilities. I have also created many different data transformation processes primarily with Pandas and Pyodbc.  ? Played lead role in the schema redesign of the Direct Marketing Database, which condensed file structure by converting data display files to SQL Tables. I documented proof of concept in choosing SQL tables and indexes for processing over IBM's own physical files and logical files (indexes). The redesign included automation of a Monthly Order Data Import and Update Process into our data warehouse. This process was a manual monthly process that took 40 hours to complete. I streamlined and automated this process to run nightly on our job scheduler, cutting back on unneeded processes, and rewriting the system for optimal speed. This process gave our group an extra 40 hours of programming and processing a month because of the automation. This also allowed for the conversion of reports, programs and data which reduced overhead on the mainframe and increased software processing speeds. The data conversion required documented detail specifications explaining to user groups, as well as the Chief Operating Officer, and Marketing Director regarding these new file structures and programming methods. This redesign allowed our group to implement new programming methods into an older programming language. Also I incorporated our reporting system which emails us if something in the import runs improperly. This helps the auditing process as there are many steps associated with the nightly process.  ? Played lead role in data migration of the Cutco.com Database into our Direct Marketing Database, improving functionality for development and maintenance purposes. This process was streamlined with our Cutco.com rewrite, we migrated all our mainframe database files associated with Cutco.com. This meant a modernization of file structure by converting physical files (IBM format) to SQL tables. This allowed us to remove unnecessary processes that wasted processing overhead and space. This process included documentation of project goals, proof of concept and a data dictionary. The migration also included a reworking of all the mainframe programs and nightly processes that are affiliated with the websites functionality.  ? Perform business requirement analysis to develop technical specifications and implement code according to the requirements. Create modules to simplify code into smaller module components. Due to the size of our database we create smaller programs to perform functions on bigger data. An example of this is my customer duplication process. This process takes customers who place orders with us and assigns a new customer profile. If they are a current customer it updates customer information.  ? Perform key functions such as: data analysis, coding, unit testing, integration testing, and code walkthrough. All our programs now are subject to testing and code walkthrough due to the integration of Rational Team Concert. This helps in testing of the code functionality and creates a testing environment for our production programs before deployment.  ? Responsible for implementing database BI programs and BI solutions using customer analytics, based on a model scoring system. This process is our catalog processing. There are close to 70 different programs and processes that need updated and audited 3 times a year and takes close to 1 to 2 months to run and implement, along with 12 Million customers to select from. This requires constant communication with The Director of Marketing and a high profile marketing consultant. Our company has very strict business policy on who can receive a catalog due to our direct selling representatives (95% of business). Catalogs getting in the wrong household could cause conflict. This requires proof of results in a catalog specifications results documentation which I am also responsible for. This requires a precise documented timeline and step by step auditing documents, as well as previously defined SQL Scripts to make auditing more efficient. All of which I am responsible for.  ? Play lead role in creating customized customer value modeling programs for provided fluid mailing plans, based on specified customer variables. I work in close contact with our Marketing Director and Marketing Consultant on implementing the Cutco catalog mailing strategies. Grouping our customers by lifetime value, last purchase date, and other variables giving them a modeling score. Customers are grouped by our scoring system, which I analyze, and implement mail plan by creating unique modules combined with tables specifically for each mail plan in the spring, summer and fall.  ? Maintain database applications and increase efficiency and functionality based on customer or corporate needs, as part of an application team. An example of this is our day to day support of our catalog department, who takes call orders. I am responsible for making sure the customer accounts are kept current and up to date with the most relevant mailing and promotional data. This includes updating our customer promotions history file which houses over 320 million rows of data and contains all physical mailing any customer on our database has received since being a Cutco customer.  ? Develop ad-hoc business intelligence reports and regular datasets with queries using DB2 and SQL. These reports are usually developed charts, lists and pivot tables. This process requires working extensively with the Marketing Product Supervisor and Web Marketing Supervisor. These datasets are usually SQL tables that I make dynamic to be recreated whenever and however frequently needed. I create these reports to be date driven or promotion driven, as an example.  Training and development of annual interns, including RPG and SQL training, business rule guidance, and task assignment, monitoring, and definition. I have been responsible for teaching new interns the RPG language through various documents I created and smaller reports designed for the sole purpose of language familiarity. I meet with them weekly regarding their project list and assign new tasks and approve their schedules and time off.  ? Export, Load and Transfer collected program data into Excel CSV files and pivot tables, for the purpose of data manipulation by the end user. Examples of this would be our catalog data files we send out to vendors, and our National Change of Address process. I use GUI interfaces designed for ELT (iSeries Navigator), and the Excel Connections Function.  ? Documentation of Business Requirements and processes for business rule tracking, and future knowledge of programmers and end users.  ? Skilled at identifying the problems on production systems to provide cost-effective and swift solutions for better maintenance and increased performance. I use the debugging features in Rational Team Concert for RPG and Java as well as the mainframe debugging system. This helps pinpoint changes that need made and can reduce problems during testing phases.  ? Involved in installing and configuring Rational Application Developer for database development. Our company changed their AS400 content management system from turnover to the Rational Application Developer. I worked with the other programming groups to implement the deployment functionality with the Direct Marketing Database.  ? Created software that connects to mainframe using Java, and transfers data from Oracle to AS400. This involves working with web team and connecting through ODBC to our mainframe and transfer data between them. This process was coded in Java and used SQL for the selection criteria as well as SQL updating and inserting new customers.  ? Create Ad-Hoc queries using SQL Developer for our Oracle database whenever data is needed. Software Developer Spectrum Enterprise August 2018 to May 2019 Creating applications for Spectrum Enterprise SEER Application. This includes adding UI functionality with HTML along with search functionality using Python 2.7 and Django Framework version 1.11. Some examples of the functionality would be adding customized input validation leveraging AJAX and jQuery for customized form validation on input. Another is, creating views and incorporating customized requests, adding corresponding functionality, which includes the Oracle Granite Database connectivity and data handling, also using the Django ORM to update the database models on submit. Any application of this nature requires its own unit testing using Pytest and adding test functionality to our test suite, which runs before deployment. An example of this is a re-designing the location entry form which contains the above functionality.  ? Maintaining applications for Spectrum Enterprise SEER Application. This includes adding UI functionality with HTML along with search functionality using Python 2.7 and Django Framework version 1.11. Tasks maintained are search enhancements by adding criteria to the advanced search application. This includes adjusting and adding to forms. Modifying the Django views functions to add corresponding functionality. Also, the database queries using the Django ORM needed to be modified to extract the results needed. Any change of this nature requires its own unit testing using pytest and adding test functionality to our test suite, which runs before deployment. An example of this is adding device model number information to the advanced search. This also needed functionality to allow this information to be downloaded to a csv report.  ? Adding enhancements such as automatically defaulting user permissions to be passed through a configuration selection. This takes away a user's ability to remove their groups permissions from configuration files. This involved removing the standard Django multi-select box and replacing it with a jQuery multi-select dropdown with bootstrap. Once that was set it up I had to manage the template tags and implement them into the views function.  ? Modifying Application User Reporting Design. This is to enhance the user visual experience, which involves form realignment and resetting these forms into the correct divs, while not disturbing the functionality of the process.  ? Using Selenium to unit test any fixes or bugs. Any HTML or Django function which takes significant changes need tests using Selenium of mimic an actual browser experience which acts as a user experience. This also allows for an easier debugging experience for the Django Application on a development environment.  ? Refactoring legacy selenium tests. This involved making certain tests that performed Mulesoft API calls more resilient. The Mulesoft APIs were still in process, and due to the response timeout it was causing tests to fail. I had to modify and sometimes rewrite the unit testing so the calls to the API would print out a more readable detail of the API issues without actually failing the tests. This allows for faster deployment and easier trouble shooting for the API calls. Apex Systems August 2018 to May 2019 Cutco Corporation 2000 to August 2018 Programmer 2002 to 2009 Performed business requirements and developed technical specifications. Developed software based on specifications provided by supervisor. Responsible for updating and transferring promotional email lists for the Direct Marketing Group.  ? Created scripts and processes to create customer lists for Cutco Stores. Responsible for assisting in Customer Profiling including customer modeling/scoring, sorting, suppressing and uploading lists to the printing vendors.  ? Responsible for maintaining customer promotion database, which houses over 300 million customer promotions.  ? Performed maintenance functions for Database such as monthly database updates, Email Change of Address, and National Change of Address.  ? Extract, Load and Transfer Data for National Change of Address, and Email Change of Address.  ? Responsible for maintaining existing procedures and adding database enhancements.  ? Created technical specifications for database development, as well as user defined specifications.  ? Utilized Debug Utility to enhance current software. Programming Intern 2000 to 2002 Learned Mainframe Coding Language via training modules, and incorporated them in real world solutions.  ? Created and modified reporting based on specifications given by Database Coordinator.  ? Developed the Database Maintenance System, an interactive system used by Direct Marketing to query customer data. This development included all technical specification for the system, as well as defining end user specifications.  ? Worked closely with IT Helpdesk, providing support of any technical kind, to end users. Education Training Certificate Jamestown Community College at Olean 2005 BS in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Pittsburgh at Bradford March 2002 Skills DATA MIGRATION, DATABASE, DB2, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2012, ORACLE, RELATIONAL DATABASE, SQL, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, CLP, DJANGO, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PYTHON, PANDAS, REAL TIME, DATA ARCHITECTURE, DATA INTEGRATION Additional Information ? SKILLS SUMMARY  Extensive experience with:    ? Relational Database Management Skills (16+ years)  ? Real Time and Batch Processing (16+ years)  ? Data Architecture (16+ years)  ? Schema Design (16+ years)  ? Python (1 year)  ? Pandas Dataframes (1 year)  ? Java (3 years)  ? Data Migration (16+ years)  ? Data Integration (16+ years)  ? Data Warehousing (16+ years)  ? Extracting, Transferring and Loading Data (16+ years)  ? RPGILE (16+ years)  ? RPGIII (16+ years)  ? RPGIV (16+ years)  ? IBM AS400 (16+ years)  ? IBM i7.1 and lower (16+ years)  ? iSeries Navigator (8+ years)  ? DDS (16+ years)  ? CLP (16+ years)  ? DB2 (16+ years)  ? FTP (16+ years)  ? RPG Free Form (10+ years)  ? SQL (9+ years)  ? Eclipse (9+ years)  ? Pycharm (2 Year)  ? Microsoft Visual Studio Code (1 year)  ? Git (1 year)  ? Git Bash (1 year)  ? Microsoft Excel - Pivots, Lookup Functions (9+ years)  ? Rational Application Developer (6+ years)    Experience with:    ? Javascript  ? Oracle DB  ? CSS  ? HTML  ? jQuery 3.3  ? AJAX  ? Django 1.11  ? Jupyter Notebooks  ? SQL Server 2012 Management Studio  ? SQL Server Import and Export  ? IBM Data Studio  ? Microsoft SSIS 2016 Express  ? Microsoft SSMS 2016 Express  ? Agile Central  ? Vagrant