Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Driven and detail-oriented Software Developer with strong technical background. Minneapolis, MN I have developing experience with Python (Flask, Django), Javascript (React, ES6), Java (Hibernate, J2EE, Spring), Golang (Gin, Gorm), HTML (Bootstrap), CSS, with the help of knowledge on technology such as Git, MySQL and NoSQL as well as AWS. Besides that, I have 4+ years of implementing and designing full-stack applications using RESTful APIs, with strong Object-oriented background and strong familiarity with Agile SDLC model, have experience with consulting entrepreneurs developing applications using this method Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Enactus USA September 2018 to June 2019 • Implemented, designed, and launched a website called CafApp that allows college students to order food online and have it delivered to their residence; used Golang: https://github.com/duyng404/cafappreturns   • Executed live-time administration website for CafApp administrators to monitor orders, deliveries, and queue times; used Javascript (ES6) and React: https://github.com/duyng404/cafapp-admin Teaching Assistant Gustavus Adolphus College February 2018 to June 2019 • Computer Science I and II (projects-based classes focusing on Python and Java) Lab Assistant,Tutor and Grader.   • Directly introduce and support students throughout the school year with programming languages, functions and software developments and computational algorithms, as well as perform projects testing to evaluate each students' work.  Technology Consultant Gustavus Adolphus College September 2017 to June 2018 • Assist groups with elaborate technical tasks such as building program's databases, developing websites (both front-end and back-end), integrating cloud applications and connecting to ETL vendors as well as deploying on an affordable server.  • Test the finalized product and help teams find the right solutions for the future products' architect. This task involves UX designs, administration network interfaces and big data analysis.  • Connect students with different programmer network so they can keep developing after the competition. Backend Developer Intern Global Enterprise Mobility (GEM) corporation - Hanoi, VN May 2016 to August 2016 • Worked closely with Java team and learned how SAP concur was used to solve enterprise resource planning software problems .  • Served on website development team that built sales websites for a European vendor using Java and Node.js.  • Gained exposure enterprise technology solution management and SaaS. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Gustavus Adolphus College - Saint Peter, MN September 2015 to June 2019 Skills MySQL, Java, HTML, Javascript, Git, Jquery, Android, CSS, HTML 5, Python, Go (programming language), REST API Links https://github.com/dpham273 https://www.linkedin.com/in/duy-pham-286189113/