Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Advantage 360 LLC Rancho Cucamonga, CA A system architect, lead developer position in areas of e-Commerce, embedded systems, Cloud and  Big data information technology or related fields which allows me to apply my skills and experience in  solving customer challenges, and the opportunity for career growth. Work Experience Software Developer Advantage 360 LLC 2001 to Present The company is a leading provider of billing, BSS/OSS, CRM, and POS solutions, and worked with corporations worldwide. Company facilitated installations in more than thirty nations.  I am responsible for 3rd party integration (banking, credit reporting, payment, facility, work  flow, roaming), mediation, rating and switch provisioning modules. Integral player in designing and architect new implementations. Software Developer and Billing Department Manager Mobicom Corporation 1996 to 2001 Directed and managed team of freelance programmers to develop in-house Billing and CRM  system for the Mongolian First Mobile Telecom company. The project was completed  successfully within the project planned time and the company offered Manager position in the Billing Department to support and continue improving the billing system. Software Developer and Team leader Bodicom - MN 1996 to 1998 Responsible for project development, supervising developers, gathering and documenting  client requirements, and overseeing deployments. Worked and lead projects of Banking and Stock Exchange systems.    Awards  Simultaneous Awards of the Bachelor and Master's Degrees on thesis work "PC FM  Radio", 1996    My major was software programmer, however I have huge passion in electronics. For the project I designed 8 bit ISA board controlled from Windows application. The application had  ability to memorize stations and auto tune to selected stations. I was the only one, awarded  with both degrees on same time, in history of the Mongolian University of Science and Technology.    Mongolian Informatics Olympiad 1992, Silver Medal  The seconds national Olympiad of informatics took place in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia 1992. The  competition tasks were of algorithmic nature; however, the contestants have to show such basic mathematical knowledge, IT skills as problem analysis, design of algorithms and data  structures, programming and testing. Education MS in software engineering Mongolian Technical University 1992 to 1996 Skills ASP, CSS, HTML 5, MYSQL, Git, Javascript, PHP, c++, .Net (C#, VB, powerscript), MS SQL