Software Engineer III <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer III Software Engineer III - Molina HealthCare Los Angeles, CA Proficient in the following: Adobe Photoshop AngularJS, MongoDB, Bootstrap 3.0, Bower, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, C#, VB.Net, REST, Web Services, ASP.Net, MS SQL 2000, 2005, 2008, MVC 3, ADO. NET and Entity Framework, Oracle Database, Visual Studio 2003, 2005, 2008, 2010, 2013 and Crystal Reports Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer III Molina HealthCare - Princeton, NJ June 2016 to Present Write and maintain web application used to administer MEDICAID program for the State of New Jersey Human Services applications using C# and VB.Net. Leveraging Microsoft Visual Studio controls, JQuery, CSS3, AngularJS, Bootstrap among others. With Oracle / SQL as the back-end, I employ objects like ADO.NET for legacy application and REST for new application in data binding. Commercial Programmer NRG Energy - Hamilton, NJ June 2015 to May 2016 Write and maintain Microsoft Office / Web Applications using VB.Net and C# leveraging third-party controls, Visual Studio, COM objects, JQuery and JavaScript. These applications are used to support the RISK group who intend Traders in the daily commodity trading activities. Software Developer Salient Federal Solutions - Philadelphia, PA July 2014 to June 2015 Defense Contractor)  Design and develop new application components using jQuery/JavaScript front end and Business Rules consumed from projects pointing to Oracle database. Use Visual Studio 2010 to implement and maintain application in response to request from stake holders. Use of JQuery in client side validation and other functionalities. Also used JavaScript where necessary. Create Web 2.0 type graphics for front end using JQuery. Leverage C#, Linq to object implementation. Application Developer CEI, Trevose, NJ February 2013 to July 2014 Design and develop new application components using jQuery/JavaScript front end and Business Rules consumed from projects pointing to MS SQL 2008 database. Use Visual Studio 2010 to implement and maintain application in response to request from stake holders. Invoke Web Services to create objects/data that is consumed by JQuery Ajax function in POST/GET JSON parameters. Create Web 2.0 type graphics for front end using JQuery. Test application in a cross platform mode focusing on IE9/8/7, Firefox, Chrome and Safari. Tweaking the code till a common ground is found for cross platform compatibility. Software Developer Research Analysis and Maintenance - Fort Dix, NJ June 2012 to February 2013 Design and develop new application components using MVC 3 web application framework. Implementing the rich and robust architecture with VB. net language and Entity Framework 4.1 API and objects on SQL 2008 back-end. Apply custom themes to these application using CSS and JQuery. Modify existing application by replacing deprecated components with user-controls created with Visual Studio 2010, Ajax and JQuery. Create and modify existing reports by merging modules specific to Crystal Reports in VB.net Visuals Studio applications. Report files are compiles into the application and filtered in Visual Studio with Crystal Decision assemblies and stored procedure parameterized objects. Use Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services in creating reports with graphical presentation. Create reports using sub reports, parameterized stored procedures, user defined tables among others and newly added objects in SQL Server 2010 to customize reports with charts. Software Developer ADP - Roseland, NJ July 2010 to June 2012 This project is aimed at migrating data from legacy distributed database systems using Informatica powercentre and PL/SQL programming, Built history and incremental data load of different components on daily basis .Built centralized datawarehouse environment to generate forecast reports and dashboards for data analytics. Programmer Analyst International SOS September 2007 to July 2010 Manage database and application development and administration assignments for diverse internal clients. Ensure technical and functional designs meet business requirements. Design and develop application components Create and modify reports Write application programs employing office automation Use Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) in creating reports with graphical presentation Use Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) to extract, transform and load data Developed and tested storage strategies and disaster-recovery plan for operational database, delivering solution that guaranteed recovery performance and high availability. Redevelop existing applications written in Visual Basic classic using Visual Studio 2005 Redevelop Visual Studio 2003 form using Visual Studio 2005 Create database tasks for database backup and scheduled data migration Document newly created applications or upgrade documentations Install new applications and later versions Education MFA in Sculpture Rutgers University New Brunswick - New Brunswick, NJ 1993 to 1995 Skills .NET (8 years), SQL (8 years), VISUAL STUDIO (8 years), DATABASE (7 years), jQuery (5 years), Python, Linux, C#, C, Java Additional Information SKILLS:-  Data Management and accessibility.  Proficient in the following: Adobe Photoshop AngularJS, MongoDB, Bootstrap 3.0, Bower, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, C#, VB.Net, REST, Web Services, ASP.Net, MS SQL 2000, 2005, 2008, MVC 3, ADO. NET and Entity Framework, Oracle Database, Visual Studio 2003, 2005, 2008, 2010, 2013 and Crystal Reports