Sr Programmer Sr Programmer Sr Programmer - City of Miami Miami, FL Work Experience Sr Programmer City of Miami August 2015 to Present Working at City of Miami  Working as leader developer for the Public Safety Team:  • Designed and developed a Security Service Token using OIDC and Oauth2.0. This solution provides authentication, single sign-on and authorization to all applications at City of Miami.  • Developed a Security Application to register applications, APIs as well as their users and roles.  • Designed and developed the architecture to integrate several applications for the Fire Department in a single  application portal.  • Redesigned and developed old applications (Fire Department) as Progressive Web Applications, providing a UI  with mobile native capabilities such as offline access and web push notifications.  Technologies: ASP NET CORE, C#, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Telerik, AJAX, JSON, XML, SQL  Server.    IDE: Visual Studio .NET Architect / Sr Software Developer SMART Solutions December 2012 to April 2015 Cuba)  Working under contract for SMART Solutions (A Private Cuban Company)    Designed and developed a business management software solution to store, manage and interpret data from many  internal business activities.  • Designed architectural prototypes and reusable components for the system.  • Designed and developed the architecture using best programming practices such as IoC, Repository Pattern and projects logic separation to achieve a high cohesion and low coupling.  • Coordinated and supervised the work of programmers to ensure that good practices approach was used.  • Designed the Database using code first approach.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using bootstrap and responsive design to develop compatible applications  across different web browser and devices, providing an optimal viewing and interaction experience in mobile, tablets and PCs.  • Developed an admin backend to manage the server-side content. Strong knowledge of jQuery, Ajax, and bootstrap  was required to build reusable component such as Grids (Paging, Sorting, Filtering) and Trees.  • Designed and implemented well-formed reports and web-based reports improving operational efficiency and business productivity.  • Designed and developed unit testing to test individual units of source code.  Technologies: ASP NET MVC4, C#, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, XML, SQL Server.  IDE: Visual Studio .NET Designer/Sr Software Developer ONBC August 2012 to November 2012 Working under contract for ONBC (National Organization of Lawyers)    Designer and Developer of the website for the national organization of lawyers.  • Participated in the discussion of design with the designer's team.  • Presented prototypes for the UI design and system's modules.  • Defined the systems design and systems requirements.  • Designed the database.  • Developed the Drupal Theme and the management module.  • Designed and developed unit and integration testing scripts for acceptance.  • Taught courses of Drupal as part of the capacitation to Network Administrators at ONBC.  Technologies: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Drupal CMS, PHP, SQL.  IDE: NetBeans, SublimeText Architect/Sr Software Developer Albet SA November 2006 to July 2012 Working under contract for ALBET SA (National Software Company, CUBA)    ? Worked with a team in the System for the Cuban Electoral System    • Led the discussion of the security architecture of the solution.  • Developed a small JavaScript Framework to serve as base infrastructure to manage all the modules and use cases  in the solution. Strong knowledge of JavaScript, POO concepts, Prototype chain and Inheritance was required.  • Developed Reusable Controls and Components in ExtJS.  • Developed the security subsystem module.  • Participated in the solution's testing and deployment.  Technologies: ASP NET MVC4, C#, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, XML, SQL Server.  IDE: Visual Studio .NET    ? Worked with a team in the Autonomous Service of Registries and Notaries (Justice Department), developed and deployed in Venezuela.    • IT Consulting  • Designed and developed the architecture.  • Designed the Database.  • Developed the Frontend of the admin system and the management system.  • Supervised the design and the system's functionalities to ensure the consistence with client objective.  • Participated in the Testing process.  • Taught courses of ExtJS and Linux, as part of the capacitation of the software developers in Venezuela in charge  of maintenance the software.  • Participated in the deployment of the solution.  Technologies: ASP NET MVC4, C#, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, SQL Server  IDE: Visual Studio .NET    ? Worked with a team to build a Report Generator in JAVA, the report Generator is used has part of Business Intelligent  in several applications.    • Participated with the architecture team in the architecture discussions.  • Responsible for leading the Report Designer Subsystem.  • Responsible for designing the UML class diagram for the Report Designer.  • Developed the Frontend of the Report Designer using ExtJS and OpenJacob JavaScript libraries.  • Developed the Report Viewer Frontend.  • All the frontend work was developed for multiple browser compatibility.  Technologies: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, XML, ExtJS, JAVA, JSP, Jasper Report, PostgreSQL, SVN.  IDE: Eclipse    ? Worked with a team in a Thermo-Sugar Simulator, a C# Desktop Solution to design and simulate Thermo-Sugar  process in the Sugar Cuban Industry.    • Designed the UML classes for the Undo and Redo system.  • Developed the Undo and Redo system.  Technologies: C#, SVN.  IDE: Visual Studio.NET Education University Teaching and Innovation - University of Information Technology - La Habana, CU 2011 to 2012 BS in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Information Technology - La Habana, CU 2005 to 2010 Skills .net, C#, C/c++, C++, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Symfony, Svn, Html5, Mvc, Sql server, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Asp, Asp.net, Web design, Java