Principal Software Developer Principal <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Principal Software Developer - SAS Institute Inc Mount Gretna, PA Specialist in designing innovative technical solutions to some of the most challenging problems in business. Relentlessly researching the latest technology and cutting edge patterns to further leverage in designing creative integrations. Currently focused on event driven architecture, reactive systems, and Apache Kafka. Work Experience Principal Software Developer SAS Institute Inc January 2014 to Present Solution/Integration Architect Role:    • Responsible for designing and leading implementation of integration between multiple financial systems (Oracle Fusion, 11i, DAX), messaging systems (RabbitMQ, ActiveMQ), and pre-existing legacy services using Apache Kafka.  • Developed event-driven solution to centralize errors from multiple microservices and take action using Apache Kafka and multiple Kafka client libraries. Adoption was greatly improved by the ease of using native clients and the kafka-rest-proxy.   • Drastically reduced implementation time for financial system migration by using Kafka and Oracle Golden Gate to create events from change data capture. This allowed us to consolidate order actions taken by 5 different global services into one event produced by a Kafka Streams application.  • Designed a solution for GDPR compliance using Apache Kafka that addresses both data retention and the need for accurate test data.  • Championed Kafka internally and successfully proposed it's adoption.  • Authored internal documentation, guides, and sample github projects on Kafka, Kafka Streams, CDC, Kafka Consumer/Producer API's, EOS, and the Kafka Rest Proxy.  • Implemented client side security on all Kafka microservices   • Implemented CI/CD for all event microservices and related components. Senior Software Developer SAS Institute Inc January 2011 to January 2014 • Designed, led, and implemented changes for the successful certification of our internal invoice application by the Portuguese Government.  • Modernized DAX financial feed to Oracle view based design.  • Led internal training seminars on Python.  • Wrote Python bindings for SAS. Software Developer SAS Institute Inc January 2007 to January 2011 • Led UTF-8 Oracle upgrade and SAS9 integration utilizing DBCS features.  • Redesigned distributed global applications to utilize a central design with available localization settings.  • Designed and implemented batch process improvements in order to minimize run time.  • Participated in audit compliance measures and information gathering for major regulatory acts.  • Provided training and documentation on new SAS technology. Application Developer SAS Institute Inc January 2003 to January 2007 • Designed and supported major contracts applications, specific functions include licensing and media generation.  • SAS/AF application and all associated SAS, Perl, and Python scripts.  • Published API - Java wrappers around SAS/SCL methods; used by several consumer applications.  • Participate in security investigations concerning sensitive customer data and software piracy concerns. Education Bachelor of Arts in Economics Rochester Institute of Technology 2003 Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics Rochester Institute of Technology 2003 Skills MySQL, Oracle, Apache Kafka, Kafka, MongoDB, Linux, Docker, Python, Java, Integration Architecture, Git, Spring, Kubernetes Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jbfletch http://@jbfletch_ https://github.com/jbfletch