Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Programmer / Systems Administrator Springfield, VT I'm looking for a programming or system administering job using classic and modern technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer ADP - Lebanon, NH 2012 to 2016 Programming and code strategist utilizing Vanilla Java for Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO) systems within the Talent Management division of ADP.  • Programming Process Improvements: Developed and implemented virus detection processes site-wide on all uploaded and downloaded documents through ClamAV servers, reducing system infections department-wide.  • Work Process Efficiency: Built series of back-end scheduling functions that has reduced employee labor efforts through automation of previously manual processes.  • Reporting Development: Design and execute customized dynamic reports that generate based on end-user filtering. Conceptualize enhanced background processing methods that reduce impacts of large reporting needs on systems performance, reducing downtime and outages. Software Developer DEALICIO - Hanover, NH 2011 to 2012 Spearheaded programming and coding processes that supported a Social Commerce Deal platform web startup company.  • Website Enhancements: Employed CakePHP and Ruby on Rails frameworks which resulted in enhanced website performance during tech start up phases.    Career Progression (Cont.) Full Stack Developer TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT, INC - Los Angeles, CA 2007 to 2010 Re-engineered traffic management and safety company web site and internal technology processes to align new business development and growth initiatives.  • E-Commerce Platform Development: Created online product store platform in Django/Python and integrated a large legacy SQL Server database.  • Website Creation: Implemented CodeIgniter/PHP to plan and write company website, which led to an increase of 100% in website traffic.  • Server Support: Set-up, configured, and managed Lighttpd on Slackware Linux web servers, mitigating systems down time. Software Developer TECHTARGET - Boston, MA 2004 to 2007 Provided technical leadership in programming and coding to support the efforts of a technology media company and its advertising efforts. Employed usage of Struts as well as Java web stack technologies.  • Efficiency & Quality Improvements: Worked in Agile/Scrum based technology teams to create and implement web site features that improved end-user navigation, functionality, and streamlined access. Programmer Analyst/UNIX System Administrator SCIENCE SYSTEMS AND APPLICATIONS, INC - Greenbelt, MD 2002 to 2004 Supported MODIS Characterization Support Team that calibrated two NASA satellites at the Goddard Space Flight Center through technical knowledge of programming and UNIX Administration.  • Raw Data Quality Control (QC): Processed large satellite dataset amounts.  • Program Development: Wrote numerous programs that applied staff scientists' formulas to datasets.  • UNIX Administration: Installed and maintained UNIX/Linux processor platforms and connected peripherals, providing problem resolution and systems documentation.    Technology Proficiencies    Programming Languages: Go, Clojure, C, Python, Java, Tcl, JavaScript, Unix Shell, Awk, Perl, PHP  Databases: SQL, Postgres, MySQL  Web Frameworks/ APIs: Django, CodeIgniter, Drupal  Version Control Systems: Git, Subversion, CVS Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Rhode Island 1999 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF RHODE ISLAND - Kingston, RI Skills Sql Server, SQL, Jquery, HTML, Javascript, Linux, XML Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/paulkw http://oldcode.org