Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Toshiba Global Commerce Solutions Detroit, MI • Over 11+ years of experience in Software Development with 8 years of experience in native Android application development.  • Proficient in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process: requirements gathering and analysis, development, testing, support and other project management activities.  • Adept in programming languages like C, C++, Python and Java with hands on experience in developing Android Enterprise Applications for mobiles using Android Studio and Eclipse IDE.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design using Java/J2ME on Windows and Macintosh platforms.  • Experience in using Jenkins for build process and continuous integration and deployment.  • Having good experience in Agile software development process and Scrum methodology.  • Having in-depth knowledge and understanding of UI/UX requirement and experience in using Invision.  • Hands on experience in integrating RESTful services using Retrofit 2.0, Volley and Okhttp within the mobile application.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as Builder, Factory, Singleton, Façade, Adapter etc.  • Hands-On experience in developing Apps using Google Plays Services such as Google Maps, Google Analytics and Google Cloud Messaging.  • Experience in building flexible User Interface using Android Material Design guidelines.  • Experience in working with several automated Testing Frameworks including Junit4 and have good knowledge in external libraries Mockito, Espresso and Robotium and UIAutomator.  • Having experience in using Firebase as a backend for Realtime Database, Crashlytics, RemoteConfig, Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) and Firebase Authentication.  • Excellent knowledge in using Paintcode which allows you to draw custom views and convert them to appropriate Java code.  • Good experience in using Location and Sensor APIs.  • Having experience in using Hockey App for publishing builds to QA during pre-production stage.  • Having good knowledge in using Android Architecture components such as Live Data and ViewModel.  • Having hands on experience in using external libraries such as Glide, Picasso, Dagger2, GSON, RxAndroid etc.  • Having good experience in building applications using MVP and MVVM architecture.  • Highly capable in handling multiple tasks, prioritizing, and meeting deadlines.  • Ability to coordinate and work closely with offshore team members involved in the project.  • Quick learner, excellent analytical, design and problem-solving skills. Work Experience Software Engineer Toshiba Global Commerce Solutions - Detroit, MI January 2018 to Present Project Description  Toshiba's TCx Elevateis an integrated digital commerce platform that brings all channels, touchpoints and apps together to create engaging customer experiences. TCx Elevate provides Point of Sale services with wide range of capabilities including automated self-scan, payments, digital pricing etc. to the clients.    Roles and Responsibilities: • Created an external library from the base Android Application and integrated with Walmart's Check Out with Me Application.  • Developed new Cordova plugins for keyboard and scanner.  • Implemented Automatic Firmware Updates on the Ingenico ISMP4 device using Cordova Plugins.  • Used Volley library to make network calls across the Check Out with Me Android Application.  • Implemented Take Extract functionality which creates a JIRA card with the logs as an attachment.  • Integrated WARP camera scanner within the Check Out with Me App.  • Worked on different environments such as DEV, SIT, QA and Production.  • Modified existing Cordova plugins for RBA SDK, Payment Plugin and printer to support new functionality.  • Implemented seamless cellular transition where the app switches to the best available network between cellular and Wi-Fi.  • Setup a SOCKS proxy to retrieve dependencies from Walmart's Nexus Repository.  • Used Looper for build generation and continuous deployment.  • Developed new user-interface to show the associate in-case of any errors or network issues.  • Provided defect fixes for the issues reported by testers and associates in production.  Environment: Android Studio 3.2.1, MacOS Mojave, Volley, GitHub, AccuRev, Instantis, Eclipse, Slack, Microsoft Teams, WebEx, Zoom. Android Developer Verizon Telematics - Atlanta, GA October 2015 to December 2017 Project Description:  Hum is an enterprise level IOT project owned by Verizon Telematics.A total of three tiers which includes Hum-x, Hum + and Hum Free. Varied level of features and services are available to the customers based on the tiers like High Fidelity vehicle tracking, Boundary and Speed alerts, Safety Score(includes Gamification), Navigation, Parking reminders, Vehicle Diagnostics, Roadside Assistance, Wi-Fi Hotspot and Discounts.    Roles and Responsibilities: • Worked with latest Android UI components like Coordinator Layout, Constraint Layout and Card Views to implement flexible User Interface.  • Implemented Safety Score feature into the app by integrating the Driveway SDK that provides the score based on your driving.  • Used SQLite Database to store the user trip information for Safety Score feature locally in the mobile device.  • Implemented Safety Score Leaderboard where you can connect and share your Safety Score and compete with your friends on weekly basis.  • Worked on My Account feature of the application where you can edit/update the profile and vehicle information.  • Developed features from scratch using MVVM design architecture.  • Implemented 2 factor authentication for the Login flow.  • Incorporated Adobe Analytics Tagging in the mobile application provided by AdobeMarketing Cloud.  • Worked closely with the product owners and architects to incorporate Adobe Analytics Tagging in the application.  • Worked on complete migration process, redesign and refactoring from previous app.  • Used Retrofit 2.0 to make various network requests and web service calls.  • Used Hockey App to distribute the application internally to the project management and QA.  • Implemented order capturing and submitting the order for D1 customers which includes Credit Card processing using Chase Payment Tech's Vhpp page.  • Used Drag Linear Layout library for drag and drop of list view items.  • Made appropriate changes in the app to support Android Oreo which includes Foreground services, Adaptive Icons, etc.  • Consumed Microservices and worked closely alongside the design team in architecture of microservices.  • Used Android Data Binding Library to bind views to activities and fragments.  • Worked alongside other agile teams to implement static maps, navigation and roadside assistance using MapQuest API.  • WroteGradlebuildscripts and worked on different build variants such as Dev, Pre-prod, SIT, JIT and Prod.  • Identified crashes using Fabric's Crashlytics and fixed them.  • Participated in Retrospective, JAD sessions and Guild meetings which occurs every sprint.  • Worked on various Proof of Concepts(POCs) and demonstrated to project management during innovation week which happens every quarter.  • Used JIRA as a project management tool other Atlassian tools such as Confluence, BitBucket.  • Worked with Junit4 library to implement unit testing. Android Developer GEICO - Chevy Chase, MD January 2013 to September 2015 Project Description:  Geico mobile application includes tools that allow you to manage your insurance needs at your fingertips. It lets the users to pay and manage their bills the easy way.    Roles and Responsibilities: • Developed User Interface for most of the modules in the application using List View, Grid View, View Pager and Tab layouts using Action Bar.  • Integrated search widgets to perform search through their collections, load recent search.  • Worked on new permissions model for the app to support new Runtime permissions starting Android MarshMellow.  • Developed custom UI by drawing on the Canvas using native Android SDK.  • Implemented Tablet compatibility for the application, which was only phone compatible earlier.  • Documented a Tech Design Document for the application architecture.  • Developed User Interface to support different screen sizes and orientations.  • Consumed Restful web services using Volley library and was part of design team in architecture of Web services.  • Integrated a module Barcode Scanner to the Geico app to scan QR codes and Camera API for accessing the camera to use the QR code.  • Worked on the local data storage using shared preferences, SQLite database and file system.  • Used FindBugs and Lint(A static code analysis tool for Android) to check for possible errors and fix them.  • Worked closely with QA team while fixing bugs andcrashes.  • Involved in unit testing with eclipse debugger and USB debugging.  • Implemented Serializable and Parcelable objects in a bundle to send across activities.  • Improved the application performance by detecting memory leaks using DDMS(Dalvik Debug Monitor System).  • Developed generic libraries for downloading images and other resource using Async task handlers.  • Worked on Code Obfuscation, shrinking of resources and minimizing the APK size.  • Developed utility classes to handle Validations of user information using regex functions and other common app functionalities.  • Implemented Dialog Fragment to share the product with their friends and family.  • Implemented Singleton design pattern for utils classes in the application.  Environment/Tools: MAC OSX, Java, Android SDK 6.0, ADT 21.1.0, Android Marshmellow API 23, Proguard, JSON, REST API, Eclipse 3.6, Gradle, XML, JIRA, Camera API. Software Developer Red Bus January 2010 to December 2012 Roles and Responsibilities: • Implemented View Holder design pattern to optimize ListView scrolling and performance.  • Implemented Swipe Tabs and Scrollable Tabs using ViewPager widget.  • Developed User Interface to support different screen sizes and tablets using Resource Qualifiers.  • Integrated search widgets to perform search through their collections.  • Worked on debugging the application using Log cat and DDMS.  • Worked with Activities, Fragments, Intents, Servicesand SQLite Database.  • Created Custom Splash Screen for application.  • Worked on Multithreading, CachingStrategies, Memory Management and Battey Optimization techniques specific to mobile devices.  • Managed tasks within Agile framework, cleared Sprinted tasks, and controlled JIRA workflows.  • Implemented the modules in the framework which is used by the entire application.  • Worked with Notification Service to notify the user, any special offer, and automatic log out for security purpose and update the apps version.  • Implemented User Interface to support multiple screen sizes and orientation.  Environment/Tools: Windows 8, Java, Android SDK, ADT 21.1.0, JSON, REST API, Eclipse 3.6, Gradle, XML, SQLite3. Java Developer Syndicate Bank January 2008 to December 2009 Roles and Responsibilities: • Participated extensively in writing Use Cases and generated Class, Sequence diagrams for Designing using UML.  • Written java classes for developing application byusingOOPSconcepts,multi-threading,inheritance,polymorphismandcollectionAPI.  • Used XML parsing techniques for data handling and JavaScript front-end pages.  • Extensively developed web pages using JSP, HTML, JavaScript and CSS in the front end.  • Coded at Server side in Action Classes and DAOs to implement the business logic.  • Worked with build tools like Jenkins to deploy application.  • Used SOAP services for exchanging the XML schemas using HTTP.  • Involved in Peer reviews and Code walk throughs.  • correctly when integrated.  • Exposure to Linux range of operating systems.  • Assisted QA process in test cases preparation, execution and fixing of bugs.  • Communicated the issues and progress to project manager.  Environment/Tools:  Java, J2EE,JavaScript,Windows/Linux,Eclipse,WebServices,HTML,CSS,XML,SOAP,JUnit. Education Bachelor's