Senior Applications Consultant Senior Applications Consultant Senior Applications Consultant - Rockwell Automation Milwaukee, WI • Having overall 13+ years of experience in all phases of the software development life cycle (SDLC). Responsible of analysis, design, development, Testing, implementation and maintenance of business (web and windows) applications in client/server technology, Internet/Intranet based programming.  • Good experience in creating MSI installer from Windows Installer XML Toolset (WIX3.11).  • Basic knowledge of Xamarin.  • Experience in design, development and improvement of Web/Windows applications with the utilization of ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#, ADO.NET, XML, WCF, WPF, SOAP, WSDL, SQL Server and MVC using .NET framework.  • Good experience in designing and implementing desktop application in Windows Forms and WPF, MVVM.  • Good experience in design using Object Oriented Programming Principles like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Encapsulation & Data Abstraction.  • Strong hands on experience on Test Automation Framework and scripting language Power shell, Python.  • Have experience on component testing, Smoke test, Ad-hoc test, Regression test, Performance testing, System Hardening Analysis, Security Testing and Achilles Testing.  • Having experience include requirement analysis, test planning, creation, review and execution of test cases and maintaining test traceability matrix.  • 4+ years of experience in writing automation scripts using Test automation Framework using Squish, batch files and shell scripts.  • Also have experience on extensively used software as Aptest, IBM Rational Quality Management, Achilles Client and Hardware, Clear Case, GIT, Test Automation Framework, CLM, Code Collaborator, SAP, Jenkins and Version one.  • Experienced in creating corresponding Unit Test Suite for applications at various modules and did Integration, System, Load, Functional Testing, Test Automation skills.  • Having experience of Agile methodologies like Sprint, Scrum, Backlog grooming, Daily Scrum meeting, Program Increment, PI Objective, Load capacity, Kanban, EPIC, Story, Scrum Master ,Sprint Back Log , Spike, TaskBoard , StroryBoard, Test center, Estimation, Product owner ,Story Promotion, User Story, test boggles.  • Involved in every phase of Agile, SAFe and Waterfall Methodologies of a SDLC ( Software Development Life Cycle) with the iterative and Evolutionary standards.  • Good Knowledge of data access strategies like ADO.NET, ADO databases and also knowledge on SQL Server and Oracle databases. Hands on experience in SQL Server and Oracle database development in writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Constraints and User Defined Functions.  • Experienced in creating corresponding Unit Test Suite for applications at various modules and did Integration, System, Load, Functional Testing, Test Automation skills.  • Experience in using Team Foundation Server (TFS), SVN, GIT, IBM Clear Case and Visual Source Safe 6.0 for Version Control.  • Extensive experience in developing reusable frameworks, components and tools for improving development productivity, software quality and maintainability.  • Hands on experience (4.5 years) in USA as Programmer/ Developer and QA / onsite coordinator; responsible for business and technical requirements, offshore query resolution, status reports, reviews, deployment / delivery. Work Experience Senior Applications Consultant Rockwell Automation - Milwaukee, WI January 2018 to Present Rockwell products (Controllers and software's) are used all over the industries having an automated manufacturing process. Examples of such industries include (but not limited to) Food and beverage industries, Packaging industries, Automotive industries and so on. These industries have developed complex manufacturing processes over the years to achieve maximum throughput. Rockwell Automation products are used to automate these processes and hence Rockwell keeps on adding new features in line with the latest industry requirements. These features have to be verified and validate before releasing into the market and/or to the end users. Rockwell Automation project requires the verification and validation of all compact and control Logix product functions, features and characteristics in addition to the detection, management, and resolution of anomalies relative to specified and unspecified functions, features and characteristics of PLC products. The person responsible for these kinds of specialty testing must undergo various types of testing using a wide range of tools and techniques.  We need to develop new automated testware for functional firmware testing and developer integration testing for Rockwell Automation Industrial controllers (Standard & Safety) including ControlLogix and CompactLogix in Python, using proprietary libraries. Anomaly resolution and bug fixing of existing testware and perform regression testing are the associated work activities.    Responsibilities:  • Architect, Design and develop firmware for Next-Gen Industrial automation Logix Controllers.  • Understanding Product Requirement and Feature Specification.  • Debug and resolve issues arising during design and development of features.  • Perform Code reviews for features and tests developed.  • Run regression test cycles when a planned new feature development phase is complete.  • Develop and perform Unit tests and Developer Integration tests for firmware/features developed.  • Participate in technical feasibility analysis and prototyping activities.  • Participate in Program Increment, Sprint planning and implement SAFe Agile software development practices in project.  • Mentoring the Scrum Team on Technology.  • Tracked, identified and logged bugs using QTest and ITS (Issues Tracking System), and worked on bug to ensure bugs are fixed, as well as being responsible for automation of features.  • Analyzing requirements, developing business rules and attending reviews to arrive at design patterns / solutions.  • Functionality testing, regression testing and integration testing of various builds on different controller's.  • Designed, wrote, and executed system-wide test plans and test case suites for automation test frame components of Software Firmware project.  • Developed libraries, object repositories and optimized configurations for RATools(Python).  • Converted manual functional and regression scripts to keyword data-driven automated scripts.  • Created Test Plans, Cases and Scripts for UAT, functional and regression testing.  • Automated, modified, executed, debugged and analyzed test results using RATools.  • Developed and executed performance test script scenarios based on the business requirements and specifications.  • Analyzed the performance test results and provided recommendation to the performance tuning team.  • Developed an effective automated test script design with objectives of maximizing the reusability and their maintainability.  • Unit testing of developed module.  • Maintained and upheld GIT for code to be secured in a multi-group environment.  • Participated in various Client meetings with the team and the Project manager to discuss improvements/amendments in the development of the section.    Software Environment: Python, C#, WPF, MVVM, Visual Studio 2017, Agile methodology, SAFe, QTest, Agile Jira, GIT, Microsoft Share Point, Rockwell Software (Studio 5000), Rockwell Communication Server (RSLinx), Rockwell Product Platform Directory (Factory Talk), Rockwell Exclusive software (RA Tools, Test Supervisor) Others (Python2.7, Jenkins)    Hardware Environment: Rockwell PLC Controllers (Guard Logix Controllers, Compact Logix controllers, Safety Controllers(ICE1 safety, ICE2 Safety controllers) Software Engineer/Programmer Developer Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc March 2018 to December 2018 The Atellica(TM) Connectivity Manager (ACM) product is a software solution that functions as a gateway for the Siemens Remote Service (SRS) enterprise application. The solution act as a gateway enabling several instruments to be connected remotely to SRS for service support. As Microsoft releases operating system updates, Siemens evaluates them to determine their relevance to the security and functionality of Diagnostics IT products. SRS provides both ongoing remote monitoring of connected Siemens devices and as-needed remote desktop support. It provides Remote login, file transfer, package transfer, device properties and device queries features which will help the service team to monitor and service the instruments.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing MSI & Executable installers/Bootstrapper of ACM from Windows Installer XML Toolset (WIX).  • Participation in representing the individual and team efforts in sprint planning. Managing and organizing the daily task and activities.  • Involved in developing front end using C# Dot Net, WPF and MVVM.  • Understanding of the Feature Specification or user stories.  • Responsible for performing static analysis and code coverage of the development functionality using the code coverage tools ensuring quality is achieved to meet the customer medical quality management system guidelines.  • Analyzing requirements, developing business rules and attending reviews to arrive at design patterns / solutions.  • Produced documentation of test requirements based on the business requirements.  • Create and perform unit testing to validate and verify the implemented functionalities using the Nunit and Microsoft Test-MSTest frameworks.  • Responsible for publishing and consuming the WCF Services.  • Functionality testing, regression testing and integration testing of release candidate builds.  • Identified and raised bugs EPR using TFS Tracking System and working on bug to ensure bugs are fixed.  • Responsible for deploying the code base at Staging/QA/UAT and production environment server remotely or manual load build and make sure on the configuration required for each environment.  • Responsible for documenting the deployment process.  • Work on Direct revision, repair, or expansion of existing software to increase operating efficiency or adapt new requirement and rewrite programs using workflow chart and diagram, and apply knowledge of computer capabilities, subject matter, and symbolic logic.    Software Environment: C# dot Net, VS2017, WIX3.11 Toolset, WPF, MVVM, TFS, Jenkin's, Microsoft Test Manager 2017, Agile methodology, PowerShell, Log4net.  Hardware Environment: Siemens instruments hardware (e.g. Vista). Software Engineer/Computer Programmer Rockwell Automation - Milwaukee, WI March 2015 to December 2017 ViewE is the new product development of Rockwell Automation. We test various features Of ViewE Product on different variants of product by creating the project and deploying it on various variant. The viewE product family is intended to span a wide range of Human-Machine Interface (HMI) behaviors in the context of operator interaction with Automation control systems. The span of our concern ranges from the small and simple to the large and complex from a single terminal interacting with a single controller Through multiple controllers interacting with multiple operator terminals to a Population of operator interface stations operating against a set of redundant, robust, Distributed manufacturing services.  Responsibilities:    • Understanding of the Feature Specification or user stories.  • Implemented the object-oriented programming concepts in C#, WPF Forms.  • Involved in developing front end using WPF, MVVM, MEF and Prism.  • Tracked, identified and logged bugs using Rational ClearQuest and ITS (Issues Tracking System), and worked on bug to ensure bugs are fixed, as well as being responsible for automation of features.  • Involved on performance and memory leaking analysis.  • Analyzing requirements, developing business rules and attending reviews to arrive at design patterns / solutions.  • Functionality testing, regression testing and integration testing of various builds on different size panels.  • Designed, wrote, and executed system-wide test plans and test case suites for automation test frame components of ViewE project.  • Interpreted and converted manual test cases into automation smoke and regression suites.  • Developed libraries, object repositories and optimized configurations for TAF.  • Converted manual functional and regression scripts to keyword data-driven automated scripts.  • Created Test Plans, Cases and Scripts for UAT, functional and regression testing.  • Automated, modified, executed, debugged and analyzed test results using TAF.  • Worked closely with application designers/ developers to resolve documentation, design & functional issues with various applications.  • Developed and executed performance test script scenarios based on the business requirements and specifications.  • Analyzed the performance test results and provided recommendation to the performance tuning team.  • Produced documentation of test requirements based on the business requirements.  • Developed an effective automated test script design with objectives of maximizing the reusability and their maintainability.  • Assisted with the research on industry trends and enhancements to meet new technology and business demands.  • Update Architecture and Requirement documents of updated module  • Unit testing of developed module.  • Branch rebasing and promotions via GIT.  • Maintained and upheld GIT for code to be secured in a multi-group environment.  • Participated in various Client meetings with the team and the Project manager to discuss improvements/amendments in the development of the section.  • Provided guidance to other developers in the team to accomplish their individual task for the project.    Software Environment: Agile methodology, SAFe, Test Automation Framework, IBM Rational Clear Quest, GIT, Issue Tracker, IBM RQM and RTC, Microsoft Power Point.    Hardware Environment: Multiple Types of controller's (L75, L73S, L1Y, L2Y, L3Y, L3Ys, L8Z, L8Zs, L3Z, L3Zs and EPIC) and Terminals (HMI: 5300, 5310, 5500 and 5510 with multiple sizes), Software Developer/Computer Programmer Boston Scientific - Lowell, MA December 2012 to March 2015 Next Gen LAB Pro System is a next generation Medical device to be used by doctors for treating arrthymias condition. System captures real time signals from various medical devices during electrophysiology and displays on monitor and records it in storage medium. This component runs various medical algorithms on the various medical signals and artifacts captured from devices for a patient and helps doctors to take decisions while diagnosing the arrthymic conditions in heart.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in Requirement Analysis, Low Level Design, Coding and Integration.  • Implemented the object oriented programming concepts in C#, WPF Forms.  • Involved in developing front end using WPF, MVVM, MEF and Prism.  • Responsible for developing the reusable Components on UI(Views) by developing the Partial Views, View starts, and reusable components for implementing the business rules with C# and OOPS Concepts.  • Design, develop and implement WCF and Web application which consume SQL server as backend.  • Worked in MVVM architecture to create Win applications using .NET and SQL Server.  • Responsible for publishing and consuming the WCF Services.  • Implemented the bootstrap pre-build structures for responsive design and compatible over all devices.  • Involve in development of different database objects containing Stored Procedures, Triggers using T-SQL.  • Experience on working with Automation Testing on TAF.  • Maintaining the Source code using Team Foundation Server (TFS) in a multi developer environment.  • Recent intensive project experience in WPF (Windows Presentation Foundation) development including front designing in Microsoft Expression and back programming in MS Visual Studio.  • Experience on Writing stored procedures and SQL queries to fetch the data using SQL Server 2008.  • Tested the code developed by writing Unit Testing and Integration Testing to ensure it is accurately captured the existing business processes.    Environment: Visual Studio .NET 2012/2013, .NET Framework 4.5, WPF, WCF, MVVM, ADO.Net Entity Framework, WinForms, Automation Testing, C#, MS Access ,Agile Scrum Methodologies, Bootstrap, TFS, PowerShell, Telerik Control, Lighting Chart, Infragistic Control. Software Developer BNP Paribas - Hong Kong, HK August 2010 to January 2012 Client Xpress is design by the investment bank sales team on certain predetermined them and is desired to create a focused group approach. Now based on their clients/corporate are selected from the groups or companies which already exist in the CM system. Client Xpress have six modules Administration, Call List, Account, Reporting, Campaign, and Roadshow. It is CRM based software. This software is provide facilities of communizing with customer with help of Emailing, Client Interaction Note(CIN), Massaging, Calling etc. this software is very attractive of design and good performance for user intraction.it have separate part of Admin utilities which provide Client/customer details.    Responsibilities:  • Work collaboratively with business owners to assist in development of Business Object reports. Tasks including requirement gathering, development, testing and maintenance.  • Designing and Implementing Interfaces and Classes using Object Oriented Programming Structure and Design Patterns.  • Gathered Client requirements and converted them into the Technical Specifications and developed Win forms using VB.NET and WPF.  • Created WinForms for developing the applications using wpf controls.  • Developed secured web services using .Net, C#, XML/SOAP.  • Analyzed and designed new WPF application utilizing MVVM and Repository design, from design to completion.  • Involved in coding User Interface using WPF (XAML, Data, Template, Control Template, Style resources).  • Involved in development of .NET XML Web Services.  • Involved in developing SQL Server database items like Tables, Stored Procedures, Triggers and Indexes. Created complex SQL statements/Stored Procedures for retrieval of data from the relational table to the web forms of the Licensing System.  • Hands on experience with N UNIT testing for the application.    Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2012, .NET Framework 4.0/4.5/, VB.NET, WCF, WPF, LINQ, ADO.NET, Bootstrap, WinForms, IIS, Crystal Report. Programmer Habsons Information Technology Services Pvt. Ltd - IN August 2007 to August 2010 E-Business Suite is mainly designed for fulfilling all the needs of Multi Domain Industry. For enhancement of every business and Improve productivity e-Business Suite have prepared this package Define to be BPM (Business Process Management Solution). For enhancement of your business and improve productivity. It has some modules as - Marketing module, Project Management Process, Procurement Logistic, HR module and etc. It is having near about 200 reports. Apart from that it also provides the user, the flexibility to design their reports. It also has Multi location & Multi Company feature. CRM (Customer Relationship Management Solution: - is a solution to serve the better their customer through reliable self-service automated process, personal information gathering and processing. CRM system plays an important role for the success of any organization, effective management of customer data and ads Value well beyond sales and service. Faster and reliable data acquisition, which help in immediate and accurate customer response, Data quality improvement through elimination of redundant data and processes, Unified listing and view of customer activities, better analysis of customer processes.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in all stages of software development life cycle including feasibility analysis, design, implementation, deployment and testing.  • Involved in developing front end using ASP.NET, C#, HTML, and CSS.  • Designed and Developed the UI in the Presentation tier using ASP.NET Web Controls, User defined Controls, Wizard Controls and Validation controls.  • Developed Interactive UI Screens using ASP.NET, CSS, and AJAX controls.  • Developed as a Model View Controller application thus achieving separation of business logic and UI concern enabling an efficient test driven application.  • Developed data-access layer using ADO.NET for proving the communication between the business layer and data base.  • Extensive experience in applying Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and used design patterns like Factory, singleton and MVC framework.  • Implemented the Model-View-Controller (MVC) framework to segregate the markup from data and logic.  • Used Java scripting, TEWS, Master Pages, Custom & Validation controls for developing rich interfaces.  • Designed Test Cases to test the application.  • Made Extensive use of .NET 3.5 Framework features.  • Used Database Object, Stored Procedures, Views and Triggers in SQL Server 2008.  • Implemented service in WCF. Used Basic Http Binding for binding purposes.  • Created stored procedures, T-SQL, functions to retrieve, insert, delete data in the database.    Environment: Visual Studio 2010, .NET Framework 3.5/4.0, ASP.NET, MVC 3, C#.NET, Entity Framework, Team Foundation Server, SQL Server 2008, Testing. Education Bachelors in Information Technology in Information Technology Uttar Pradesh Technical University Skills Mvvm, Wpf, .net, Applications development, C#, Git, Python, Reporting tools, Svn, Vb.net, Bugzilla, Qtp, Jira, Ado, Ms access, Ado.net, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Oracle, Sql Additional Information Management and Leadership Skills:    • Leading and coordinating offshore teams.  • Participating in recruitment activities.  • Helping teams develop reusable components and tools.    Technical Skills:    Databases MS Access, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server 2008/2012 R2, H2 DB.  Languages C#.NET, VB.NET, Python  Development Tools  WPF, MVVM, PRISM, MEF, WIX3.11 Toolset, ASP.NET, ADO, ADO.NET,ActiPro, Infragistic and Telerik controls, Python, VB Script, Java Script, Web Services (WSDL/SOAP), LINQ.    Testing Management Tools/ Automation Tools  Aptest, IBM Rational Quality Management, Achilles Client, Microsoft Test Manager tool and Hardware.  QTP, Test Automation Framework, Squish, Python and PowerShell scripts.    Bug Tracking Tools/ Team collaboration Tools Clear Quest, Bugzilla, Microsoft test Manager (MTM) Version one, IBM, CLM, SharePoint, QTest, Agile Jira  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports 8.0, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  Operating Systems Windows 98/2000/XP/7/8/10, Windows Server 2003.  Version Controls Visual Source Safe 6.0, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Tortoise SVN, IBM Clear Case and GIT.  Methodologies  SAFe, SDLC, Agile Development, Waterfall Development, client / server and web applications development. Knowledge of industrial automation and Medical,    Documentation and Tracking Microsoft Office Suite.