Package Solution Consultant Package Solution Consultant Package Solution Consultant - IBM India Pvt. Ltd. India Sayreville, NJ ? 10+ Years of programming experience as an Oracle PL/SQL developer in Analysis, Design and Implementation of Business Applications using the Oracle RDBMS.  ? Extensive experience with analysis, design, development, customizations and implementation of software applications including ERP applications.  ? Good knowledge on logical and physical Data Modeling using normalizing Techniques.  ? Developed Complex database objects like Stored procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.  ? Developed materialized views for data replication in distributed environments.  ? Experience in Oracle supplies packages, Dynamix SQL, Records and PL/SQL Tables. Loaded Data into Oracle tables using SQL Loader.  ? Proficiency on using various Oracle utility tools SQL Plus, TOAD, PL/SQL Developer, SQL*Loader.  ? Proficient in analyzing and translating business requirements to technical requirements and architecture.  ? Firsthand experiences in setting up Oracle GoldenGate one-way, two-way/bi-directional, active-to-active and active-to-passive data replication.  ? Good Knowledge of key Oracle performance related features such as Query Optimizer, Execution Plans, SQL profiling and Indexes. Experience with Performance Tuning for Oracle RDBMS using Explain Plan and HINTS.  ? Strong database skills, Object Oriented Programming and development knowledge  ? Experience in leading and managing teams. Handled multiple roles - Project Lead, Team Lead, Software Architect, Developer and Application Database Admin.  ? Expertise in Oracle PL/SQL and Application DBA (ADBA).  ? Well-acquainted with the software development life cycle (SDLC).  ? Good communication skills, interpersonal skills, self-motivated, quick learner, team player.  ? 5 times recipient of 'IBM individual award for outstanding contribution'.  ? Certified SAFe 4 Practitioner. Work Experience Package Solution Consultant IBM India Pvt. Ltd. India October 2013 to Present As a Project Lead/Team Lead responsible for Analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of customized AT&T Sales Application for new implementations and upgrades for our IBM US customer AT&T    * Responsible for leading a project team in delivering solution to our customer in the Automotive sector.  * Deliver new and complex high quality solutions to clients in response to varying business requirements  * Responsible for managing scope, planning, tracking, change control, aspects of the project.  * Responsible for effective communication between the project team and the customer. Provide day to day direction to the project team and regular project status to the customer.  * Responsible to code his module, integrate code from all the developers from every single module and test the code to meet the requirement given. Also he was responsible for code review to check code methodology been followed in all module.  * Responsible for providing technical direction for the development, design, and systems integration across multiple client engagements from definition phase through implementation. Appling significant knowledge of industry trends and developments to improve service to our clients. Suggesting alternative technical solutions to meet client requirements more efficiently, and/or with greater reusability, and / or longer life. Executing development plans across multiple projects and revises as appropriate to meet changing needs and requirements. Identifying reusable code required for our code library and ensures the high quality creation of the code. Defining communicates and enforces coding standards.  * Responsible for end to end delivery of both enhancement and maintenance projects. His responsible included like creating a Project Plan, estimating for the projects, track the project and update the Project plan in Work Breakdown Structure to get the status from the project team, to make sure proper review happened for all the deliverables and issues.  Environment: Oracle ADF, Java, J2EE, spring, JDeveloper, Oracle 11g, Oracle - WebLogic  Team Size: 25 (Split in to sub teams of 10 -15 each) Software Developer Web Development Company March 2011 to October 2013 B'lore, India    Joined WDC on March, 2011 as Software Developer on contract basis to IBM.    ADOPT (AT&T Design Automation and Pricing Tool) is a Design Pricing and Proposal tool used in AT&T for complex services like Managed Information System (MIS), AVPN (AT&T AVPN) and Unified Communications (UC).    * Work with AT&T requirement Engineer in translating business requirements into Functional Requirements Document and to Detailed Design Documents  * Lead analysis sessions, gather requirements and write specification and functional design documents for enhancements and customization; Analyze product impact  * Present and defend product designs and architecture to clients  * Coordinate and communicate tasks with developers  * Responsible to code his module, integrate code from all the developers from every single module and test the code to meet the requirement given. Also he was responsible for code review to check code methodology been followed in all module.  * Responsible in ensuring all the issues, risks are resolved in time, escalate to appropriate higher management in case of very propagating risks. Also ensure to have mitigation plan for any issues/risks, track the plan and close.  * Responsible in utilizing in-depth knowledge of functional and Technical experience in various technologies in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer. Review designs both high level and low level designs, involve all the stakeholders in the review, track the defects found in reviews. Establish Quality Procedure for the team and continuously monitor and audit to ensure team meets quality goals. Prepare Deployment Plan, schedule, week end activity list and release management check list 2 or 3 weeks ahead before the project delivery. I kept informed about the release schedule and setup a call with all the stake holders, explained each task during the project installation.    Environment: Oracle ADF, Java, J2EE, Spring, JDeveloper, Oracle 11g, Oracle - WebLogic  Team Size: 25 (Split in to sub teams of 10 -15 each) Software Engineer Zenith Software Ltd August 2008 to March 2011 BANC724-HO: This is a classified Head Office Automation banking Product; it has modules like Accounts, Administration, Investments, Reconciliation, Personnel Administration, Refinance, and Consolidation. This is a fully parameterized system that allows maximum flexibility for immediate adoption by the bank.    * Handled Multiple roles and responsibilities; Lead architect, Developer, project manager in the capstone project of the degree program, to deliver a commercial grade Integrated Multi-Carrier Package Shipping System.  * Analyzed the customer requirements by analyzing defect information and by conducting advance requirement gathering workshops.  * Actively involved in understanding and resolving issues related to design and implementation.  * Developed the Masters, Transaction Screens & Reports on Investment module mainly using PL/SQL, VB 6.0.  * Written Stored Procedures Using PL/SQL in Oracle 10g for various Reports and Voucher Processing.    Environment: Oracle SQL/PLSQL, VB 6.0, Oracle 101g  Team Size: 4 or 5 Education MCA in Computer Applications Bangalore University - Bengaluru, Karnataka Skills Ms access, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Scripting, Visio, Vb 6, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Unix, Unix shell, Data replication, Loader Additional Information Skill Set    Oracle 12c/11g/10g, MS Access, MySQL, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, Oracle GoldenGate 11gR2/12c data replication. *Loader, SQL*Plus, TOAD, Explain Plan, Execution Plan, SQL Developer, MS Visio, UNIX, Windows, Red Hat Linux, Oracle PL/SQL, VB 6.