System Analyst System Analyst System Analyst • Having around 10 years of total experience in the software development, focusing on C/C++/  Linux((HP-UX, and RedHat Linux)/Storage/Data Science with R/Python/SQL/Tableau/  TensorFlow.  • Python(pandas, Numpy, SciPy, scikit-learn, matplotlib)  • R(data manipulation with dplyr, graphic displays with ggplot2, machine learning with  packages including MICE, randomForest, XGBoost)  • Fluent with SQL(constructing a procurement database system)  • Tableau(data visualizations)  • TensorFlow(deep Learning)  • Knowledge of LINUX Internals/ System programming/Inter Process Communication and Shell  Scripting.  • Fluent with SQL  • Assisted in mining data from the SQL database that was used in several significant  presentations.  • Assisted in offering support to other personnel who were required to access and analyze the  SQL database.  • Experience in all stages of development of large project using C/C++/ Clearcase Subversion on  Linux.  • Knowledge of Linux Kernel compilation and cross compilation.  • Knowledge of Linux Device driver and System programming.  • Worked on Linux boot loader, Board Support Package and grub.  • Knowledge of Virtual File system, ext3 etc.  • Good knowledge of Socket, TCP/IPv4/IPv6 and routing protocol like ICMP, SNMP, BGP, RIP.  • Good Knowledge of Multithreading, Semaphore, Message queue, Shared memory and other  IPC mechanism.  • Hands on experience of Client-server programming.  • Worked in different storage boxes like 3-PAR, XP and EVA  • Participated in Code reviews, Risk management, design document as well as implementation  phase.  • Good knowledge of Object oriented Analysis and design using UML. Work Experience System Analyst Mphasis, a division of HP Enterprise Services - Fort Collins, CO March 2015 to July 2016 Fort Collins Colorado, USA  Project: Networking Support in Debian 2.x/4.x/5.x and 7.x  Role: System Analyst  Environment: C/C++/Debian/Kernel 3.2.30  Description: The HP Debian Extensions Project (HPDE) provides enhancements (or  "extensions") to the Debian GNU/Linux distribution for certain vertical markets and HP  platforms. The goal is to be a single release stream of bits, available in multiple flavors. Works on Ethernet driver for HP Generation 8 & 9 Server with the Debian OS. This included  implementation of data structure. Works on different packages for HPTE for bnx driver, grub,  iproute, SAS driver and Openssl. Currently working on kernel 3.2.30.  Responsibilities:  • Assisted in creating SQL database maintenance logs and presenting any issues to the database architects.  • Assisted in developing SQL database mining procedures for various department heads.  • Completion of Feature Design Document  • Completion of Feature Qualification Plan  • Code modification, unit testing, helped in system testing.  • Defect Fixes and handling interim release for escalated bugs  • Defect management and assignment to the appropriate team  • Handled the kickoff meeting and regular meeting about work updates  • Updating relevant fix and other comments on their tool Trac.  • Helping test engineers to understand the feature and providing necessary guidance and setup environment to test the feature Mphasis, a division of HP Enterprise Services January 2012 to February 2015 Client: Hewlett-Packard, USA  Project: HPUX SecurePath on HP-UX 11.11/11.23 Senior Software Developer Mphasis, a division of HP Enterprise Services March 2010 to December 2011 Role: Senior Software Developer  Environment: HP-UX/Perl/C/C++  Description: HP Storage Works Secure Path is a server-based software product that enhances HP  Storage Works RAID array storage systems by providing automatic path recovery from server- to-storage-system connection failures. Secure Path supports multiple input/output (I/O) paths between host and storage, which improves overall data availability. If any component in a path  between host and storage fails, Secure Path redirects I/O requests to an alternate path.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for preparing the existing SQL platform for upgrades that were installed as soon as they were released.  • Assisted in creating and presenting informational reports for management based on SQL  data.  • Often called on to help make changes to the SQL database that would prevent data  corruption.  • Requirement gathering and Functional analysis of projects  • Project Planning, estimation, prototyping  • Completion of Feature Design Document  • Completion of Feature Qualification Plan  • Code modification, unit testing, helped in system testing.  • Defect Fixes and handling interim release for escalated bugs  • Defect management and assignment to the appropriate team  • Updating relevant fix and other comments on their tool known as GR8.  • Helping test engineers to understand the feature and providing necessary guidance and setup environment to test the feature  Company: Mphasis, a division of HP Enterprise Services  Duration: Mar 2010 - Dec 2011 Senior Software Developer Larsen & Tourbo Emsys, Bangalore March 2009 to December 2009 Client: Hewlett-Packard Cupertino USA  Project: Enhancement of OnlineDiag: HPUX product to monitor faults for core hardware  devices in HP-UX 11.31  Role: Senior Software Developer  Environment: HP-UX/Perl/C/C++/ iSVN  Description: On a system running the HP-UX operating system software, online diagnostic  utilities enables you to perform the following operations check the status and property  information of hardware components during regular maintenance or because the system is not  performing as expected under Normal circumstances. It automatically receives error messages about hardware components through EMS and STM tools.  EMS is a monitoring framework that provides for configuring resource monitoring of various  notification methods for sending messages when a resource experiences an unusual event or reaches a critical value.  STM comprises support tools that you can use to run tests on hardware resources Provides low- level error handling components that are also used for recording and viewing while running tools like information, Firmware upgrade, verifiers, and Expert and Exerciser tools.  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering and Functional analysis of projects  • Project Planning, estimation, prototyping  • Completion of Feature Design Document  • Completion of Feature Qualification Plan  • Code modification, unit testing, helped in system testing.  • Defect Fixes and handling interim release for escalated bugs  • Defect management and assignment to the appropriate team  • Co-ordinate between HP-Cupertino and local team  • Handled the kickoff meeting and regular meeting about work updates  • Participated in Bug buster and defect trigging  • Helping test engineers to understand the feature and providing necessary guidance and setup environment to test the feature  • Proactively worked on creating new feature for warranty which could be of help in serviceability and would substantially bring down the warranty cost. One such effort was  using reverse wrapper for CIMON for EMS event.    Company: Larsen & Tourbo Emsys, Bangalore.  Client: Vitacon, Norway  Duration: Mar 2009 - Dec 2009  Project: Ultra Bladder Monitor device    Role: Senior Software Developer  Environment: Ubuntu/Suse/Redhat Linux/C/C++/ VSS    Description: A standalone Bladder Monitor, including an ultrasonic probe, 8.4 inch touch screen, and a built in thermal printer. VitaScan Portable can easily be carried around the hospital or  outside, when doing patient home visits. Vitascan can also be places on a roller cart. VitaScan  portable is the perfect choice if you are looking for a standalone bladder monitor. It can also be  connected to a database which will be running in IPv4/IPv6 networks and will be used for fetching patient's data online on OE. It has Touchscreen capability, Stores images, records and  reports, On-board Printer, Bluetooth wireless connectivity.  Responsibilities:  • Coding off the External & Recorder Formatter Printer.  • Interacting with Different Open Source community ubuntu Distro maintainer and Red  • Hat Maintainer  • Understand the need of monitoring of different linux hardware monitoring system.  • Adding Support for new printer models by changing the Native Driver Interface  • Supporting warranty features, for cost reduction and better serviceability  • Participate in meeting to enhance interface to support new features like wifi and  • Bluetooth connectivity  • Worked as maintainer for tools like defects, bugs and Share-points. Senior Software Developer ipolicy networks January 2008 to November 2008 Project: Intrusion Prevention Firewall.  Role: Senior Software Developer  Environment: Red Hat Linux (Kernel-24/2.6)/C/C++/ Rational Clearcase/ GDB/ Valgrind.    Description: IPF (Intrusion prevention Firewall) is an intermediate device that acts as a router.  The current existing IPF box support IP version 4 for transmitting the packet from one device to another device. Now since the network is growing so fast that we need to support more address.  So the project is for converting the IPv4 supported router to IPv6 supported router too, maens it  will be having an implementation of i.e dual stack. It will support both IPv4 code as well as IPv6  code.The major which undergoes changes is ICMPv6, DHCPv6, ND (Neighbour Discovery), Addressing and transition.    Responsibilities:  • Designing, planning, coding, unit testing  • Participated in review committee  • Given Demo on the feature and explained its use case after the completion  • Wrote several docs and handbooks for the tech support to use this feature.  • Designing the modules changes for addressing and icmpv6.  • Implementing the modules for addressing and icmpv6.  • Helped team in cross compiling various linux tools like split, bash shell to port to MIPS  platform using cross-compilation tool chain.  • Understand of different protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6, ICMPv6).  • Understanding of Tunneling concept in IPv6. Senior Software Developer ipolicy networks March 2007 to December 2007 Project: Enhancement of EAS messaging in Set-up box. Role: Senior Software Developer    Environment: Linux/Lynx OS/C/C++/ GNU-tool chain.    Description: EAS message is received by the electronic program guide from the thin client, all  recording session are stopped by the platform. Once the EAS message is complete, the electronic  program guide will restart the live TV buffer and any recordings that were interrupted by the EAS message.    Emergency alert system sends information to public safety and homeland security purpose.    It is designed to relay emergency information like dangerous weather conditions to the people  via broadcast stations.    To support EAS, headends must process a standardized alert message knows as SCTE-18.  Responsibilities:  • Co-ordinate with Clearcase team for creation of new VOB.  • Creation of new element in clearcase related to new files, copying the older files from existing product and modifying to suit the requirement of new product.  • Bring up of Bootloader and Board Support Package  • Fixing Compilation errors and environmental issues.  • Fixing Files.Product (Similar to Makefile) for the right files to be compiled for the turnon  product.  • Provisioning the build environment to build for Hardware Rom or Hardware Debug  version of firmware    with the same clearmake or dmake command based on which Vobs the user has selected in config spec.  • Scheduling meeting with teams in US, India, Singapore and Shanghai to identify the  buggy component and    assign to the correct team.  • Co-ordinating with Motorola teams for issues related to EAS message CR as Motorola  India was handling the Set-up box. Software Developer Infotech Enterprises Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2006 to December 2006 Germany    Project: ModRec Application  Role: Software Developer  Environment: C++, UML, Rational Rose 98i, QNX (Neutrino)    Description: Design and Development of ModRec Data Acquisition Module constituting the various data sources. Design and Development of ModRec Data Read-out Module for backing  up data to USB memory sticks, memory cards or through RS-232. Design and Development of ModRec Web Application to configure and monitor ModRec system and to display the current  status. Design and Development of ModRec Error Diagnostics Module to store, retrieve and view Error logs. Unit and Integration Testing of the ModRec system.  Responsibilities:  • Prepared SDS ( Software Design Documents).  • Generated class diagrams form using Rational Rose 98i for implementing the modules.  • Carrying Teleconference with customers.  • Creation of new element in clearcase related to new files added.  • Co-ordinated with UI and QT team to fix the Data Acquisition Module related issues.    Company: Infotech Enterprises Ltd, Hyderabad, India Software Developer Bombardier Transport Pittsburgh USA June 2005 to May 2006 Environment: C/Red Hat Linux/VSS/MIPS  Description: The hardware team developed a WLAN card as well GSM card module and integrate into a single Module. The software team involved in modifying the code for WLAN as  it is given in Netstat tool. Writing the code for Status API, Counter API, and Reset API.    And the testing of GSM connectivity using MC75 engine.    Reset the module to start modem receiving AT commands using control signals.    Initializing the modem using AT commands    Registering and communicating using AT commands.    And putting the modem in appropriate sleep mode using AT commands.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared SDS ( Software Design Documents)  • Implemented the modules.  • Debugging the code.  • Implemented the Socket Programming and testing of AT commands.  • Carrying Teleconference with customers. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Data Science University of Colorado Bachelor of Technology in Electronic & Communications Engineering in Electronic & Communications Engineering JMI University - Delhi, Delhi Skills C++, CODEWARRIOR, HTML, PERL, PYTHON, SQL Additional Information Technical Knowledge  Languages: C, C++, Python and SQL  Scripting Language: Bash Shell, C Shell, Perl script  Communication protocol: Socket programming TCP/IP, routing protocols  Source Control: ClearCase, Subversion  Protocols: TCP/IP, UDP, RIP, BGP, Network Elements, VFS  Operating Systems: UNIX, LINUX, HP-UX 11.31 RedHat Linux (kernel 2.4/2.6)    and Windows  Tools & Utilities: CodeWarrior IDE, Clear case, Perforce, Rational Clear case,  Debugging, techniques (GDB Debugger), Covert tool  (Code analysis), Valgrind, Ethereal, Efence  Web based applications: HTML, XHTML