Senior Application Developer Senior Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer, Data Analyst Orange, CA Programming, Database Design, Analytics, Critical Thinking    Over twenty years of demonstrated success in translating business requirements and unstructured business issues into data analytics and software development solutions  Extensive experience with software development and data analysis of healthcare and financial data  Extensive consulting experience  Proficiency in algorithms and numerical methods, database design and reporting  Excellent communication skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Application Developer Anthem - Costa Mesa, CA July 2003 to April 2019 • Primary job duties included database design and maintenance, data analysis of revenue trends and network performance, creation and modification of custom applications and reports    • Developed a file scheduling/processing automated tool, replacing manual handling and eliminating errors. MS Access application runs 24/7 checking pre-scheduled events such as a file arrival, processing the file and sending notifications if requested. All schedules are table-based and easy to create or change. The application uses SQL Server as a centralized data storage and produces reports in Excel, Word and pdf formats. This allowed the business unit to expand operations without hiring new members and to avoid fines for exceeding contractual processing time limits.    • Created software solutions to comply with government regulations to replace time consuming manual data handling with an automated solution. The program (Access, VBA) imported data from different sources, cleaned it up and combined to a single dataset to be sent to regulatory agencies. The data was also preserved in a separate SQL Server database for historical data mining and on-demand reports creation.    • Developed productivity metrics tools to generate reports, monitor individual productivity and keep historical data, enabling management to get reports within desired timeframe. This increased productivity of the business unit. Senior Software Developer Progressive America - Santa Ana, CA Developed specialized software (VB, VB.NET, Access, VBA) for appliance design and X-Ray imaging in orthodontic applications. Commercially released worldwide. Conducted user training. Senior Software Developer Automated Resource Management - Irvine, CA Developed and modified numerous enterprise-wide applications, including financial applications and complex project management systems. Designed and developed Document Management and Workflow, Imaging, Scanning modules for use in the leasing industry. Developed numerous custom applications and ad-hoc reports.  Senior Software Developer, R&D Language Force - Orange, CA Conducted research and created new technologies for machine translation to/from European and Asian languages.  Developed specialized high-level programming language and compiler to produce low-level rules for rule-driven expert system. Released new commercial product based on the new technology. Senior Engineer, Process Engineering Simulation Sciences - Brea, CA Sole responsibility for Electrolyte Technology software servicing more than 240 chemical, petrochemical and engineering companies worldwide.  Developed and maintained computer code and thermodynamical models, performed statistical data analysis.  Scientific Researcher Russian Academy of Sciences - Moscow, Russia Conducted research in thermodynamics of aqueous electrolytes. Performed theoretical and computer modeling. Designed scientific software, including new algorithms for phase equilibria calculations.   Over 30 papers published in peer reviewed scientific journals.  Education PhD in Physical Chemistry Russian Academy of Sciences - Moscow, RU MS in Chemical Engineering Moscow Institute of Chemical Technology - Moscow, RU BS in Computer Science Moscow Institute of Chemical Technology - Moscow, RU Skills Ms access (10+ years), Sql server (10+ years), Sql (10+ years), C# (1 year), Vb.net (2 years), Vba (10+ years), T-sql (10+ years), Java (2 years), Excel (10+ years), Analytics (10+ years), OOP (10+ years), Data Analysis (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Microsoft Certified Solutions Developer (MCSD) Assessments Problem Solving — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ysgvydc-b2rj-ajm Data Analysis — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6k1ai-oag4im6jns Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vh-2e9zaemdfedyl Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4kly-7l-ld4pdbdn Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming: VB, VBA, VB.Net, Java, C#, OOP, T-SQL  Applications: Excel, Access, VBA Programming  Databases: SQL Server, IBM DB2, MS Access  Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, Access Reporting