SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER, OWNER SENIOR <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span>, OWNER Alexandria, VA Quick-learning, technically strong, creative programmer seeking a challenging position that will put my technical agility to good use. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER, OWNER SiteTown, Inc. - Alexandria, VA May 2016 to Present Developing websites using MongoDB, Express, Angular and Node.js in conjunction with Bootstrap for responsive design. A demo version of one such site can be found at: https://demo.sitetown.dev/ From most pages within the demo site, replacing “demo” with “api” in the URL will display the underlying JSON data that the API loads from the MongoDB.  Developed Android apps that incorporate In-App Billing with validation and verification using a custom-developed RESTful API. Apps communicate with the API securely using message-level encryption with key exchange over SSL.  Ported the RESTful API from Java to Node.js which now runs as a Linux service. The API includes methods supporting a dynamic menu, In-App Billing, and license management. The dynamic menu provides a way to change menu items on all app installations with an update to the MySQL database. SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER MOSAIC - Cheverly, MD March 2005 to May 2016 Processed and created channel lineups for a Fortune 50 media company’s monthly bill mailing initiative. Created customized database-driven XMPie InDesign templates based on the customer’s design guidelines. Developed multiple applications (C#, SQL Server) that supported this project. One such application was used to edit and manipulate the items displayed on a given locality’s monthly mailing. Another would allow files to be processed efficiently using project-specific categorization rather than the more limited options on the XMPie administration website. In order to run jobs on the XMPie server, the application consumed web services provided by XMPie.  Developed and maintained an ASP.NET MVC website for a customer’s Intranet that allowed the customer’s call center agents to search for any letter MOSAIC had mailed on their behalf. Developed and maintained the SQL Server database that supported this system in addition to a number of applications and processes. Wrote the desktop application the warehouse team would run daily to determine the list of welcome kit recipients. Created the web services that collected additional welcome kit requests entered by call center agents on the MVC website.  Developed user interface for a storefront solution (JavaScript, Classic ASP) that allowed customers to select chapters for their own customized books. Wrote web services (ASP.NET, C#) that transferred the necessary configuration data to the MOSAIC printing plant when an order was placed. Created a custom application (Objective-C, AppleScript) that generated and ran AppleScript code that manipulated the selected InDesign chapter files.  Managed and administered websites for multiple customers on three storefront platforms. Over the years, various storefront platforms were used to support different customer needs. Most websites were run on ASP.NET-based solutions. There were a few Classic ASP websites that remained in operation due to the level of customization in each customer’s workflow. Developed a number of AspDotNetStorefront XmlPackages that permitted several customers to move from the older Classic ASP storefront platform to AspDotNetStorefront while maintaining storefront customizations.  Integrated applications and websites for internal use and customer projects with third-party (Authorize.Net, UPS, FedEx) and custom APIs. Developed RESTful APIs to customize software used in-house using the ASP.NET Web API framework. SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER, OWNER SiteTown, Inc. - Alexandria, VA July 2004 to March 2005 Conceived and developed SiteSecurity, a custom membership system that allowed user access control on a group level and single sign-in across multiple servers. Written as a VB COM object that used SQL Server as the membership database.  Developed all websites and utilities that supported SiteSecurity from the custom website (integrated with Authorize.Net API) to the license creation/renewal processes which sent license keys to customers upon demo request or purchase.  Developed database-driven websites using ASP.NET (C#), SQL Server, FormsAuthentication and custom user controls. SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Zerone, Inc. (United States Postal Service) - Washington, DC June 2002 to June 2004 Developed and maintained web applications to support the deployment of the upgraded USPS point-of-sales network using ASP, Visual Basic, SQL, VBScript and Oracle.  Managed and maintained online training courses used throughout the organization. Worked closely with graphic designer and content provider to deliver new courses in a timely fashion. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER CAIS Internet/Ardent Communications - McLean, VA January 2000 to October 2001 Migrated database-driven applications from Access to Oracle including a system that supported corporate billing.  Increased billing efficiency and accuracy with a system I developed that automatically collected product usage and enabled accounting staff to view real-time usage information.  Improved performance of internal reporting systems by conversion from existing Classic ASP to rewritten efficient code compiled as Visual Basic COM objects. Responsible for maintenance and improvement of the custom built customer management system that was used internally (Classic ASP). SOFTWARE DEVELOPER, OWNER SiteTown, Inc. - Alexandria, VA March 1999 to December 1999 Continued to support the same projects and work with the same team at the Army I worked with while at CYIOS. A different company won the project contract on renewal which then contracted with me as a 1099 contractor. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER CYIOS Corporation (United States Army) - Washington, DC April 1998 to February 1999 Re-engineered web-based email application from Access to SQL Server with Classic ASP and Visual Basic COM objects running within Microsoft Transaction Server.  Created personnel management program to track, modify, add, and delete officers’ position and rank using Classic ASP and SQL Server.  Developed applications for the US Army’s Intranet using Classic ASP, JavaScript, Flash, SQL, and Microsoft Site Server.  Worked directly with Microsoft developer to integrate user certificates into the LDAP directory provided by Microsoft MCIS, which we had deployed at the client’s site. Education BS in Chemical Engineering Virginia Tech - Blacksburg, VA August 1991 to May 1996 Skills Microsoft Classic ASP (10+ years), ASP.NET (10+ years), InDesign (5 years), Objective-C (2 years), SQL (10+ years), JavaScript (10+ years), JQuery (5 years), C# (10+ years), .NET (10+ years), JSON (5 years), HTML (10+ years), Microsoft IIS (10+ years), jQuery (5 years), Web Development (10+ years), Java (3 years), Software Development (10+ years), Microsoft SQL Server (10+ years), Android, MySQL, ASP Links https://demo.sitetown.dev/ Certifications/Licenses Scrum Certification for Web Developer April 2019 to Present International Scrum Institute Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  JavaScript, JQuery, ASP.NET/.NET 4.7, C# 7, ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web API, Java (Android/Web/Apple), Objective-C, AppleScript, SSL/TLS, SQL, ASP, Visual Basic, VBScript, JSON, XML, Visual Studio, SQL Server, IIS, MySQL, Glassfish 4, Apache 2, Android Studio, Xcode, XMPie, AspDotNetStorefront, Adobe InDesign, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator