Application Delivery Manager Application Delivery Manager Retail assistant, stylist Aloha, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Delivery Manager Bloodworks Northwest - Bellevue, WA June 2014 to October 2018 Provided leadership, coaching, mentorship, and supervision to software developers and IT business analysts. This included custom application development as well as maintenance, upgrades and integrations with off-the-shelf applications such as Microsoft GP.     Software development manager for a small team of C# and SQL programmers creating internal applications.     Introduced agile methodologies into a purely waterfall environment. This accelerated software releases to production from 18 months to every 3-4 months.     Used continuous improvement concepts to incrementally improve the software development life cycle (SDLC)     Implemented Team Foundation Server (TFS) for tracking and prioritization of backlog items and breakdown of tasks into a Kanban board. This provided source code storage, process standardization, and traceable code reviews.     Guided team in creating coding standards and the means to comply with them.     Hiring manager for new team members.     Performed project manager duties for a core internal application.     Met regularly with end users to define user stories and create a product backlog.     Worked with developers to estimate story points so that the sprint backlog could be defined in order to create project schedules, etc.     SharePoint administrator. Team Foundation Server (TFS) administrator [this is the on-premise version of Visual Studio Online (VSO) / Azure DevOps]. Backup for SQL Server 2014 administration. Software Consultant Monty Nail Consulting - Redmond, WA July 2013 to June 2014 Coach and mentor for programmers migrating and rewriting a Laboratory Information System from another computer language.      Taught legacy programmers how to use the C# programming language.     Met regularly with developers as they upgraded their skills and learned about new tools and techniques. Staff were held accountable for meeting deadlines and creating the required documentation for an FDA regulated environment.     Automated leadership dashboards by pulling data from multiple databases into Excel using Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) and published metrics to SharePoint.      Saved a full day’s manual labor by creating a push-button solution for KPI reporting. This was for an internal group within a large software organization. Developer Evangelist Lead Compucom @ Microsoft - Redmond, WA July 2009 to June 2013 Onsite manager for team of 7 software developers/architects/designers who were evangelizing emerging Microsoft technologies such as Windows 8, Windows Phone 8, and Azure for the App Builder / Generation App program and for the Microsoft Platform Ready program.      Used analytical skills to measure team success and provided communication to Microsoft management.      Hands-on contributor working as a coach with all level of developers from students to the experienced at medium-sized companies. Software Consultant Monty Nail Consulting - Redmond, WA April 2008 to July 2009 Worked directly with client - from defining project scope, creating technical specifications, and generating accurate estimates to writing user documentation.     Agile development using C# and Visual Basic (VB).NET including WPF (Windows Presentation Foundation); ADO.NET work against both SQL Server 2005 and Access 2007; Access report writing. Software Developer Leverance - Woodinville, WA July 2007 to April 2008 Maintained and enhanced software for land developers using C#; WinForms with OneClick smart-client deployment; Windows Services; and SQL Server.     Created custom conversion programs for Access and Excel workbook conversion to SQL Server. Partner Technical Consultant Volt @ Microsoft - Issaquah, WA December 2006 to July 2007 Pro-actively mentored newer members of the team.     Provided developer support and consulting for Microsoft’s Independent Software Developer (ISV) partners.      Tier one contact for small software companies with problems related to Microsoft technologies or requesting training as part of their MS Partner benefits.     Moderated official MSDN forum for Vista Application Compatibility. Software Developer / Team Leader CFOsoft, LLC - Kent, WA June 2005 to November 2006 Managed a small team in a project to integrate a legacy real estate accounting system with Microsoft Small Business Accounting.     Worked with management to develop the strategy for the technical design of a new application.     Designed and implemented forecast modeling application through the complete SDLC using Visual Studio Tools for Office (VSTO / Excel), C# (80%) and VB.NET (20%).      This included requirements gathering with management to determine features; project duration estimations; internal demos; and user training. Product was broken into separate assemblies including Excel layer; business class library; and WinForms UI components.     Led C#/XLM client-side web service integration with the same legacy product. Education Bachelor of Science Portland State University - Portland, OR Project Management Bellevue College Skills .net (10+ years), C# (10+ years), Sql (10+ years), Sql server (10+ years), Management (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), VBA (10+ years), Project Management (4 years), Software Development, NET Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/montynail Additional Information Technical Skills  * Past programming skills: .NET, C#, Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), T-SQL, Excel/VBA  * Some experience in the following: Windows Azure; SQL Server 2014 administration; Team Foundation Server (TFS) administration; SharePoint site administration; Windows Phone mobile app development  • Member of Toastmasters