Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - CBS Interactive Thousand Oaks, CA Over 6 years of application development experience across different platforms and equal expertise to handle the project and comprehend the developer and stakeholder perspective. Work Experience Software Developer CBS Interactive - Burbank, CA January 2018 to Present • CBS All Access (Roku Application)  - Overseeing the development of the Roku platform of CBS All Access application used by over a million subscribers.  - Fixed complex issues like performance improvement, memory utilization for app to run smoothly on different Roku device. Integrated tracking and ad frameworks like Convivia, Omniture, Innovid, Spotx, Taplytics.  - The application supports on-demand video playback and live streaming of all the CBS Channels.  - Application is currently in the USA and Canada, upcoming in Australia Roku app store. For project reference here is the link https://channelstore.roku.com/en-gb/details/31440/cbs-all-access. Senior Software Developer Ericsson - Santa Clara, CA March 2017 to December 2017 • UDN Dashboard (Web Application)  - Developed a graphic Dashboard of data traffic generated by vender and service provider in the UDN Project.  - Lead the team of 5 and used Agile methodology for project management and git for version control.  - Built using HTML5/CSS3/ ReactJS for front-end and NodeJS/SQLite for back-end.  - Used JS libraries like D3.js, P5.js, Rechart.js for graphics, webpack and amazon web server for deployment. Back-end Developer Lead Ferret Inc - Woodland Hills, CA June 2016 to March 2017 • Leadferret Search Wizard (Web Application)  - Contribute to the successful launch of the search wizard tool which increased the web traffic by 50% on the website.  - Created new API services with improved performance and load balancing techniques for high data requests.  - Tool includes large amount of data management (over 100 million records) and filtrations functionality for data retrieval from the website.  - Used the Laravel PHP Framework at the back-end and AngularJS/Bootstrap on the front-end with service like AWS, Git and pusher. For project reference here is the link https://leadferret.com/.  • Leadferret API  - Develop REST API for the clients to directly access the data from our database services Includes dynamic search and social verification(verifies the authenticity of individual lead) of the data retrieved by the user.  - Made using the Laravel Framework and deployed on AWS server. Application Developer Pixel Creation - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2014 to June 2015 • Ballutheballabazz(Web and Mobile Application)  - Design, develop, test and publish an gaming application, played on live cricket match scores using the predefined set of rules and functionalities in the application.  - Used scraping technique to pull the live data from score board website.  - Developed using PHP CodeIgniter framework at the back-end and Cordova technology for creating Hybrid mobile application and python for scraping. Independent Projects • Java Editor - It is a software that serves as a flexible platform to write java program, made using java.  • Lukin - It is an android based project using Cordova Technology and PHP, MySQL on the server-side.  • Movie Analysis - Data warehouse project, using Pentaho for data integration and Tableau for BI Education Masters of Computer Science in Computer Science California Lutheran University November 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2014 Diploma in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Maharashtra State Board of Technical Education June 2011 Skills Git, JAVASCRIPT, REACTJS, PHP, LARAVEL, PYTHON, CORDOVA, HTML5, SQL, JAVA, jQuery, AJAX, MySQL, HTML 5, CSS Additional Information SKILLS: ReactJS, NodeJS, HTML5/CSS4, Laravel PHP, ES6, Angular, React Native, Cordova, SQL, Python, BrightScript, Java, Ajax, JQuery, JavaScript, GIT.