Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer Scottsdale, AZ Experienced and innovative IT professional skilled in the design, development, maintenance, and support of business applications and systems.    TECHNOLOGIES  Tools  • Java Enterprise, JQuery, C# .NET, Microsoft Dynamics CRM, JavaScript, Basic, Scripting, IBM Rational, UML, PowerBuilder  Environments  • Tomcat, Linux, Windows Server, IIS, IBM WebSphere, Spring, Tortoise SVN, RabbitMQ, Veracode  Data  • Oracle, MySQL, Microsoft SQL, FetchXML, SAP and mainframe integration tools, JDBC Work Experience Senior Software Developer HealthBI 2016 to Present • Enhance and support the company's primary Web software system which models healthcare populations and gap management, interfacing healthcare providers and insurers. Built in Java Enterprise and Tomcat.  • Designed and developed a multi-threaded system to process incoming data files. File processing time was reduced 5 to 6 times in most cases.  • Enhanced the user interface for the Document Submission system to allow users to upload and combine multiple document files together for a single submission. Designed and developed the server process where the user-uploaded documents are combined as necessary, converted to PDF format, packaged along with reporting information, and transmitted via FTP to the consumer.  • Primary development team troubleshooter for challenging production issues. Systems Analyst/ Developer Avnet, Inc 1997 to 2016 • Developed and supported several Intranet applications for the Corporate Services group, using Java Enterprise with IBM WebSphere and other containers. Involved in the development of the Avnet initial Corporate Architectures/API for Java.  • Designed, developed, and supported the division's commission system in Microsoft .Net and Oracle servicing about 1,400 business users. Responsible for all aspects of the application: gathering business requirements, analysis and design, development, deployment, documentation, and daily user support.  • Involved in the design and development of the Case Management system, and supported and enhanced it as needed. Built in Microsoft Dynamics CRM the system supported 20-40 Users from several groups. Education Master of Business Administration in International Management Arizona State University September 2015 Skills Java, Linux, C#, Dynamics CRM Links http://LinkedIn.com/in/Frederick-McAninch-45b752122