Senior Mobile Developer Senior Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Mobile Developer - AT&T Inc Seattle, WA * 10+ years of extensive mobile (iOS, Android & Hybrid) application development experience with strong knowledge of various programming languages including Swift, Objective-C, JavaScript and XAMARIN.  * Specialized in delivering mobile apps and enterprise class software solutions for big systems.  * Working experience with multiple Agile/Scrum/Waterfall application development projects.  * Extensively used XML, JSON parsing.  * Worked on prevention for SQLITE injection, Side Channel Data Leakage, SSL implementation, Man in the Middle Attack.  * Proficient in Implementing Google Analytics for tracking in IOS and Android application.  * Experienced in Compression/Decompression, Encryption/Decryption Framework  * Proficient in providing Web Services, Database Management, Locations Services, Audio, Graphics and Animation capabilities in Applications. Through understanding COCOA design patterns, MVC architecture and other concepts like Delegation and Protocols.  * Experienced in developing hybrid mobile applications using JQuery Mobile, Ionic 2 & 3, Angular 2, Cordova Plugin, HTML5/CSS3 and JavaScript  * Remarkable experience with iPhone and iPad application development using iPhone SDK, Cocoa, Objective-C and Xcode.  * Experienced in using various Databases, such as SQLite and Core Data.  * Experience with Apple Push Notification Service APNS Certificate and Multi factor Authentication.  * Strong understanding and solid experience with version control systems, namely GIT Repo and SVN.  * Strong Understanding of the iOS Provisioning Portal, Obtaining Development Certificate and Installing Development Provisioning Profiles.  * Experienced in implementing iBeacon (Bluetooth Low Energy).  * Remarkable experience of using numerous iOS frameworks including Core Foundation, Core Data, Core Location, UIKit, Map Kit, Media Player, Event Kit, Core Graphics, Bluetooth, Grand Central Dispatch, AV Foundation, AF Networking, CF Network, Map Kit, Security, Social Framework and Touch ID.  * Sole developer for an iOS app in Swift for the iPad called Lightning and Luna for the Brilliant Star kids magazine. Currently rebuilding it as a React Native app.  * Started out working in Content Strategy and then Information Architecture, by auditing web content, using card sorts and eventually building a mental model from UX Research (Journal Analysis).  * Helped to maintain and extend the bahai.us website using Git, Javascript and a Python/Django back end. Now assisting the team with React.js Development.  * Skilled with Version Control like Git, Subversion, AccuRev and Maven.  * Experience in analytical knowledge on debugging and fixing defects. Work Experience Senior Mobile Developer AT&T Inc - Dallas, TX August 2016 to Present Description:  AT&T Inc. is an American multinational conglomerate holding company headquartered at Whitacre Tower in Downtown Dallas, Texas. AT&T is the world's largest telecommunications company. AT&T is also the second largest provider of mobile telephone services and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States.    Responsibilities:  * Architected a customized network protocol used by client applications including Android, iOS and Windows Phone 7 to communicate with cloud architectures.  * Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.  * Developed applications using a combination of Java with Android SDK, and Java.  * Design hybrid mobile app for Android and iOS using Ionic, Cordova, AngularJS.  * Developed mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library.  * Developed Android Mobile applications with Xamarin Studio in C#, .Net, using Xcode in Swift.  * Created RESTful API for Web Application and Hybrid Application (Routing, Controllers, Factories, Seeder and Testing) using Laravel, Lumen, Virtual Box and Vagrant.  * Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  * Developed iOS application and networking API features for iOS using Xcode, Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, iOS SDK and Core Data.  * Developed service layer using Spring MVC framework.  * Involved in implementing the application for mobile devices (Iphone, iPad).  * Developed a complex mobile app using React Native with Google Firebase as a backend.  * Created custom mobile applications using native technologies as per client specifications.  * Experience implementing Web Services using Apache CXF, SOAP, WSDL, and REST interfaces in Java.  * Used Web logic Server as application server and made it in cluster.  * Lead project to convert J2EE code repository from Sub Version (SVN) to GIT.  * Developed automated test scripts using Selenium Web Driver for web applications and cloud based applications like Salesforce.com, Oracle application and AWS (Amazon Web Services).  * Used services, Alert tasks and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  * Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, and JavaScript.  * Used Maven to build and run the Selenium automation framework. Configured Maven for Java automation projects and developed Maven Project Object Model (POM.xml).  * Involved in developing hybrid mobile applications in iOS and Android development, Using Javascript, and Phonegap.  * Develop mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library.  * Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.    ENVIRONMENT: MOBILE, ANDROID, IOS, WINDOWS, BLACKBERRY, SPRING, HIBERNATE, ORACLE, APACHE, CXF, REST, JSON, SOAP. Senior Mobile Developer Braintree Payments - Chicago, IL March 2013 to July 2016 Description:  Braintree Payments Braintree's commerce infrastructure tools enable secure sharing of payment data between partners to help create new distribution channels and make these experiences possible. Consumer purchases product or service on partner platform.    Responsibilities:  * Design, development, testing and implementation of WEB applications using Sencha touch framework.  * Developed mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library.  * Wrote and integrated custom Cordova plugins, OAuth and GPS using native code, Objective C and Android Studio, Java.  * Used BlackBerry JME JDE to test software on the device.  * Configured Struts, Hibernate framework with Spring MVC.  * Implemented JBOSS Cache provider with Hibernate second-level cache for clustered caching using cache factory interfaces.  * Involved in creating, publishing and consuming Web Services using JAX-RS API and other technologies like HTTP and REST.  * Worked closely with onsite team to take requirement and build mobile cross platform application for Android and iOS in Appcelerator cross platform.  * Mainly responsible for developing Restful API using spring framework. Developed different controllers that return the response both in JSON and XML based on the request type.  * Developed backend web services using NodeJS and stored dependencies using NPM.  * Debugging and problem-solving skills with Eclipse, Android Studio, IntelliJ IDEA, and RAD.  * Managed Android mobile app programming and development in a multicultural environment with both on-site and off-shore team members, working independently and with the team.  * Managed WebLogic Server Clusters having 15 managed Servers on Cluster of Machines.  * Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the system using Ruby scripts.  * Developed .NET components using C# and involved in the deployment of those components.  * Created ASP.NET User Controls and Master pages to reduce the complexity of user interface design and to have a common look and feel.  * Design and Develop programs in C++ to integrate as per the users requirements.  * Worked on a native android application with the same functionality is developed in Java using Eclipse, Android SDK, HTML, jQuery Mobile, CSS, PhoneGap.  * Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework.  * Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online service with Flash/Flex.  * Designed and developed multi-protocol telecom Single-Page Architecture application using Node.js, Express and Jade on the backend.  * Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery.  * Developed prototypes using Flex, ActionScript, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java.  * Tested applications prior to final review to ensure that all issues were resolved in the most efficient manner.  * Developed Coding the presentation layer using WPF and Silverlight.    ENVIRONMENT: MOBILE, ANDROID, IOS, WINDOWS, ORACLE, APACHE, CXF, REST, JSON, SERVICES, ECLIPSE, WEBLOGIC, GIT, GITHUB, SELENIUM, JSP, SERVLETS. Mobile Developer ANTHEM INC - Indianapolis, IN November 2011 to February 2013 Description:  Anthem, Inc. is an American health insurance company founded in the 1940s, prior to 2014 known as WellPoint, Inc. It is the largest for-profit managed health care company in the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in development of business domain concepts into Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Component Diagrams and Implementation Diagrams.  * Interacted with the stake-holders and gather requirements and business artifacts based on Agile SCRUM methodology.  * Provided dedicated support and timely issue resolution to clients following successful app launch.  * Contributed with native apps (IOS) written in Objective-C.  * Designed and developed based on the work data flow principle called SQL lite.  * Developed the App using Cocoa touch frameworks on UIKit.  * Transformed wire frames into HTML and iOS prototypes.  * Developed HTML views with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.  * Utilized XML and JSON to parse, display and navigate through large quantities of data.  * Developed Navigation between views was mixture of using UI Navigation Controller.  * Made use of Categories to extend the functionality of Objective C classes.  * Used continuous integration for test automation.  * Assisted with bug fixes and support for all iOS applications. Involved in full life cycle for developing the system.  * Developed web pages by using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  * Used Eclipse to develop source code and debug the application.  * Built a custom cross-platform architecture using Java, Spring Core/MVC, and Hibernate.  * Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications internal and third party components using SOAP and REST services using Apache-CXF.  * Configured Queues and Topics as part of application integration and defined Camel routing between queues/topics.  * Reviewed the XML logical data model and developed XML schema XSD to validate the model and used JAX-B for Xml-Java Mapping and XML-XSLT conversion.  * Developed and published web-services using WSDL, SOAP and XML, JAX-B based on top-down and bottom-up approaches.  * Experience in pre-testing the Web-Service calls with SOAP UI using end-points.  * Coordinated Unit Testing by JUnit, Easy Mock, Integration and User Acceptance Testing and developed test cases for bean components.  * Used Subversion for maintaining the component and for release and version management. And JIRA for defect tracking.  * Maven tool has been used for the build and deploy procedure scripts in UNIX, Linux and Windows environment using Hudson.    ENVIRONMENT: IOS, ANDROOID, OBJECTIVE-C, XCODE, COCOA FRAMEWORK, WEB SERVICES FRAMEWORKS, AV FOUNDATION, XML, CORE DATA, SQLITE. Software Developer The Home Depot Inc - Atlanta, GA April 2009 to October 2011 Description:  The Home Depot Inc. or Home Depot is an American home improvement supplies retailing company that sells tools, construction products, and services.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in all the phases of the project development - requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, coding, testing and debugging.  * Implemented MVC architecture by using Struts to send and receive the data from front-end to business layer. Used apache struts to develop the web-based components and implemented DAO.  * Responsible for writing Struts Action classes.  * Implemented Struts framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  * Leveraged struts-validations, struts-beans tag libraries. Used struts ActionServlet to route the request to corresponding Action Classes. Developed Action forms, Action classes using Struts framework to handle user requests and Implemented Struts Bean Tags, Logical Tags and Display Tags in JSP.  * Participated in agile sprint planning, sprint review, sprint retrospective, daily scrum meetings to deliver quality code.  * Involved in developing DAO layer using JDBC.  * Involved in developing Stateless and Stateful session beans using EJB.  * Implemented the Design Patterns like Session Façade, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Service Locator and Data Access Object (DAO).  * Used Serena PVCS for version control management and consistently produced high quality code through disciplined and rigorous unit testing.  * Used WebLogic Application Server for building, testing and deploying application locally.  * Involved in bug fixes, enhancements and code refactoring.    ENVIRONMENT: JAVASCRIPT, NODE.JS, HTML, CSS, JAVA, SPRING, WEBLOGIC AND HIBERNATE. Software Developer AMEX - New York, NY July 2007 to March 2009 Description:  The American Express Company, also known as Amex, is an American multinational financial services corporation headquartered in Three World Financial Center in New York City. The company was founded in 1850, and is one of the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The company is best known for its credit card, charge card and traveler's check businesses.    Responsibilities:  * Followed Scrum Incremental process of Agile Software Development methodology, also involved in creating stories in JIRA.  * Implemented SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and consumed JAX-WS web services using Apache CXF framework with SOAP messages for transferring ticket from UET to SCR.  * Implemented message queue using Apache ActiveMQ to hold payload until the SCR consumes the message.  * Wrote several restful websevice using Restlet framework andn SOAP webserivce with TOP DOWN approach.  * Developed common XML schema's (XSD) as client contracts used to publish Top Down approach based Web Services  * Configured routes in Apache Camel using Blueprint xml for routing messages between end points.  * Used JAXB marshall/unmarshall XML by taking XML schema and converting to class and reading XML files to create the instances of the class.  * Used SOAP-UI to test the SOAP Web Services using WSDL.  * Written build scripts for multi-project build using Gradle.  * Written Gradle script to create OSGI bundles.    ENVIRONMENT: HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, MERCURIAL, MS SQL SERVER. Education Bachelor's Skills Xcode, Android, Javascript, Swift, Objective C