Senior Java Full Stack Developer Senior Java Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Full Stack Developer - Aflac San Francisco, CA Work Experience Senior Java Full Stack Developer Aflac - Columbus, GA January 2017 to Present Developed the application using Spring Web MVC and spring web flow architecture.  ? Developed JSfP custom Tag libraries, and associated support in the Action Servlet, that assists in creating interactive form-based applications, which is the one of the primary area of functionality using Spring Framework.  ? Developed the application using Spring Web MVC and other components of the Spring Framework, the controller being Spring Core Dispatcher Servlet.  ? Developed front end for Schedule Inefficiency using JSP/Servlets.  ? Performed Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules.  ? Implemented application prototype using JSP, Servlets, NetBeans, proxy, abstract, JDBC, nginx and to give the presentation.  ? Used JDBC for data access from Oracle tables.  ? Used Angular 6 to standardize web application structure and responsive using Bootstrap and provide a future template for data binding.  ? Used solid principles Eclipse IDE to develop the application.  ? Application was deployed on WebSphere Application Server  ? Designed and implemented the User Interface using HTML5, Node, ExpressJS, React, Redux, CSS3, Thymeleaf, JavaScript, JSP, AJAX, GraphQL and factory MySQL.  ? Worked on domain driven design to develop application.  ? Implemented latest HTML5 and CSS3 features like creating various effects, shadings, Visual Studio, 2D/3D animations, shapes, handling multimedia files and many others.  ? Used various features in AngularJS like data binding, routing, custom filters, custom directives to meet various customized requirements.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with the Hibernate Criteria and spring security features using AOP Interceptors for authentication.  ? Configured using Hibernate for the Database connection, SOA, IntelliJ, CVS, JWT and Hibernate Query language (HQL) to add and retrieve information from the database.  ? Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  ? Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  ? Actively involved in providing the technical support of the application by troubleshooting and resolving the issues.  ? Resolved the issues for the pages with low traffic and high load time. This directly increased traffic & sales; which decreased maintenance and capital expenditures for department.  ? Requirement gathering, Design Analysis and Code development.  ? Interacted with the stake-holders and gather requirements and business artifacts based on Agile SCRUM methodology.  ? Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications internal and third-party components using SOAP and REST services using Axis2, Kubernetes, Apache-CXF  ? Developed and published web-services using Babel, UglifyJS, JSLint WSDL, JPA, Mockito, JMeter, EasyMock, SonarQube, Swagger, Enzyme, Sublime Text, SOAP and XML, JAX-B based on top-down and bottom-up approaches.  ? Maven tool has been used for the build and deploy procedure scripts in UNIX, Linux and Windows environment.  ? Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, and testing of the project.  ? Used Spring Boot to create stand-alone spring applications.  ? Used Postman & Eclipse Integrated Development Environment for coding, debugging and testing the application modules.  ? Involved in developing of presentation layer for the application modules using Composite, AngularJS/2, ECS, Toplink, XHTML, HTML5, jQuery, AJAX and CSS.  ? Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  ? Knowledge in creation of Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  ? Used c# with combination of Entity framework and CSLA Architecture to develop the product.  ? Integrated three third-party API's using behavioral, C#, JavaScript, Protactor and PowerShell scripts.  ? Configured and monitored numerous Cassandra, SSO, SSL, NoSQL instances  ? Deployment of micro services via AWS Beanstalk and Lambda  ? Worked on DAO's to pull the data from the source Databases and converted into JSON formats and then published into Kafka Streams.  ? Worked on gang of four technologies to develop an application.  ? Implemented a single responsibility design Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's.  ? Reviewed the XML logical data model and developed XML schema XSD to validate the model and used JAX-B for Xml-Java Mapping, Jasmine and XML-XSLT conversion.  ? Extensively followed Test Driven Development to implement application business logic, work flow process and integration of application modules.  ? Developer mobile applications using react native, iOS, Android, Kotlin, Swift.  ? Followed Pair Programming to analysis, design, development, Integration, Testing and deploy the applications.    Technology Used: Java, Spring boot, MySQL, Spring Modules, DAO, MVC, Swagger, AOP, ORM data, Thymeleaf, JPA, Toplink, Hibernate, Hibernate Critieras, JavaScript, Angular 2+, React, Redux, HTML5, CSS , AJAX, bootstrap, NodeJS, ExpressJS. Senior Java Developer Concentrix - Greenville, SC March 2015 to December 2016 Designed and prepared custom tags on JSF layer and prepared framework classes for Managed Beans interacting with the Hibernate.  ? Built on Java/J2ee technology, Enriched with multiple soap, rest web service and supports multiple Bank of America middleware teams.  ? Developed server-side services using Java, spring, Web Services (SOAP, RESTful, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RPC).  ? Implemented business layer using Core java, Ibatis, Spring Beans using dependency injection, spring annotations.  ? Implemented Micro Services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, and Spring Microservices and enabled discovery using Netflix Eureka Server.  ? Used S3 buckets to manage document management and RDS to host database.  ? Created customized AMIs based on already existing AWS EC2 instances by using create image functionality, hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  ? Optimized the full text search function by connecting to NoSQL DB like MongoDB and Elastic search.  ? Implemented MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes and replication.  ? Used Rabbit MQ queues for implementation of multi-threaded synchronization processes using activemq, JMS queues for consumption requests.  ? Used Micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and MQ and leveraging AWS to build, test and deploy micro services.  ? Involved in design and development of UI component, using frameworks AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  ? Experienced in using Kafka as a distributed publisher-subscriber messaging system.  ? Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Web Services and Legacy Systems using SOAP, and REST and added security to SOAP through WS Security.  ? Developed the application using Spring Web MVC and spring web flow architecture.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with the Hibernate and spring security features using AOP Interceptors for authentication.  ? Configured using Hibernate for the Database connection and Hibernate JQuery language (HQL) to add and retrieve information from the database.  ? Extensively worked on N-tier architecture systems with application system development using Core Java concepts like Multithreading, Collection API, Generics, Annotations and Reflection API.  ? Developed server side utilities using J2EE technologies like servlets, JDBC and JSP and J2EE patterns like Singleton, DAO.  ? Developed User Interfaces using HTML, JQuery, Swing, CSS, AJAX, Angular Js, JSF and Rich Faces based GUI Components.  ? Used Spring Security for Authentication and authorization extensively.  ? Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide automated builds based on polling the GIT source control system.  ? Consumed REST based micro services with Rest Template based on RESTful APIs.  ? Used Docker for possible to production to the development environment to fast possible for interactive use.  ? Created web services using spring, Rest Controller to return JSON to the frontend.  ? Used MAVEN building tool for creating EAR file to be deployed in the application servers, it is also used for Dependency management of code in the application.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking issue tracking and project management.  ? Involved in writing the test cases for the application using JUnit.  ? Automation of existing manual test cases using PowerShell and C#.  ? Used C# with combination of Entity framework and MVC architecture to develop the applications.  ? Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that must communicate with a server.  ? Created multi-layered application framework using Java, J2EE technologies.  ? Developed C++, SOAP web services on UNIX and Linux platforms using soap.  ? Designed, developed and implemented new classes and objects in C++ for handling various applications.  ? Developed the RESTful web services, by using Spring Framework and MVC pattern, for Business logic that is reusable and that can be consumed for front-end applications.  ? Developed Multithread Application using with Thread Pool and Concurrent Executors.  ? Developed Business logic with the help of spring and Data Access was implemented by using Hibernate.  ? Handled the security and Authorization by Spring Security and OAuth authentication Protocol.  ? Worked on Ionic, Cordova to developed mobile application.  ? Involved in developing Server-side EJB components and wrote session beans to perform the business logic.    Technology Used: Java, Spring boot, Spring Modules, Ibatis, DAO, MVC, Securities, AOP, ORM data, Thymeleaf, JPA, Toplink, Hibernate, Hibernate Critieras, JavaScript, Angular 2+, React, Redux, HTML5, CSS , AJAX, bootstrap, NodeJS, ExpressJS.. Java Developer Trek Bicycle Corporation - Waterloo, WI November 2013 to February 2015 Developed user interface using JSP, Mybatis, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Added user validations and user permissions by using the Node.js.  ? Involved in analyzing the requirements and participated in discussions with business analysts.  ? Involved in developing Hibernate DAO classes, mapping files for persistence layer.  ? Developed various helper classes needed following core java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  ? Implement API Service using Apache Camel.  ? Developed cloud native microservices using spring cloud and Spring Boot.  ? Involved in writing HQL and SQL Queries for Oracle database.  ? Utilized custom logging framework for Mule ESB application.  ? Built the application using Test driven development approach.  ? Used JSF-ICE faces framework for creating the managed bean and controllers.  ? Used Web Services like SOAP, WSDL, ANT, UDDI and JAX-WS programming model.  ? Used mule ESB for routing, filtering and aggregate message between application based on content and rules.  ? Used SOAP, WSDL message for the communication and used Soap-UI Client for functional testing of the web services.  ? Worked on JIRA for issue and bug tracking and Eclipse for the development environment.  ? Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java Bean classes.  ? Patching the Linux servers on all the environments (Prod, Pre-Prod and Testing) of Customer.  ? Developed new C++ encapsulation wrapper classes for OCCI classes.  ? Involved in writing optimization techniques for more accuracy of Mac in C and C++ routines and Oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Written the integration test to execute full systems using the Groovy.  ? Prepared automation scripts and developed PostgreSQL database architecture.  ? Used Selenium Web Driver to provide more flexibility in automating test cases.  ? Created REST Web Services for the management of data using JAX-RS.  ? Used Tomcat Application server for live services.  ? Configure JIRA to set up a trusted communication between JIRA and Confluence.  ? Used Log4j to set up debugging and error information for production support.  ? Used Junit for unit testing and Jenkins for automated build and deploy process.  ? Developed applications on ios, android.  ? Involved in bug fixing during the System testing, Joint System testing and User acceptance testing.    Technology Used: Java, Spring, Mybatis, Struts,JSF,JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, bootstrap, NodeJS, ExpressJS, Db2, Sql, Pl/SQL, MS SQL Server, Rest, XML, Apache CXF, Eclipse, weblogic. Software Developer Kaiser Permanente - Oakland, CA May 2011 to October 2013 Analysis, design and development of Application based on J2EE using Spring and Hibernate.  ? Hibernate was used for Object Relational mapping with Oracle database.  ? Involved in developing the user interface using Struts.  ? Worked on the Web Services using SOAP and Restful web services.  ? Used SVN configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  ? Developed the UI Screens using JSP, JSF, ANT, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML and Angular Where we perform the client-side validation.  ? Developed the classes for Unit Testing.  ? Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier [JDBC] of the application.  ? Experienced in using the agile methodology for developing application and Followed Agile Methodologies to implement code and have strong knowledge with development in Agile environment.  ? Experience in different agile methodologies like Test Driven Development, Scrum, Waterfall.    Technologies Used: Java, Spring, Struts, JDBC, Struts, JSF, JSP, Servlets, JavaScrip, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, bootstrap. Software Developer Fannie - Mae, WA July 2009 to April 2011 Project: Worked on the development of backend of the application HomePath by Fannie Mae.    ? Updated GUI to allow users with specified roles to set restriction;  ? Updated GUI to allow users with specified roles to access and update contact information.  ? Updated GUI to note when the person is restricted;  ? Updated code to stop copying contact information if restricted.  ? Worked on development of web application services  ? Define with the client the business rules to implement the web application  ? Training of executive and operational users    Technologies Used: Java, Spring, Struts, bootstrap, Oracle, SOAP, Rest, Axis2, NetBeans. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (8 years), Bootstrap (9 years), CSS (8 years), HTML5 (8 years), Java (9 years)