Independent Developer Independent <span class="hl">Developer</span> Hobe Sound, FL To obtain a hands-on software development role where I can utilize my 30 years of experience  consistently delivering commercially successful software solutions and application on time and on budget.  Interested in either on-site or remote opportunities. Work Experience Independent Developer Self - Hobe Sound, FL 2017 to Present Working on several software projects involving C# with UWP/WinForms/Unity. Senior Software Developer Solicas, LLC - Dayton, OH 2015 to 2016 Senior software developer for projects including UWP applications, Unity 3D games, and Internet of Things with Raspberry Pi. Senior Software Developer Forever Inc - Dayton, OH 2014 to 2015 Primary software developer for a major new release of the software applications Forever Artisan and Forever Historian (C#, WinForms, Direct2D, XML, Software release and deployment).  Maintained and supported exist releases and related web services and web sites (SQL, REST,  ASP.Net. Web Content Delivery, Automated back-end service, Web front end development) Chief Software Architect and Partner Panstoria - Dayton, OH 1995 to 2014 Principal software designer and developer for seven major versions of two commercially  successful desktop applications (C#, WinForms, Direct2D, XML, Software release and deployment).  Developed web services applications and websites to support these applications (SQL, SQL Azure,  REST, ASP.Net. Azure Services, Web Content Delivery, Automated back-end data management  service, Web front end development). Major contributions to product design and management,  sales and marketing, and business operations. Project manager and lead developer on many  contact software development projects with a very high on-time and on-budget performance  record. Authored patent on machine measuring techniques. Independent contractor Schweizer Consulting - Dayton, OH 1993 to 1994 Developed professional services for operating systems migration and application development for NCR Professional Services group. Software developer NCR Corporation - Dayton, OH 1984 to 1992 Senior developer of communications protocols including NetBIOS and ISO Class 4 transport (C,  C++, Intel Assembly language). Managed PC operating system and network software packaging  and release. Received NCR's highest technical achievement award. Published papers on object- oriented compiler methods and persistent object-oriented data storage. Authored patent on PC  network hardware architecture. Education BS in Mechanical Engineering / BA Material Science Rice University 1984 Skills .Net (10+ years), Asp (10+ years), C# (10+ years), Image processing (10+ years), Internet information services (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Json (Less than 1 year), Microsoft SQL Server (10+ years), Rest (10+ years), Sql (10+ years), Sql azure (10+ years), Unity 3d (2 years), web services (10+ years), Xml (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), SQL Server Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Patents Content manager (#8,635,191) 2014-01 An archive for digital content comprises archive storage, an archive service and a manifest. The archive storage is a unified storage structure for storing items, such a directory having a plurality of subdirectories. The manifest is stored within the archive storage when the archive storage is loaded onto a storage device, and may comprise an index of items stored in the unified structure of the archive and/or an organizational structure that supports defined categories that characterize items stored in the unified structure and/or at least one backup queue that temporarily queues a list of items that satisfy predetermined backup criteria by have not been backed up. The archive service serves as an intermediate between users, e.g., operators, software modules, programs, services, etc., and the archive storage to control requests for access to items stored in the unified storage structure. Graphic representation for display on a monitor (#D432,100) 2000-10 A method for rendering probes on Coordinate Measuring Machines Publications A fast method dispatcher for compiled languages with multiple inheritance https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=74900 1989-01 This paper addresses the problem of an efficient dispatch mechanism in an object-oriented system  with multiple inheritance. The solution suggested is a direct table indexed branch such as is used in  C++. The table slot assignments are made using a coloring algorithm. The method is applicable to  strongly typed languages such as C++ (with multiple inheritance added) and Eiffel, and in a slightly  slower form to less strongly typed languages like Objective C. Additional Information http://www.linkedin.com/in/paul-schweizer