Developer l <span class="hl">Developer</span> l Front-end Developer Monroe, NY Work Experience Developer l Mediacom Communications Corporation - Blooming Grove, NY January 2019 to Present Monitoring company’s different jobs running on servers via task scheduler. Configuring errors of the running job applications predesigned in Visual Basic 6 or C#.net in visual studio 2013/2015/2019.    Learned deploying job applications and monitoring It jobs running on servers via Active batch tools.     Supporting seniors and IT team members with designing any new job applications using c#.net and Sql server for back-end.    Developed web applications using HTML5, CSS 3, Flexbox and jQuery for front-end designing on visual studio 2019 and sublime text3 editors.    Self-studying on developing more website designs with highly self-motivation using jQery, JavaScript, aap.net and understandings cloud based technologies.     Self-trained in google analytics and achieved certifications. Website Developer The AAT - New York, NY April 2017 to August 2017 • working on a database development using MySQL queries for an innovative website of a non-profit company with the purpose of helping young people, called STEM innovators, who can share their work and experiences via a YouTube platform and further market their skills and projects.  • Handling technical issues of a website developed in HTML, CSS and Java Script.  • Leading the working team to improve the basic features of the company website called TheAATProject.com and Mattermakers.com via godaddy.com domain by using PHP Admin to improve website features, such as editing registration page, adding secured sign in, sign out, search bar, outlook of webpages. Front-end developer Internship PrintEZ - NY March 2016 to July 2016 • Worked on changing front-end images and contents of the product and worked on the developed database to handle tickets in database queries for live e-commerce website of a well-known post and delivery company (Primarily using PHP, HTML5, CSS, and MySQL)  • Used Wampp server and FTP with Open Cart 2.1 platform for the best practices to optimize web site with errors resolving  • Experienced with an installation, configuration, and modification, testing and deploying application with Tomcat Apache server.  • Handled other technical issues by improving coding, debugging and software testing.  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL.  • Trained and experienced with cPanel to design, code in PHP and checked live operations of the company's local website. Software Developer Internship Pruthvi Infotech Pvt. Ltd - IN May 2009 to January 2010 • Analyzed solution requirements, designed, developed and tested software to meet requirements using VB.Net.  • Developed relational database schemas and generated reports (SQL Reporting tool). Education Electronic Health Record Management Orange Ulster County Community College - Newburg, NY December 2017 B.S. in Computer Science New York Institute of Technology - New York, NY May 2015 B.E. in Computer Engineering Veer Narmad South Gujarat University December 2010 Diploma of Computer Engineering in Computer engineering Nirma University of Science and Technology September 2008 Skills HTML (1 year), PHP (1 year), MYSQL (1 year), CSS (1 year), OUTLOOK (1 year), Javascript, Angular, C#, NET, HTML5, Bootstrap, Front End, Jquery, SQL, Sql Server Certifications/Licenses Google Analytics February 2019 to February 2021 Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS:    Programming Languages:  ROR, HTML5,CSS3, MySQL, SQL  Source code control:  GitHub, MSDN  Databases:  SQL Server2005/2007/2008/2012,  MySQL5.6.2, MS Access, MS Excell   Design and IDE tools:  Sublime text2/3, Visual Studio 2007,  NetBeans 8.0., Zeplin  MS Office tools:  MSWord, Excel, MSAccess, Power Point,  Outlook, Visio  Reporting tools:  MS Visual studio 2013, Crystal Report  EHR software tools: Quippe