LEAD DEVELOPER LEAD <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> LEAD DEVELOPER Portland, OR • 12 years of development experience with ORACLE ATG COMMERCE / JAVA STACK in design and implementation of enterprise B2B, B2C and Retail applications.  • Technologist with keen interest in Agile Development, Application Design, Architecture, Design Thinking, Business Requirements Analysis.  • Managed small to medium teams of Onsite and Offshore Developers Work Experience LEAD DEVELOPER AT&T INC June 2009 to March 2019 • Responsible for the end to end delivery process of ecommerce software service on ORACLE ATG COMMERCE Platform, including design, development, testing, automation, deployment, production support • Working in Order Capture Engine (OCE) that utilizes Micro Services based architecture to process online orders. Delivering solutions via CI/CD pipeline.  • Promotion Incubator Team: Work within the Agile methodology to implement solutions using programming languages such as Java, JSON (REST APIs), and ORACLE ATG COMMERCE framework.  • Production Support  - Supported ecommerce applications and solves configuration and environment issues.  - Supported the software deployment process.  - Collaborated with Quality Assurance Team to Create and execute automated test plans/strategies utilizing business requirements and collaborated with architecture, systems administration team, business team, etc. to validate test environments, test data and test results, design and implement code fixes, validate outcomes against expected results and produce associated reporting.  - Coordinated interface testing, integration testing, end-to-end testing and/or user acceptance testing.  • Hard Rock Ecommerce Application: Designed and Executed Authorization and Authentication Module, Shopping Cart, Save and Retrieve Cart, Checkout etc.  • BAZAARVOICE: As a Development Manager, coordinated, collaborated and communicated with business management team, UI Team, Front End Team and Vendor to review software requirements/user stories, provide estimates, create software design specifications and collaborate with cross functional team (engineering/architecture/quality assurance/business management) to assess and test software systems.  • Team Presentations: Cloud Computing, Content Provider Framework, Bazaar voice, ORACLE ATG COMMERCE Unit Testing Framework.  • Environment: ORACLE ATG ecommerce Platform, WebLogic, XML, Oracle SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER NIKE INC September 2005 to May 2009 • Elite Client Services Project - Designed and executed the enterprise application that integrated the application with External Order Management System and NIKE ID System to import product catalog, develop web services, external batch jobs, messaging system, and pipeline processors to accept orders online and process the payment.  - Designed product data feed using JMS, XML, Java and Oracle SQL from corporate database into application database.  - Designed data loader to load the inventory, order export and ship confirm data from external system.  - Designed inventory feeds from SAP Wholesale warehouses developed using Web Services, XML, Java and Oracle SQL.  - Designed ENDECA product and inventory feeds to display the product attributes and availability in front end designed using ENDECA and R/GA.  - Designed Inventory module that displays the out of stock products designed using ATG dynamo messaging system (DMS).  - Designed Inventory management module that initializes the SAP factory, plant and warehouse information in ATG.  - Environment: ORACLE ATG COMMERCE Platform, JBOSS, Web Services, JMS, XML, Oracle, JSP.  • Nike Find Phase 3 Project  - As Software Architect coordinated the effort across more than 25 resources spread across multiple teams that included research, analysis, scope, estimation, architecture design and presented the feasibility solution to senior management, business and project management team.  - The ecommerce solution incorporated product catalog, inventory, and order and fulfillment module based on EDI, Web Services, XML, and ATG ecommerce Platform.  • Nike Find Phase 2 Project  - Designed the Shopping Cart module to charge various shipping options based on various order parameters and commerce items in the shopping cart that resulted in cost savings to company.  - Designed inventory module to load inventory data from additional inventory golf warehouses.  - Designed Shipping Module to resolve issue related to NIKE ID product being shipped free and as a result saved revenue loss to Nike Retail.  - Environment: ORACLE ATG COMMERCE Platform, JBOSS, XML, Oracle.  • Nike B2C - Nike Find Phase 1  - Designed product module to load the products from master database into application database using ATG Repository.  - Designed sales module to load sales data into Island Pacific Retail ERP system for corporate book-keeping.  - Designed image module to load the product images from Brand Media Library Nike global image repository into Team site server for display in frontend.  - Environment: ORACLE ATG COMMERCE Platform, JBOSS, XML, Oracle.  • Footwear Product Testing Application  - Supported Apache STRUTS based web application deployed on Apache Tomcat • Nike Virtual Sampling Application  - Virtual Sampling Application Integration with PDM.  - The proposal leverage the seasonal classification structure, the PDM material library as the system of records by integrating this information with Nike Virtual Sampling Web application.  - It utilized the Adobe Scene 7 recommendation to establish SOA architecture between PDM and Nike Virtual Sampling web application.  - As Technical Lead managed the team that comprised of internal development resources and external vendor to execute SOA architecture based application utilizing web services, XML, Ant for Unit Testing and Eclipse as IDE deployed on Tomcat that retrieved the data from Wind chill backend and presented it to DHTML frontend.  - Environment: SOA, Web Services, Apache Axis, Web Service Security, Eclipse, Tomcat, Ant, Wind chill PDM, APACHE STRUTS Education MBA in MARKETING MANAGEMENT BAJAJ BUSINESS SCHOOL - Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills Java, Javascript