Sr Ios Developer Sr Ios <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Ios Developer - 7-Eleven Philadelphia, PA • 8 years of total IT experience in designing, developing and testing Enterprise Mobile Native Apps using iOS (iPhone/iPad/Universal) SDK.  • Experience using mobile APIs and specific functions of iOS such as: Core Foundation, UIKit, Core Location, Storyboards, Local Storage in Core Data, Social Accounts, Apple Maps, Google Maps, Push Notifications, AvFoundation Framework, Alamo fire, Swiftly JSON, Realm Asynchronous Tasks.  • Experienced in creating and custom UIViews, Table Views, Tab Bars and Navigation Bar, which are some basic functionality in a Multi-view Application.  • Worked on integration of Apple Pay and other major cards acceptance using stripe.  • Worked on offline storage and updating the server when user comes to online.  • Effective, concise coding style (clear, explicit method names and effective comments)  • Followed HIG guidelines, best coding practices and peer programming.  • Used Xcode 9.4 which includes a powerful Migrator that will help convert our application and playground code to work with the latest syntax improvements in Swift 4.2  • Experienced in working with Storyboard and Interface Builder and developed apps using various iOS design patterns (MVVM, Delegation, Target-action, and Notification)  • Hands on knowledge with APNS and good working experience on iCloud framework.  • Exceptionally skilled in the use of databases such as SQLite, Core data framework and Realm.  • Highly capable with Accelerometer, Sensor, GPS and Bluetooth.  • Experienced working with utility frameworks within the SDK like Key Chain and TouchID.  • Skilled in use of XML web services such as REST and SOAP.  • Expertise JSON data knowledge such as NSURLConnection, NSURLSession, AFNetworking.  • Abundant experience in persistent store such as Core Data, and data pass by using NSFetchedResultsController to update data dynamically.  • Experienced in adding Core Animation for smooth transitioning between UIViews and better user experience  • Worked on Apple database framework Core-data and third party framework Realm.  • Optimizing the code in each phase of the application with different Test Driven Development Environment (TDD)  • Proficiency with memory management - Manual Reference Counting (MRC) and Automatic Reference Counting (ARC) and managed data and memory management from streamlining code and using various debugging tests.  • Experienced in GCD and NSOperationQueue in Multithreading and used GCD for Asynchronous background fetches to build more responsive User Interface.  • Expertise in configuration and use of SVN for maintaining version control using GitHub and bitbucket.  • Expertise in developing Universal iOS applications and experience in tuning the applications to fix Memory leaks and optimize memory allocation using Xcode developer tool Instruments. Work Experience Sr Ios Developer 7-Eleven - Irving, TX August 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing hybrid mobile applications in iOS development  • Architected a customized network protocol used by client applications including iOS  • Using Swift iOS as a programming language to develop the application.  • Working closely with client and UX teams to validate the requirements and helping them to understand technical feasibility.  • Worked on Design and development of complete application using best coding practices and design patterns..  • Validated and submitted Application to app store and provided support to get approval from apple.  • Responsible for designing and writing design docs and getting it approval from all stake holders.  • Fetching web service data using NSDecoder and NSEncoder classes.  • Followed latest MVVM design patter for designing the app and followed protocol oriented programming.  • Followed HIG for designing the app.  • Worked extensively on table views and collection views and made customized table view cells per requirements  • Used GCD for Asynchronous background fetches to build more responsive User Interface  • Design and develop reusable, automated tests in accordance with coding and made Pre-fetching of data for different views possible for smooth screen transitioning.  • Worked on Apple database framework Core-data and third party framework Realm.  • Implemented on integration of Apple Pay and other major cards acceptance using stripe framework.  • Implemented offline storage and updating the server when user comes to online.  • Taking charge of the user interface for the development of iOS applications by using Objective C, Xcode Swift, JQUERY mobile, JAVASCRIPT, Backbone.js.  • Created custom internal iOS framework utilized by all iOS apps of the company.  • Implemented Mobile Application for both iPhone iOS and iPad using Swift.  • Building client and server technology using, Objective C, Xcode and Swift  • Development mobile web application for iOS.  • Full redesigned of the Mobile App from Objective C to Swift.  • Repurposed the Content of web for Mobile using jQuery mobile & launched a Mobile Application.  • Cooperated with R&D team for developing front end solutions using JQuery Mobile  • Developing iOS application and networking API features for iOS using Xcode, Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, iOS SDK, Core Data  • Worked extensively with Objective-C and iOS SDK.  • Worked closely with UI team in designing user interface of the application optimized for all iPhone and iPad devices running with iOS and above using Auto layout.  • Developing a multi-platform phone app for iOS, Android, and Windows Phone 7  • Worked on the MySQL migration project .To make the system completely independent of the database.  • Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT and LINUX  • Used Resource Manager to schedule the job in UNIX server.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Architected and implement REST api interfaces using javascript and Node.js  • Created ASP.NET User Controls and Master pages to reduce the complexity of user interface design and to have a common look and feel.  • Developed a C# and Silverlight front-end application to access the web service  • Created Flex classes (ActionScript and MXML files) using Flex PureMVC pattern.  • Developed applications using a combination of Java with Android SDK, and Java  • Develop mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library  • Used Sencha Touch and EXT JS for the Mobile web interface development. Also used JSON and JQuery for Mobile application development.  Environment: IOS, Iphone, Ipad, Objective C, Swift, Xcode, Android, Sencha Touch, JQTouch, Asp.Net, C#, HTML, CSS, JSON, Jquery Mobile, Eclipse, RAD, Java, Oracle, PL/SQL, MySql, MS-Sql, JDBC, Oracle Coherence, MongoDB, Web Services, SOAP, REST, SOA, Ant, Agile, Scrum, Linux, Unix. Sr Ios Developer JCPenney - Plano, TX August 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed mobile websites and apps for iOS.  • Mobile application development utilizing Sencha Touch Javascript API Framework  • Creation of mobile applications utilizing Objective C on iOS platforms  • Responsible for designing and writing design docs and getting it approval from all stake holders  • Implemented Touch ID and bar code scanners  • Worked extensively on table view controller and made customized table view cells per requirements  • Used GCD for Asynchronous background fetches to build more responsive User Interface  • Design and develop reusable, automated tests in accordance with coding and made Pre-fetching of data for different views possible for smooth screen transitioning  • Worked on live streaming technologies using AvFoundation and HLS. Worked on web service calls, XML and JSON parsing and designed the HTTP interface, which uses the NSURLConnection and NSURLRequest classes of Cocoa Touch to make network requests.  • Worked with Payment card process like PayPal and have knowledge on payment card security process.  • Worked with UIKit Framework for development and maintenance and added animation between UIViews for smooth transitioning and better user experience  • Worked with backend team to display the right data formats in devices  • Worked on web service calls, XML and JSON parsing and designed the HTTP interface, which uses the NSURLConnection and NSURLRequest classes of Cocoa Touch to make network requests.  • Created view animations using UIAnimation classes and QuartzCore framework.  • Worked with GIT to checkout and update the codebase changes and followed SCRUM methodology throughout development  • Mobile-Web, Enyo R&D, created iOS, Window-Mobile plug-ins  • Worked in team to develop iOS application.  • Architected and built iOS interfacing with external RESTful and SOAP-based web services, interacting with external design group for UX and transforming/translating design-level requirements into functional requirements for same.  • Designed, Developed and maintained iOS applications using Cocoa Touch and Objective C.  • Conceptualized, designed, developed and deployed mobile applications using iOS SDK, Xcode.  • Used Sencha Touch to create Android and iOS applications to support RoR app.  • Worked on full software development cycle from concept through deployment for iOS.  • Designed and implemented using iPhone SDK, Xcode, Objective-C and Interface Builder.  • Worked with iPhone application development using iPhone SDK, C#.NET, Xamarin Studio and Xcode having developed successful iOS (both iPhone & iPad) applications.  • Developed web apps for iOS (iPhone) and Android using frameworks like JQTouch, iWebKit.  • Develop a real time sports management web platform using T-SQL, JQuery Mobile and Flex.  • Designed and implemented database structure in MySQL Server.  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ant script.  • Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems  • Designed and developed multi-protocol telecom Single-Page Architecture application using Node.js, Express and Jade on the backend  • Developing iOS application and networking API features for iOS using Xcode, Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, iOS SDK, Core Data  • Created ASP.NET User Controls and Master pages to reduce the complexity of user interface design and to have a common look and feel.  • Developed .NET components using C# and involved in the deployment of those components.  • Co-developed a new tool on the Express NodeJS/backBone.js MVC platform that allows marketers to insert dynamic content in email sends based on location and temporal factors  • Developed localizable GUIs using JavaScript, C#, WCF and Silverlight for Microsoft.  • Created Flex classes (ActionScript and MXML files) using Flex PureMVC pattern.  Environment:. IOS, Iphone, IPad, Xcode, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Objective C, Android, Cordova, C#, ASP.Net, JQuery Mobile, Silverlight, Actionscript, Windowsphone7, HTML, CSS, Dojo Mobile, Agile, Scrum, Eclipse, RAD, DB2 Java, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MongoDB, SOAP, Web Services, Linux, Unix, Eclipse, Git, Github, UML Mobile Developer InEight, Nebraska - Omaha, NE March 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Ported an iPhone iOS application to Android to include SQLite database management and several data entry views and GUIs.  • Publishing the application in production for all platforms (Android)  • Developed the presentation layer (UI) using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, Flash, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Developed Coding the presentation layer using WPF and Silverlight.  • Developed prototypes using Flex, ActionScript, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java  • Responsible for building the application front end UI in Flex, ActionScript, FlashBuilder4 and Parsley.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery  • Worked in UI Design and Implementation phases and documented requirement analysis and design with the business SMEs  • Developed critical tools for this project like customized navigation bar, page control and scroll view  • Working closely with client and UX teams to validate the requirements and helping them to understandtechnical feasibility.  • Worked on Design and development of complete application using best coding practices and design patterns..  • Validated and submitted Application to app store and provided support to get approval from apple.  • Responsible for designing and writing design docs and getting it approval from all stake holders  • Implemented Touch ID and bar code scanners  • Worked extensively on table view controller and made customized table view cells per requirements  • Implemented custom search solutions using Coveo (an enterprise search engine), Backbone.js, and .NET web services (see Goodwin Procter's site for an example)  • Develop mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library  • Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework  • Using Sencha touch for development to find relevant people for the same social Networking Websites  • Assisted in the logistical parameters of the iPad deployment process by keeping a daily count of total iPads and monitoring the shipping methods.  • Involved in updating the application UI and application data structure for both Iphone/Ipad.  • Using JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery Mobile and EJS developed UI for a J2EE web application.  • Redesign part of an existing web application that was meant for desktops to work on mobile phones using JQuery Mobile  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the system using Ruby scripts  • Website development based on WordPress as a content management system.  • Designed and developed the individual components of the system using C++ and CORBA  • Developed code using C, C++ for secure transaction.    Environment: Android, IOS, Phonegap, JQTouch, Sencha Touch, Java, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, EMC Documentum, Jira, Swing, Cognos, iLog, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS, VB Mobile Developer Well Care - Reston, VA February 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on full software development cycle from concept through deployment for iOS and Android.  • Integrated various plugins to access and customize native iPhone and Android features.  • Developed an Android keyboard entry game with different selectable skins in a dynamic drawing threaded environment.  • Started the Android codebase for the topi mobile app and responsible for all following updates.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery  • Created re-usable custom components in Flex and ActionScript.  • Developed Silverlight add-on applications for use with CRM solutions  • Implemented business requirements using Actionscript  • Design and written Unit test cases and scenarios for Windows Phone 7.  • Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework.  • Developed share view using Sencha Touch for non flash supporting devices.  • Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online service with Flash/Flex.  • Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  • Used services, Asynchronous tasks and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  • Participated in the quality assurance of the app including, testing of the User Interface and testing the app on different mobile devices  Environment: Android, IOS, Phonegap, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Java, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, REST, Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, API, DDMS, XML, JSON, Android, Android API's, Eclipse IDE Software Developer Persistent System Ltd - Jersey City, NJ July 2007 to January 2009 Responsibilities:  • Mobile application development with Titanium SDK.  • Develop mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library  • Design, development, testing and implementation of WEB applications using Sencha touch framework.  • Implemented Presentation layer using JSP, Servlets, HTML5.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.  • Design and development of Web Pages using PHP, jQuery, jQuery Mobile, Ajax.  • Developed the presentation layer (UI) using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, Flash, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Design UI screens using JSP, CSS, Struts Framework, Flash, Java Script and HTML.  • Designed User manuals in CorelDraw.  • Worked with Core Location and MapKit framework for the purpose of showing current locations on a map on iPhone applications  • Provide recommendation for app purchase for iPad use.  • Developed the presentation layer (UI) using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, Flash, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Design UI screens using JSP, CSS, Struts Framework, Flash, Java Script and HTML.  • Designed User manuals in CorelDraw.  • Worked with Core Location and MapKit framework for the purpose of showing current locations on a map on iPhone applications  • Provide recommendation for app purchase for iPad use.  • Used BlackBerry JME JDE to test software on the device.  • Configured Struts, Hibernate framework with Spring MVC.  • Implemented JBOSS Cache provider with Hibernate second-level cache for clustered caching using cache factory interfaces.  • Data modeling using Database development skills in Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL  • Have used the Apache CXF to build web service client.  • Worked on major bug fixes, which included UI issues and functionality issues as well    Environment: Android, IOS, Phonegap, Jqtouch, Sencha TouchHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, AEM, PLSQL, Oracle, Windows