Senior Software Developer / Contractor Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Contractor Senior Software Developer / Contractor Covington, KY Work Experience Senior Software Developer / Contractor Unit. Acceptance, and Integration 2016 to August 2019 My position involved working with a team of 5 developers. On a daily basis software is developed for processing and inner warehouse management. Unit. Acceptance, and Integration tests are created thoroughly on a virtual machine using vagrant. The team works together to layout the database design and any complicated tasks revolving around EDI integrations, API calls, etc.  • Laravel 5.8  • PHP 7.1  • HTML 5  • CSS 3  • AngularJS  • MySQL  • Git  • Vagrant Virtual Environment  • Agile  • PHPUnit  • Codeception  • Jira  • Bitbucket NORAM - Hebron, KY 2014 to 2019 Software Developer LEANCOR - Florence, KY 2011 to 2014 This position involved logistics software used globally to track supplier's inventory to plants via carriers. Daily responsibilities include maintaining the tools, helping our in-house customers develop projects to broaden the scope of our software, formulate and develop continuous improvement projects, debug emergencies, and create new features to make the jobs of our Operations Department easier.  • CakePHP 2  • PHP 5.5  • Javascript  • jQuery  • HTML  • MySQL  • CSS  • Apache  • Git Programmer/Analyst INTEGRATED RESEARCH ASSOCIATES - Cincinnati, OH 2007 to 2009 Languages: Mentor, Merlin, SQL, Office, VB), Daily responsibilities included generating reports for Intercept Studies as well as Control Store Tests, maintaining backup systems, assisting with virus protection, developing a working a relationship with E-mail provider, and providing overall IT support for individual users. Reduced the time required for report generation from several weeks to two days by developing a system of automated tasks generating both Intercept studies as well as Control Store Tests. Created a program automating SAS file generation for the Analysis Department, resulting in reduction of time required by a day.    • Mentor  • Merlin  • MS SQL  • Office  • Visual Basic Owner E-SPIES.COM - Cincinnati, OH 2005 to 2007 Designed a game to understand how to get data from the front end to the back end. Ended up learning PHP to accomplish this.    • PHP 5  • Apache  • Javascript  • HTML  • MySQL  • CSS Education Bachelors of Science in Information Technology SLIPPERY ROCK UNIVERSITY - Slippery Rock, PA 2002 Skills Javascript