Tableau Developer Tableau <span class="hl">Developer</span> Tableau Developer - Supervalu, Inc Phoenix, AZ • Tableau Developer with 12+ Years of extensive IT industry experience in creating and implementing effective strategies/solutions for developing Business Intelligence/Data Warehousing (BI/DW), client/server applications, aspects of database management systems, development and complete Project Life Cycle in Data Warehousing.  • Extensive experience in gathering and analyzing requirements, Gap Analysis, Scope Definition, Business Process Improvements, project tracking, risk analysis and change control management.  • Expertise in providing end to end BI solutions by configuring metadata and building Dimensional Modeling designs, building business models, generating reports, Visualization and creating dashboards using Tableau 10.1.3.  • Experience in managing Repository, Sources, Target Databases and developing strategies for Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) mechanism.  • Extensive experience in Microsoft tools such as SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) and SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services).  • Expertise in creating and fine-tuning complex and Adhoc reports.  • Extensive experience in creating Tableau scorecards, Tableau dashboards using stack bars, bar graphs, Line charts, scattered plots and geographical maps.  • Extensive experience in creating custom charts like Funnel Charts, Waterfall Charts etc.,  • Experience in creating Gantt chart for Project Management.  • Outstanding knowledge in writing and analyzing complex SQL queries, stored procedures, database tuning, query optimization and resolving key performance issues.  • Strong understanding of project life cycle and SDLC methodologies including Waterfall and Agile.  • Experience in unit testing, system testing, integration testing and data validation.  • Experienced in troubleshooting production issues and production support for projects.  • Excellent understanding of Data modeling (Dimensional & Relational) on concepts like Star-schema, Snowflake schema using fact and dimension tables and relational databases (Oracle), MS Access and client/server applications.  • Mastered designing and deploying rich graphical visualizations with Drill down and Drill up menu options and Parameterized using Tableau.  • Experience in using complex calculated fields using different types of functions like Logical, Number, String, Aggregate, Date etc.  • Worked with different data sources like Flat Files, MS Excel, SQL, ORACLE and DB2  • Experienced in Performance Tuning by analyzing and comparing the turnaround times between SQL and Tableau.  • Extensively involved in Reverse-Engineering and Business rules extraction expert in project planning, strategic planning, systems analysis and troubleshooting, quality control, forecasting, scheduling and planning and tracking of results.  • Extensive Experience in Legacy Modernization projects such as converting the Legacy reports such as conversion of Mainframe reports to Data Visualization reports using Tableau.  • Flexible, enthusiastic and project-oriented team player with excellent communication skills with leadership abilities to develop creative solution for challenging requirement of client.  • Extensive functional study, research problems and drive performance tuning and cost cutting opportunities.  • Expertise in Balancing the Inventories between Warehouse and Inventory Management system.  • Cross Trained in Micro Focus COBOL with Enterprise Server, SQL Server and Tableau tool from the direct client and adopted my knowledge in my ongoing projects.  • Client facing role at California, USA for 5 years - as the primary technical contact and SME for Billing and Inventory Management System. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Tableau Developer Supervalu, Inc - Phoenix, AZ April 2017 to Present Unified Grocers, Inc., The major wholesalers in west region announced a merge with Supervalu Inc., located in central region. Unified Grocers has 6 warehouses on which Seattle warehouse is to be closed soon. The items from Seattle warehouse are to be shifted to Tacoma (Supervalu Warehouse) and Portland (Unified Grocer's Warehouse). The current project integrates data from Multiple sources into data mart and develops the report on the same using Tableau. The current application is a part of reporting the analysis and forecast trend of purchase orders during the transition of merge with Supervalu.    Role and Responsibilities  • Worked closely with the business users to identify various Key performance's and designed solutions to enhance the business making decisions  • Worked with Senior project managers and sales heads to gather requirements and get feedback on the work  • Used Tableau Desktop for blending databases and create interactive views and dashboards  • Worked in environment that incorporated fast paced agile development methodology  • Involved in system analysis and design of the Data Visualization reports.  • Actively involved as part of a team for gathering and analyzing the needs of the end user requirements and system specifications  • Thoroughly analyzed the current Architecture, databases and designed schemas  • Developed and modified the business intelligence analytical reports/dashboards using Tableau Desktop  • Created various reports like Transactional (Master & Detail) reports, Cross Tab reports, slice and dice reports, and Drill Down reports and Stored Procedure as data providers  • Created very complex Dashboards using Tableau 10.1.3 using the Drill Down, Drill Across, actions for business steering committees  • Created complex dashboards and involved in performance tuning of operational dashboards in Tableau using the various sources of data from the excel sheets, DB2 and SQL server databases  • Designed, developed and modified the interactive dashboards and created guided navigation links within interactive dashboards  • Designed various practical Data Visualizations, Charts, Dashboards, Prototypes and Demos, published it in various Tableau workbooks for the Data Visualization team  • Designed and Optimized Connections, Data Extracts, schedules for background tasks and data refreshes for the corporate Tableau server  • Designed self-refreshing activity monitoring dashboards for Information Analytics and Innovation portal  • Extensively used advance chart visualizations in Tableau like Dual Axis, Box Plots, Bullet Graphs, Tree maps, Bubble Charts, Water Fall charts, funnel charts etc., to assist the business users in solving complex problems  • Utilized Tableau visual analytics and best practices like Dashboard structure, view orientation, sizing and layout, data emphasis, highlighting, color, fonts, tooltips, and performance improvement of complex dashboards/reports  • Knowledge transitioned to next level peers.  • Defined best practices for Tableau report development  Environment: Tableau, MS SQL Server, DB2, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Developer, MS Visio, MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)    Project: Legacy Modernization Tableau Developer Unified Grocers, Inc - Commerce, CA April 2015 to March 2017 Unified Grocers, Inc., The major wholesalers in west region and they decided to convert their legacy (Mainframe) application to Enterprise Micro focus environment. As part of this project, Client decided to migrate the existing Mainframe reports to Data Visualization reports using Tableau. We have converted various reports such as Inventory reports, Purchase Order reports, Balancing (Inventory and Warehouse) reports, Shipment Reports and Item Discrepancy analysis report.    Role and Responsibilities  • Actively participated in interaction with the users, team lead, DBA's and technical manager to fully understand the requirements of the system  • Participated in the business and specifications requirements gathering sessions and converted it into design specifications. The design specifications ranges from a high-level design to the application level designs and (Cross) application interface agreements specifications  • Worked extensively with MS Visio and Rational tools to document the existing process flow.  • Extensively worked in analyzing the existing Mainframe reports, extracted the business rules and applied the same in Tableau to present visually for the Business User.  • Defined the scope of the project based on the gathered business requirements including documentation of constraints, assumptions, business impacts, project risks and scope exclusions  • Developed business, functional and/or technical requirement specifications adhering to the standard requirement templates  • Defined, created and managed the business specifications, technical specifications, and other project documentation for applications development  • Actively involved in the design, development and testing phase and conducted detailed data modelling for the database to be developed  • Created both logical and physical designs of a database and ran the reports  • Prepared ETL design documents which consists of the database structure, change data capture, Error handling, restart and refresh strategies  • Designed and developed business rules to load data from source flat files and RDBMS tables to target tables  • Responsible for the testing, fixing the bugs and troubleshooting the technical problems  • Designed and developed various weekly and monthly reports showing detailed information that could be used to send information to diverse group of users, clients, and managers  • Created Tableau scorecards, dashboards using stack bars, bar graphs, scattered plots and geographical maps  • Worked on line chart, Bubble chart and Drill Down analysis using Tableau desktop  • Worked extensively with advance Analysis Actions, Calculations, Parameters, Background images, Maps, Trend Lines, Statistics, and Log Axes. Groups, Hierarchies, sets to create detailed level summary reports and supported the reports developed and given in production support.  • Worked in writing SQL queries (Sub queries and Join conditions, correlated sub queries).  • Developed SQL queries to fetch complex data from different tables in remote databases using Joins, database links and formatted the results into reports.  • Presented and proposed solutions, and alternatives to requirements with an eye to scalability, flexibility, ease of maintenance and time to delivery, which often requires a phased approach and understanding of release schedules.  • Created documentation, worked with the users for new module enhancements and testing.  • Interacted with the end users on a regular basis for resolving issues pertaining to the reports.    Environment: Tableau, Oracle, Toad, SQL Developer, COBOL, DB2, Micro focus COBOL, MSOffice (Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Visio)    Project: IMS Rewrite Project Senior Mainframe Developer Unified Grocers, Inc - Commerce, CA November 2014 to March 2016 This is an enhancement project to rewrite the Inventory Management system. We had to gather the logic from existing system and segregate the process for each transaction in Inventory Management System. Inventory Management System dealt with several buckets which impacted by the following transactions like Purchase Order Receiving's, Receiving Corrections, Adjustments, Pallet Hold Restricted Items, Invoices, Invoice Corrections, Restricted Cancel process.    Role and Responsibilities  • Preparation & execution of test scripts, database validation to ensure proper inventory balancing between IMS and Warehouse.  • Developed separate process for each transaction and created a database to track each transaction.  • Create complex test scenarios for the System and UAT testing.  • Verify the Beginning Stock, Planning End of Day, Balancing End of Day and End of Day process.  • Sync the inventories for the items between IMS and Warehouse using the Balancing process.  • Project Management - Manage workload, project tracking and ensure defect free delivery.  • Cross Trained in Latest technologies like Micro focus COBOL, Microfocus Enterprise Server, SQL Server 2012, SSIS, SSRS and Tableau for Legacy Modernization project    Environment: COBOL, DB2, JCL, VSAM, IDMS, CICS, REXX, SQL Server 2012, MS Office, VB script, Excel Macros, SSIS.    Project: CIS2 Customer Senior Mainframe Developer Unified Grocers, Inc - Commerce, CA March 2014 to November 2014 This is a migration project from Customer Mainframes system to .NET technologies. Customer system uses IDMS database to manage the data which is then migrated to CIS2 Customer SQL tables. Customer system has Online ADSO screens which is then to be converted to web development front end screens using HTML and CSS.    Role and Responsibilities  • Involved in gathering business requirements for the Customer system to replicate/migrate to .NET Technologies.  • Extensively Worked in documenting the existing Business rules (Requirement Matrix) from Mainframe Application.  • Involved in verifying the functionalities in newly converted .Net Environment.  • Project Management - Manage workload, project tracking and ensure defect free delivery    Environment: COBOL, DB2, JCL, VSAM, IDMS, CICS, REXX, SQL Server 2012, MS Office, VB script, SSIS, HTML, CSS, VB.NET, Javascript    Project: BAD DEBT Extended Algorithm Developer/ Software Engineer AVON Consumer Goods - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2012 to March 2014 This Project has several sub projects. Expanding Credit Algorithm is one of the sub projects. A new rule will be added to the credit algorithm to check for excessive returns. This project involves more than 8 COBOL programs, 4 CICS programs, few DB2 tables and IMS databases. These programs are analyzed, coded and tested based on the requirement. Also, I have prepared the possible test cases with the appropriate test data.    Role and Responsibilities  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis and coding  • Development of code for existing application in COBOL, DB2 & IMS/DB  • Code changes made for online applications.  • Build Unit test case & regression Test case documents  • Performed unit testing and code reviews  • Involved in code changes on application program after the bug fix.    Environment: COBOL, DB2, JCL, VSAM, IMS DB  Project: NIC NC30 Tagging Algorithm Developer/ Software Engineer AVON Consumer Goods - Chennai, Tamil Nadu November 2010 to December 2011 The Main goal of this project is to modify the NIC/No Code 30 Tagging Algorithm. This process is used to identify Representatives who have excessive credits from returns. This project involves more than 10 COBOL programs, few DB2 tables and IMS databases. These programs are analyzed, coded and tested based on the requirement. Also, I have prepared the possible test cases with the appropriate test data.    Role and Responsibilities  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis and coding  • Development of code for existing application in COBOL, DB2 & IMS/DB  • Build Unit test case & regression Test case documents  • Performed unit testing and code reviews  • Involved in code changes on application program after the fix.    Environment: COBOL, DB2, JCL, VSAM, IMS DB  Project: NFe Phase I Development Team Member AVON Consumer Goods - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2010 to November 2010 This project is mainly deal with Fiscal Note Number changes. It is a development project which involves about 50 programs to be changed with short deadline. In this project, the main objective is to add many new fields included in DB2 and IMS databases. All these changes are analyzed, coded and tested COBOL programs. Also I have prepared Unit level Test cases for the same.    Role and Responsibilities  • Development of code for existing application in COBOL, IMS/DB & DB2  • Build Unit Test case documents  • Performed unit testing and code reviews  • To fix the problems on request.  • Involved in code changes on application program after the fix.    Environment: COBOL, DB2, JCL, VSAM, IMS DB  Project: AUTO CRIVAL (R14753) IRG Coverage & (R14698) FMR Validation Developer State Farm Insurance Company - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2008 to December 2009 Customer Rating Index Validation Project (CRIVAL) plays major role in Insurance domain. In this project, we are validating the Insurance Rating Tables (IRG tables). Also, we are validating FMR validation. It accesses 5 databases which includes both IMS & DB2 for policy and other information. CRIVAL tables handle the following business applications    - New business applications  - Created new validations for IRG tables and FMR Databases.  - Multi-Car Policies.    Role and Responsibilities  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis and coding  • Development of code for new application in PLI, IMS/DB & DB2  • Build Unit test case & regression Test case documents  • Performed unit testing and code reviews  • As a Problem Analyst to fix the problems on request.  • Have involved in code changes on application program after the fix.  • Uploading the components to production libraries  • Create or Update Auto Flow Changes.  • Create SCIT entries for the components.  • Have involved in RMS to deploy the components newer version in production.  • Provided technical support after the release.  • Worked with Service Manager. (Problem Record, Request, Incidents, Change Record, Task).  • Have Involved in Structure, JCL and SCM Checklist reviews.    Environment: COBOL, PL/1, DB2, JCL, VSAM, IMS DB, RMS (Revision Management System)    Project: AUTO DBVAL Groupings (R12262) Developer State Farm Insurance Company - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2007 to December 2008 Groupings Database is a Conversion of OT040 Household Database (Combination of Auto and Fire Database). We are validating this Grouping Database. This Database is validated with Client, Policy Database (OT800 & OT084). This Grouping database handles the following applications:  - Conversion of OT040 database to Groupings.  - Created new validations for grouping tables.  - Validated grouping data with OT040 database until the data gets sync with grouping.    Role and Responsibilities  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis and coding  • Development of code for new application in PLI, IMS/DB & DB2  • Build Unit test case & regression Test case documents  • Performed unit testing and code reviews  • As a Problem Analyst to fix the problems on request.  • Have involved in code changes on application program after the fix.  • Uploading the components to production libraries  • Create or Update Auto Flow Changes.  • Create SCIT entries for the components.  • Have involved in RMS to deploy the components newer version in production.  • Provided technical support after the release.  • Worked with Service Manager. (Problem Record, Request, Incidents, Change Record, Task).  • Have Involved in Structure, JCL and SCM Checklist reviews.    Environment: COBOL, PL/1, DB2, JCL, VSAM, IMS DB, RMS (Revision Management System) Education Master's in Technology and Science software systems, Birla Institute of Technology - Pilani, Rajasthan Bachelor of Science Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills Database, Db2, Ms access, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Vsam, Sql server integration services, Cobol, Micro focus, Ims, Jcl, Sql server reporting services, Ssrs, Tableau, C++, Python, Rdbms Additional Information MANAGEMENT SKILLS:  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, decision-making and presentation skills with the ability to co-ordinate activities in a fast-paced team environment.  • Well versed with onshore and offshore implementation and support models.  • Possess strong leadership and successful team building capabilities with excellent technical, communication, presentation and customer service skills.  • Strong customer focus, excellent communication, organizational and negotiation skills. Project delivery under stringent timelines and high pressure.  • Ability to lead and drive extensive functional study, research problems and drive performance tuning and cost cutting opportunities  • Successfully managed several business requests for Inventory Management system.    APPRECIATIONS:  • Received appreciation from the client "Supervalu" for presenting various user interactive Reports using Tableau tool.  • Received appreciation from the Client "Unified Grocers Inc.," for finding the root cause of VSAM/Flat file deadlocks occurred during the system testing on new Micro Focus Environment.  • Received appreciation from the client "Unified Grocers Inc.," for balancing the Inventory information between Triceps System (Warehouse) and Inventory Database within a short span of time.  • Received Best Performer Award as part of RCG West US quarterly newsletter from Cognizant Technology Solution for delivering critical project on time with zero defects.  • Received Best Innovator Award from cognizant for creating automation tool to generate Daily Error reports for the client "Avon Products US".  • Received Rain Maker Award from Cognizant for delivering the critical project on time with zero defects in 2012.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:  BI Tools Tableau (Desktop and Server) 10.x/9.x/8.x/7.x, Analysis for Office, SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) and SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services)  Languages C, C++, PYTHON, VB SCRIPT, EXCEL MACROS, SQL, PL/SQL  RDBMS SQL Server 2012, MS Access, Oracle 11g/10g  Tools SQL*Plus, TOAD  Mainframes COBOL, DB2, VSAM, JCL, IMS DB    FUNCTIONAL SKILLS:  Retail & Consumer Goods:  • Inventory Management System  • Order Management System  • Customer Information System    Insurance:  • Discount Validation  • Endorsements  • Chargeability