Sr Ruby on Rails developer Sr Ruby on Rails <span class="hl">developer</span> Atlanta, GA • Experience of 14 + years in application development using Ruby On Rails, Java/J2ee ,HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Search Engines(Solr), Social Networking app development ,Object Oriented Programming, Oracle, Application Servers (Web sphere, Web Logic), MongoDB, Redis ,Struts, Hibernate ,Springs ,ZK, SQL, MySQL.  • 10 + years of experience on Ruby on Rails(Ruby 1.8.6-Ruby2.0 and Rails 2-Rails 6)  • Experience in various stages of software development life cycle including requirements analysis, design, development, deployment and testing, with extensive knowledge in application development of various business applications.  • Experience in Agile Development(Iterations and standup meetings etc) and Git Hub, MongoDb, Bitbucket , Amazon EC2 and Heroku.  • Experience in TDD and BDD development methodologies.    • Strong experience in Ruby On Rails, Java/J2ee, Search Engines (Solr/Exalead), JQuery ,AngularJS JIRA, Crucible, HTML5 and Advanced JS(backbone.js, Twitter Bootstrap and Zurb foundation).    • Applied skills in software development, architecture, design, and support for new and existing products.  • Experience in lead and team oriented production with traditional division of roles and agile development.    CONTRIBUTIONS AND GITHUB PROFILE: om sairam  • Github Profile: https://github.com/tulaseerao  • Contributed Import project for non- profit organization using Ruby on Rails(https://github.com/tulaseerao/neon)  • Developed Gem called Hydrate* for JSON parsing (It allows you to create Ruby classes that automatically serialize to and deserialize from a Hash representation of the object or object tree)  • Developed Gem called bluesteel* for centralized CSS and Javascript using bootstrap.    * These gems are project related and not available in my public profile and I would probably share code snippets if someone would need to look. Work Experience Sr Ruby on Rails developer RESOURCE LOGISTICS, INC - Atlanta, GA January 2011 to Present ATLANTA,GA and Olathe, KS)    Environment:  Ruby on Rails(3 and 4), Passenger, Sublime Text, Aptana, Jenkins, Rspecs, less,HTML5, CSS3, AJAX,PJAX, JQuery,MongoDB, JavaScript,Backbone.js, Amazon EC2, Heroku,RESTful, GIT/Bitbucket, Jira, Twitter bootstrap.    Project: iMeet (imeet.com)  iMeet is the best part of online video conferencing, audio web conferencing , screen share and social networking website. Online meetings live on the web with built-in audio and video technology, especially for businesses. iMeet an elegant, personal online meeting room, which allows you at anytime, anywhere to set up a conference.  Things to do it on iMeet  ? Live meetings and conversations on the Web  ? Telephone or video conference with up to 15 participants  ? Fast, easy, secure dial-up, even on the road by Handy-/iPad-A  ? PowerPoint's, pictures and videos show live  ? Easily share documents  ? Easily invite participants using Outlook    • Implemented Cloud Control module(User's Account Management , Billing and Room Settings) using HTML5,CSS3, Rails4,Twitter Bootstrap and JQuery  • Implemented Devise authentication for iMeet Application  • Coded pages using twitter bootstrap for B2B user pages.  • Integrated iMeet app to Saleforce and AppDirect(Single Sign on).  • Created API's for iPad/iPhone/Andriod from iMeet  • Coded image processing using Paper clip and mini magick.  • Coding on Ruby on Rails , JQUERY, Backbone.js, BootStrap, Zurb, HTML5 CSS3/Less and advanced JS in different parts of the application.  • Written Credit card page integration on iMeet and globalmeet online signup pages.  • Working on integrating iMeet online accounts provisioning through App Direct using Open Id.  • Developed special designed pages for iPad and iPhone mobile devices.  • Implemented sorting, auto completer (typo ahead) and paginations functionality for entire application.  • Migrated Rails 2 to Rails 3 and Rails 3 to Rails 4  • Participated daily stand up and scrum meetings.  • Coded entire Email functionality using ActionMailer for Multilingual(German,English,Japanese and Swedish).  • Implemented TDD process and written Rspecs for entire application.  • Developed Gem called Hydrate for JSON parsing. (It allows you to create Ruby classes that automatically serialize to and deserialize from a Hash representation of the object or object tree)  • Developed Gem called bluesteel for centralized CSS and Javascript using bootstrap.  • Used crucible for code reviews. IT Analyst TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES - Washington, DC March 2009 to February 2011 Project: Enterprise Search (search.worldbank.org)    Environment:  Ruby on Rails(2 and 3), SOLR, EXALEAD, Apache Passenger, Aptana, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, RESTful, SVN tortoise.    Enterprise Search is a web based search application for The World bank Group.  This search application includes searching of various kinds of bank documents like projects related documents, data indicators (population, GDP), Secured and confidential documents, People's data and research documents and so on. And also this has all kinds of functionalities like faceted search, spell checker, phonetic matching, auto complete, recommendations, sorting, and best matches and so on. The data has been indexed from all kinds of formats using Solr. The Enterprise Search application has different flavors like External Search (outside the bank network), Intranet Search (Internal search), Lotus notes version for the bank employees and blackberry/mobile search application for both internal access and external world.  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Prepared low level and high level design documents for entire application.  This involves preparing design documents like Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Entity Diagrams using the client provided design tool, MS Visio 2003.  • Coding using Ruby on Rails and also used JQUERY, HTML5 and advanced JS for better look and feel.  • Written Rspecs and implemented TDD process.  • Interaction with client to handle change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection.  • Prepared low level and high level design documents for entire application.  This involves preparing design documents like Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Entity Diagrams using the client provided design tool, MS Visio 2003.  • This involves designing database model for the entire application like creating tables, views and stored procedure.  • Implemented sorting, auto completer (typo ahead) and paginations functionality for entire application.  • Actively involved in the Indexing of data from different data sources using Solr/Exalead.  • Actively involved in the designing of mobile search application (Blackberry app) requirements and coded backend and front end in Ruby on Rails.    Project: ILink  Environment:  Ruby on Rails(2 and 3), SOLR, Apache Passenger, Aptana, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, SVN tortoise and Image Magick.    There are now several thousand World Bank and IFC staff using Blackberry devices. The goal of ilink.wbg.org is to better provide key WBG information quickly to users of Blackberry devices. Given the popularity of the People Pages on the Intranet, this is the first set of information to be added to ilink.wbg.org.This model assumes that the user is connected to the Bank's network via the Blackberry. Blackberry users will be able to click an 'ilink' icon on their Blackberry which will open a folder of additional icons, including a) an icon for People, and b) an icon for News. Each icon will open up a page to relevant information. The current functionality allows users to search on first name, last name, phone number, location, email, title, unit, and unit code. The results provide the same information and also a picture. Both World Bank and IFC People Directory information is included.  Also users can search latest bank news and projects from their blackberry using this app    • Setting up Rails environments  • Implemented Auto Completer using JQuery and Rails JSON  • Prepared low level and high level design documents for entire application.  This involves preparing design documents like Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Entity Diagrams using the client provided design tool, MS Visio 2003.  • Front end coding using Ruby on Rails and also used JQUERY and advanced JS for better look and feel.  • Implemented blackberry application development coding and deployment.  • Actively involved in testing of ilink app in the blackberry simulator.  • Interaction with client to handle change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection.  • This involves designing database model for the entire application like creating tables, views and stored procedure.  • Done Indexing of data from different data sources using Lucene. Software engineer TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES December 2006 to February 2009 Customer: Swiss Re    Project: Single Risk Costing Name Tool  Environment:  Ruby on Rails(2),Webrick, Aptana, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Java,J2ee,Struts,Springs,Hibernate, JavaScript and CVS.    The Single Name Costing Tool is part of an overall infrastructure providing costing tools to underwriters for credit deals. Single Risk Costing is a tool to calculate risk involved in different types of bonds like CTF, BTF & Ship finance, Performance bond, Completion bond, Concession bond, Advance payment bond, Maintenance bond, Commercial bond, financial guarantee  Bond. It helps calculate different parameters like Deal EVM economics like Gross revenue, external expenses etc, Risk analysis in terms of economics tenure in years, probability of loss, loss ratio etc, and exposure overview in terms of PCE and ECE values on underlying risks and on guarantor.  .  • Prepared low level and high level design documents for entire application.  This involves preparing design documents like Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Entity Diagrams using the client provided design tool, MS Visio 2003. These design documents have been uploaded in the client location called "DocIT" for reference for other associates in Swiss Re.  • Data model design and writing stored procedures.  This involves designing database model for the entire application like creating tables, views and stored procedure.  • Implemented generic classes (reusable) for filtering functionality.  • Coded filter module in Ruby on Rails  • This involves the implementation of filtering functionality(like in Quality centre) in both client side (JavaScript) and server side(java).  • Implemented sorting and paginations functionality for entire application.  This involves the implementation of sorting and pagination functionality for displaying the list of values in the screen without hitting the database.  • Actively involved in the coding of dynamic JSP design and graphs generation using JfreeCharts.  This involves the designing of dynamic jsp's which dynamically display input fields and to generate graphs based on these input values using JfreeCharts.  • Participated actively in unit testing, integration testing and acceptance testing of the system.  • Daily updates to clients through teleconferences and formal status updates.    Project: Integrated Credit Underwriting Facility  Environment:  HTML, CSS, Java,J2ee,Struts,Super Action ,JSP,XML,CSS,Weblogic, WSAD, JavaScript and CVS.    This project aims at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the pre-underwriting business process (system support) for the Credit & Surety Treaty Business by leveraging the existing FSBG. However, the current CUF is not fully integrated in the overall FSBG supporting Credit and Surety business, leading to process breaks and double entries. Furthermore, the highly iterative business process is only partly covered and tracked by the current solution, leading to a lack of transparency, a risk of sub-optimal underwriting decisions, and a high effort for the assurance of process and data quality as well as for auditing.  Thus, the overall goal of this project is to provide a solution, which covers, supports and pro-actively guides the overall pre-underwriting business process, seamlessly integrating the existing FSBG and SR Group business applications such as GERMIT, IUF/POR, CMS, EDMS    • Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • This involves gathering information about the requirement, analyzing and preparing the Document of Understanding. It also involves designing the prototype of the requirement using Dream Weaver.  • Actively involved in the coding.  This involves coding of IUF module and writing Utility classes like classes which help in DB connection, string operation, exception handling and logging mechanisms.  • Estimation and impact analysis for the business request.  • Actively involved in the data model design and writing stored procedures.  This involves designing database model for the entire application like creating tables, views and stored procedure.  • Implemented generic classes (reusable) for filtering functionality.  This involves the implementation of filtering functionality (like in Quality center) in both client side (JavaScript) and server side (java).  • Implemented sorting and paginations functionality for entire application.  This involves the implementation of sorting and pagination functionality for displaying the list of values in the screen without hitting the database.  • Participated actively in unit testing, integration testing and acceptance testing of the system.  • Daily updates to clients through teleconferences and formal status updates.  • Actively involved in tuning the application.  • Working with the team in solving technical related issues. Software Developer WISOR TELECOM March 2005 to November 2006 Customer: Verizon-East and SBC US    Project: Exchange Path  Environment:  HTML, CSS , ANT,MAVEN, Java,J2ee,JSP,Struts,XML,Eclipse,Weblogic, JavaScript and CVS.    This is an electronic interconnectivity Gateway to provide connectivity to other software that facilitate real-time coordination of activities required to provision communication services. This Gateway product is enhanced to incorporate several features to enable the SMS clients as well as Service Providers with more flexible activities like encryption of data during transfer of data, support for Service Provider specific choice for archiving the transactions and provisioning Ordering through ASR. The EDI/ASR interface (WisorGate) will support any network ordering to any Trading Partner. This module receives XML files from any client, which adheres to its DTD and generates an EDI/ASR/LSR file out of it as per the Trading Partner specifications. This file is sent to the Service Provider over FTP, WIA, SOAP, SMTP etc based on their interface. When a response or jeopardy response comes back the same is picked up from the FTP server etc and then translated into a XML file which can then be used by any client.  • Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  This involves gathering information about the requirement, analyzing and preparing the Document of Understanding.  • Implemented XML parser classes for validating the input xml for the Gateway.  • Involved in business components programming.  • Involved with client interaction during in customization of our product as per client requirements.  • Involved in unit testing and integrated testing of the application.  • Actively involved in the process of deployment.  • Daily updates to clients through teleconferences and formal status updates.  • Actively Involved in tuning the application.  • Actively involved in clustering of the application using web logic.  This involves writing customized classes for MBeans for clustering the application using Web Logic    Project: Wisor Validator  Environment:  HTML, CSS, Java,ANT, J2ee,Struts, XML, Eclipse,Weblogic, JavaScript and CVS.    Wisor validator is a testing tool. It is used to test the backend system of Trading Partner. It is used by telecom Service providers. Wisor validator right now is used by Verizon-east , Verizon-west, Quest and Sprint in US to test their backend system, before sending the request. Validator consists of four modules, such as Order Test Case Management, Pre-Order Test Case Management, Runset Management and Administrator Management.  A testcase is an XML document used to send request. Each test case has a purchase order number by which it is identified. Before sending an actual request some validations should be done such as address validation, services offered. For this purpose a pre-order testcase is created. After getting a response from trading partner a order test case is created .A runset is logical grouping of test cases. After creating testcases , they can be issued/send to the service provider through wisor interconnection gateway validator.It internally uses Wisor interconnection gateway to transmit messages and to receive responses .Testcases can be issued individually or in a group. Wisor interconnection Gateway uses various protocols such as HTTP, WIA, FTP and SMTP to transmit and receive messages. The various Translators are used to translate XML to EDI and vice-versa. Security frame work is provided in the administrator module. Users can be created by admin and can be assigned to various groups. Various function like copy, delete, issue, viewing errors etc are provided for testcase and runset. For testcase and runset history is provided so that one can know the details like when testcase was created, issued, modified etc.    • Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • This involves gathering information about the requirement, analyzing and preparing the Document of Understanding.  • Actively involved in the coding which involves writing action classes, EJB services and XML Parsers.  • Involved in business components programming.  • Involved with client interaction during in customization of our product as per client requirements.  • Involved in unit testing and integrated testing of the application.  • Actively involved in the process of deployment.  Involved with client interaction during in customization of our product as per client requirements. Software Developer TRIANGLE SOLUTIONS June 2003 to March 2005 Project: Human Resource Management System  Human Resource Portal is meant for managing human resource related activities in an organization. This is an intranet application where the users are within the organization. HR Portal provides access to a complete range of human resource functionality through a single point of contact. It offers organizations the ability to manage their entire human resource function easily and effectively. It allows both managers and employees to conveniently access information about their leaves availability and appraisals. It helps organizations support their employees' needs to balance work and life. It provides the ability to manage their entire HR and benefits functions easily and effectively    • Developed different JSP documents as well as html files for different modules.  • Involved in the creation of main page of the project.  • Involved in developing the forms related to employee check-in and check-out times.  • Involved in unit testing and integrated testing of the application.    Project: Online Banking  This is a system which serves the people in the way that they have no need to go to the bank where the bank is located, they can make all the transactions and interactions with the bank through internet. This facilitates the people to make all their financial transactions such as Payments, funds transfer, D.D issuing, opening accounts, closing accounts, Loans and Fixed deposits, check book seeking, stop payment, schedule payments and recurring payments. This system has a wealth of reports for all levels of operations like Cashier reports, Balance sheet, Trial balance, Ledgers etc and has a wide range of banking spectrum like Cashier, Passing Officer and Administrator.    • Developed different JSP documents as well as html files for different modules.  • Involved in the creation of main page of the project.  • Developed different Jsp documents, ejb components as well as html files for different activities.  • Involved in unit testing and integrated testing of the application.    Project: Health Claim System  Health Claim System is an ASP (Application service Provider) for Multi Purpose Health Centre. It acts an interface between provider and Payer system. The provider and payer will register with the system. Provider can submit patient details to specific payer. This system maintains the claim sub systems 2360, 1500. Providers can submit their claim form using Data Entry format, batch process format. Collect patient information and service details from the user and validates through KRules (the rules created in KRules Engine by the provider) and stores into the database    • Developed different JSP documents as well as html files for different modules.  • Involved in the creation of main page of the project.  • Involved in coding of JAVA Classes, Servlets Education Bachelor of Technology Computer Science & Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh April 2003 Skills Ruby on Rails (9 years), Angular JS (2 years), JavaScript (8 years), Java (5 years), HTML5 (4 years), JQuery (4 years), Redis (2 years), Mongo DB (2 years), Heroku (2 years), AWS (1 year), Mysql (5 years), Postgres (2 years), Angular Material Design (Less than 1 year), GitHub (4 years), Bitbucket (3 years), Angular2/4 (2 years), React (Less than 1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:  Languages: Ruby on Rails (Rails 2 , Rails 3 and Rails 4), Java/J2ee, JSP/Servlets, EJB, JDBC, HTML and HTML 5  Databases: MYSQL, MongoDB and Oracle 8X/9i/10g.  Tools: VSS, CVS, SVN, Github(GIT), Bitbucket, Jenkins, iTerm2, Zsh and JIRA  Application Servers: Weblogic 8.1/9.1,Websphere 5.1.2 ,WebRick, Passenger and Mongrel  Search Engines: Apache Solr , Lucene and Exalead  Scripting Languages: Java Script, JQuery, Backbone.js,Twitter Bootstrap, Zurb Foundation,CSS3  Web Frameworks: Rails ,Struts, Spring and ZK  IDE: Eclipse IDE,RAD 6, RAD RAILS, Aptana, Sublime Text 3, and Jdeveloper  Ruby Gems: Devise, Will Paginate,Paper Clip,Mini Magick, HAML, Ruby Open ID, Nokogiri,  OAuth,Capastrino,Cucumber,Private_hub,Paper Clip,SAVON ,SOAP4R,Twitter BootStrap, Grape API, Garner, Redis,Twitter and Bundler