Sr System Analyst Sr System Analyst Sr. Software Developer Irving, TX A Senior .Net Developer/Lead Programmer and a result oriented professional with proven expertise in implementation of business requirements with an exceptional record in execution of all phases of SDLC Life Cycle involving Fortune 500 companies.  ? Around 11 years of experience in System Analysis, Design, Development, Deployment, Testing & Implementation of Web Applications using Microsoft technology stack  ? Experienced in Agile SCRUM development, Waterfall, Iterative methodologies including Test driven development.  ? Extensive experience in developing windows/web applications using C#, Win forms, ASP.NET, MVC, and ADO.NET technologies.  ? Expertise in front-end application development using JQuery, Java Script, AJAX and HTML, Angular JS  ? Extremely strong in Microsoft Visual Studio, TFS, SVN, SM7, .NET Framework, Entity Framework and LINQ.  ? Strong Understanding of N-tier architecture and Hands on experience in SOA using web services, WCF and WebApi.  ? Worked with ADO.NET objects such as connection object, command object, Data Reader Object, Dataset Object and Data Adapter Object  ? Responsible for Migration, Maintenance and addition of new features to the existing system and development of new tools.  ? Strong knowledge in C# with experience in implementing latest features in object oriented application design (OOD) and debugging to analyze root cause and troubleshoot issues.  ? Experienced in usage of T-SQL queries, Stored procedures, Functions, Indexes, Triggers and Constraints to the Database to achieve high performance and Package creation skills using Microsoft Integration Services (SSIS) with proficiency.  ? Hands on Experience & Involvement in working on vulnerability scan issues (Static & Dynamic) related to resolving Security & Compliance issues.  ? Responsible for creating low level design and implementation of various Design patterns.  ? Experience involving Banking & financial, Manufacturing & Retail and Travel & Hospitality sectors.  ? Highly Organized with effective communication & problem-solving skills involving guiding and directing the offshore teams. Ability to work as a team player and as an individual Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Sr System Analyst 7-Eleven, Retail - Irving, TX December 2018 to Present 7-Eleven is an American-Japanese international chain of convenience stores, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, that operates franchises and licenses some 68,236 stores in 17 countries.    Primary project area involves work on the Development Forum and Project Forum portals which encompasses the remodeling, construction, maintenance, Acquisition, Equipment tracking, buying back of 7-Eleven stores.    This involves management of compensation cycle of all store and non-store employees, Handling of SSRS reports for facilitating web-access for end user ad-hoc reporting needs, Scheduling and distribution of production reports, Usage of tools to track change requests using email based workflow and COTS application to reconcile transactions and accounts i.e., credit cards, debit cards, lottery, phone cards, cash, bank accounts, etc. for viewing the reconciliation results and credit card transactions.    Role & Responsibilities:  • Production support for Finance and store applications of 7Eleven. This will involve end to end support of all business functionalities associated with the accounting software utilized by the client.  • Supporting all business interfaces associated with 7Eleven's finance and store applications. This will mean ensuring all associated applications/systems are able to interact with the software in order to continue the day-to-day business.  • Applying IT skills to help business resolve issues with the business functionality and software application.  • Interaction with business users to understand their requirements and provide valid solutions to help them achieve their daily tasks with minimal effort.  • Development and the associated testing of new applications which helps in enhancing business performance.  • Interaction with third party vendors for resolution of problems. She will be working with software vendors to identify the solution for any problems associated with the given accounting software or other systems interacting with this software.  Environment: C#, ASP.NET, MVC, ADO.NET, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, WCF & SVN, Windows Server 2008/2012, T-SQL Sr. Software Developer Alaska Airlines - Seattle, WA May 2017 to November 2018 Alaska Airlines is an American airline headquartered in Seattle and counted as the fifth biggest airline in United States with flights to more than one hundred destinations in the United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Canada, Costa Rica, Cuba and Mexico. The airline is a major air carrier and along with its sister airlines Horizon Air and Virgin America is part of the Alaska Air Group.    ACOil application is used to record the oil filled for each aircraft and calculates the burn rates of the engines for completed flight. It also stores APU burn rates during the service maintenance of Non-flight. It's is mainly used by maintenance controllers.    Role & Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design, implementation, code review, testing and deployment of the application.  • Designing user interface for ASP.net web application and implementing application logic using C#  • Involved in development of web based GUI screens with HTML, CSS.  • Working on Restful services for storing and retrieving data from backend.  • Working on code reviews, working on optimizing the code, and improving the site performance.  • Using N-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and coding using C# along with preparation of technical documents.  • Usage of VSTO as source control and implementing work items to track and solve the assigned user stories and bugs.  • Installation and integration of SQL Server on Development and Production regions, along with the setting up of databases, users, roles and permissions.  • Involved in creating Technical Design Documents of the application modules.  • Working on SQL server database and to enhance the performance by introducing many stored procedures and indexes on the tables.  • Create, review and manage automated tests using the framework and Creating unit tests for to testing functionality.  • Managing and actively coordinating with Offshore and Customer.  Environment: C#, ASP.NET, Entity Framework, VSTO, SQL Server 2017(Azure), Restful services Sr. Software Developer JP Morgan Chase, Banking & Financial Services - Columbus, OH September 2014 to April 2017 JP Morgan Chase is a multinational investment bank and financial services company with interests in investment banking, asset management, private banking and private wealth management and is considered the largest bank in the United States.    The Rep Reassignment Tool is used by Market Directors to assign advisors to accounts. The purpose of the project is to re-platform and build the tools on a new system with enhancements to improve user efficiency, functionality and introduce new rep reassignment rules.    As the existing tool is in Classic ASP, need to be re-platform and build using ASP.net 2012 and SQL server 2012    Responsibilities:  • Create prototype and demonstrate the deliverables quickly based on team use cases and create the design to enhance the application to next higher version.  • Migrating source code to up-to-date .NET technologies.  • Working on code reviews and mentoring team members, work to optimize the code and improving the site performance which involves the implementation of code contracts.  • Involved in Application modeling using UML and working with user stories and create class and other diagrams.  • Working with JSON in Client side and extractions of data using ADO.NET.  • Usage of MVC4 and ASP.NET for developing the web application and N-tier architecture for presentation layer. The Business and Data Access Layers all were coded using C# along with the preparation of technical documents.  • Used SVN as source control and implementing work items to track and solve the assigned bugs.  • Installation and integration of SQL Server on Development and Production Servers, setting up databases, users, roles and permissions.  • Working on SQL server database, enhance the performance by introducing many stored procedures and indexes on the tables.  • Implemented Test automation framework using VS2012 and C#.NET.  • Create and review and manage automated tests using the framework and created unit tests for to test functionality.  • Reporting & fixing of issues in product development phase and usage of JIRA for bug tracking.  • Managed offshore team and actively coordinated with onsite team and client for clarifications.  • Involved in project creation metrics and Tasks for the team and coordinated with SQA towards project quality.  Environment: C#, .NET, MVC4, .NET 4.5, ADO.NET, Web API, JSON, T-SQL, SQL Server 2012 & SQL Express, Coded UI, SVN. Sr. Software Developer UBS, Banking & Financial Services March 2012 to October 2013 UBS AG is a Swiss multinational investment bank and financial services company, incorporated  In Zurich, Switzerland which provides wealth management, asset management and investment banking services for private, corporate, and institutional clients worldwide.  The Cash Management application manages inbound event feed from BOXER and MOR. It has the capability to capture feed events directly from Boxer and MOR and allow business user to input events manually.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design, implementation, code review, testing and deployment of the application.  • Designed user interface for ASP.net web forms and implemented application logic using C#  • Involved in development of web based GUI screens with HTML, CSS.  • Worked on code reviews, worked to optimize the code, and improving the site performance.  • Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and all were coded using C#, prepared technical documents.  • Used ADO.NET and its Objects to communicate the SQL Server 2008 database and to access data.  • Used SVN as source control and implementing work items to track and solve the assigned bugs.  • Installation and integration of SQL Server on Development and Production Servers, setting up databases, users, roles and permissions.  • Involved in creating Technical Design Documents of the application modules.  • Working on SQL server database, enhance the performance by introducing many stored procedures and indexes on the tables.  • Create and review and manage automated tests using the framework and Created unit tests for to test functionality.  • Used Quality Center for effective defect tracking and Bug fixing.  • Managed actively coordinated with onsite team and client for clarifications.  Environment: C#, ASP.NET, .NET, ADO.NET, T-SQL, QC, SVN, SQL Server 2012 & SQL Express. Sr. Software Engineer KONE June 2011 to February 2012 KONE founded in 1910 and headquartered in Helsinki, Finland, is an international engineering and service company employing some 49,000 personnel worldwide. The firm is the 4th largest manufacturers of elevators and escalators worldwide.  The Project Portfolio Management Tool is a software platform specifically ordered by and delivered for KONE R&D. At the time of writing, it contains several modules used by R&D personnel to carry out daily tasks of crucial importance. The platform is arranged into independent modules that have, administratively, different owners.    Responsibilities:  • Alone responsible for tickets raised in SM7 tool as part of support for the application  • Responsible for deployment activities in QA and Production server  • Responsible for ownership of tickets raised in SM7.    SPD is the global tool to follow up sourcing projects across all KONE units, which report sourcing savings.  SPD will support the sourcing project reporting in providing improved, cross-unit consistent and more up to data reports on sourcing projects. Making the projects reports available to all on-line (all being defined by user access). Reducing time required for reporting (no need to support the excel-based USRFs) and budget preparation.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design, implementation, code review, testing and deployment of the application.  • Designed user interface for ASP.net web forms and implemented application logic using C#  • Involved in development of web based GUI screens with HTML, CSS.  • Worked on code reviews, worked to optimize the code, and improving the site performance.  • Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and all were coded using C#, prepared technical documents.  • Used ADO.NET and its Objects to communicate the SQL Server 2008 database and to access data.  • Used TFS as source control and implementing work items to track and solve the assigned bugs.  • Installation and integration of SQL Server on Development and Production Servers, setting up databases, users, roles and permissions.  • Involved in creating Technical Design Documents of the application modules.  • Working on SQL server database, enhance the performance by introducing many stored procedures and indexes on the tables.  • Create and review and manage automated tests using the framework and Created unit tests for to test functionality.  • Used Quality Center for effective defect tracking and Bug fixing.  • Managed actively coordinated with onsite team and client for clarifications.  Environment: C#, ASP.NET, .NET, ADO.NET, T-SQL, QC, TFS, SQL Server 2012 & SQL Express. Software Engineer Tech Mahindra December 2006 to July 2010 My Content Portal is an updated & developing knowledge repository containing standard content, templates and tools to enhance the quality of proposals and aid in Proposal architecting. One can find Content logically arranged and neatly classified for retrieval and reuse.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design, implementation, code review, testing and deployment of the application.  • Designed user interface for ASP.net web forms and implemented application logic using C#  • Involved in development of web based GUI screens with HTML, CSS.  • Used 3-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and all were coded using C#.  • Used ADO.NET and Objects to communicate the SQL Server 2008 database to access data.  • Installation and integration of SQL Server on Development and Production Servers, setting up databases, users, roles and permissions.  • Used Bugzilla for effective defect tracking and Bug fixing.  • Involved in coordinating with QA team to setup test environment.  • Involved in coordinating with DB team to setup and host application on production server.  • Prepared the production deployment steps.  • Involved in creating Technical Design Documents of the application modules.  • Working on SQL server database, enhance the performance by introducing many stored procedures and indexes on the tables.  • Created unit test cases to test functionality.  Environment: C #, ASP.NET, .NET 2.0, ADO.NET, T-SQL, SQL Server 2005 & SQL Express.    Tech Mahindra (Formerly Satyam Computer Services)  Software Engineer Dec 2006 to July 2010  A project may consist of number of deliverables, which may/may not to undergo an assessment before the delivery. To enhance the quality of the deliverables and the keep a track of the delivery timelines, various role players get together and shortlist Projects (registered in OPTIMA), which need to undergo assessment before delivery, the team responsible for assessing the same is called the C1 team and the Process is called the C1 Assessment. Web service is developed for sharing the information to different applications through the XML. Created web service with methods that provide the project information based on project wise.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design, implementation, code review, testing and deployment of the application.  • Designed user interface for ASP.net web forms and implemented application logic using C#  • Involved in development of web based GUI screens with HTML, CSS.  • Used 3-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and all were coded using C#.  • Used ADO.NET and its Objects to communicate the SQL Server 2008 database and to access data.  • Installation and integration of SQL Server on Development and Production Servers, setting up databases, users, roles and permissions.  • Involved in creating Technical Design Documents of the application modules.  • Working on SQL server database, enhance the performance by introducing many stored procedures and indexes on the tables.  • Created unit test cases to test functionality.  • Used Bugzilla for effective defect tracking and Bug fixing.  • Involved in coordinating with QA team to setup test environment.  • Involved in coordinating with DB team to setup and host application on production server.  • Prepared the production deployment steps.  Environment: C #, ASP.NET, .NET 2.0, ADO.NET, T-SQL, SQL Server 2005 & SQL Express. Education Master's in Computer Science Skills Ado, Ado.net, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql, Ajax, Asp, Iis, Asp.net, Visual studio, C#, Javascript, Wcf, Svn, Xml, T-sql, Mvc, jquery, R2, Rdbms, .Net, Angular Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: C#, T-SQL and XML.  Technologies: ASP.NET, Win forms, MVC, ADO.NET, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery and WCF  BI: Microsoft SSIS  RDBMS: SQL Express, SQL server 2008/2008 R2/2010.  Operating System: Windows XP/7 and Windows Server 2008/2012.  IDE: Visual studio, IIS.  Version Control: TFS and SVN.  Patterns: MVC, Inversion of controls