Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer Hillside, NJ Outstanding Java developer with proven expertise in object-oriented analysis and design. Exceptional record overseeing all facets of the software development life cycle and mentoring other developers. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Am Yisrael Chai Foundation - Cedarhurst, NY October 2018 to April 2019 Designed and developed and deployed Java applications   Developed and executed test scenarios  Developed reports for analysis Senior Software Developer iConectiv - Bridgewater, NJ March 2014 to September 2018 Developed business logic code for JMS based application using message driven and stateless session  beans on JBoss and A-MQ platform  • Managed database interaction with Hibernate  • Implemented JRebel to increase productivity in Java IDE environment  • Implemented automated testing strategy using JUnit and JMockit Assistant Vice President Applications Engineering / Lead Developer Sotheby's - New York, NY July 1999 to January 2014 • Managed a team of software developers through all stages of application development.  • Worked directly with business users to translate business requirements into functional specifications.  • Designed, developed and implemented multiple Java web applications using Agile methodology  (SCRUM). Applications included the client management, cataloging, valuations, security  management systems and the Sothebys.com website.  • Developed and deployed Restful web services for communication with external systems (SAP and Adobe CQ).  • Deployed web applications on Weblogic, Glassfish and Tomcat using Oracle for the data store.  • Developed and deployed online auction website using J2EE on Weblogic application server with an Oracle back end. Software Developer BellSouth Wireless Data - Woodbridge, NJ August 1996 to July 1999 Upgraded and implemented 'Traffic Analysis' and 'Customer Management' applications using  PowerBuilder and JAM7 respectively (each with a Sybase back end).  • Managed data integrity with triggers and stored procedures.  • Developed C++ application for "traffic log" summarization.  • Created and automated data reconciliations. Senior Analyst/Help desk Supervisor BellSouth Wireless Data - Woodbridge, NJ June 1994 to August 1996 Designed, implemented and managed centralized help desk for all computer and network related  problems.  • Installed and maintained trouble ticketing and reporting system.  • Developed and implemented network maintenance and upgrade plans. Education Bachelor of Science in Physics State University of New York at Albany - Albany, NY Skills Ajax (5 years), Java (10+ years), JMS (4 years), JUnit (4 years), Oracle (10+ years), Javascript, Git Additional Information Development Skills:  Java REST JUnit/JMockit/Mockito Rally  JSP/Servlets Hibernate JRebel JIRA  JMS JavaScript CSS SPLUNK  Agile Scrum Prototype JSON CVS, Subversion, Git  Oracle SQL/PL-SQL Ajax XML UNIX  JDBC HTML Eclipse Shell scripting