Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Delta Data Franklin, MA I'm an experienced .Net, SQL and JavaScript developer looking to continue my programmer career. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Delta Data August 2016 to Present Project: FundBlast - the connection portal that allows for secure communication between Funds and their distributors (broker-dealers and fund service providers).    Tools: Visual Studio 2017, Resharper, SQL Studio, Git, SVN.  Responsibilities:  - Partial product architecture.    - Full stack development: DAL, BLL, UI, using ASP.NET MVC, EF, SQL, JavaScript, Jquery, HTML, CSS, LESS.    - PDF reports using PDFLib.    - Excel Reports using LibXL.    - Regular DEV-Ops tasks, applications deployment automation using PowerShell and SQL scripts.    - Configuration and support SAML connections using ComponentSpace.    - Regular meetings with product management and development team.  Senior Software Developer Lead Developer WSFS Bank June 2016 to August 2016 Kofax, a Lexmark company March 2013 to June 2016 Project: Insight BI. Operational BI platform designed to help organizations improve decision making and performance while radically reducing the time and cost normally associated with business intelligence  (BI) projects.  Examples: http://www.kofax.com/products/business-intelligence-and-analytics/kofax-insight/demos-intro  Tools: Visual Studio 2015, Git, TFS    Responsibilities:  - Leading a group of 5 developers.    - Overall product architecture.    - Developing a variety of components in a single-page ASP.NET application based on JavaScript, Typescript, HTML5/CSS and JQuery. Including complex UI elements, business logic on client  side and client-server communications (AJAX). Building the end-users dashboard application  core (JavaScript). Integrating Highcharts controls. Support mobile devices and touch screens in general.    - Unit testing of client side business logic (Jasmine).    - Building WCF (JSON) Services in C#: service interfaces (DataContract serialization) and business logic. PDF reports generation (using dbAutoTrack). Server side dashboard snapshot  generation web service (using PhantomJS). Auto-generation of C# classes to JavaScript/Typescript mapping (.NET Reflection).    - Code review.    - Regular meetings with product management, marketing and development team.    - Providing assistance to sales engineers, professional services and support team. Senior Software Developer Altosoft Inc April 2005 to March 2013 Developing business intelligence and analytics software.    Tools: Visual Studio, SVN, Jira  Responsibilities:  - Overall product architecture.    - Participating in all product meetings with the development team.    - Developing a single-page ASP.NET application based on Silverlight.    - Creating standalone WPF applications.  - Implementing data layer: querying SQL Server, Oracle and MySQL. Getting data and metadata  using .NET, OleDb and ODBC providers. Working with the data in XML format (XML  serialization).    - Building WCF (SOAP) services in C#: service interfaces and business logic. Client-server  communications using the same C# classes on server and on client side.    - Creating standalone windows applications based on .NET WinForms. Software Developer Gazinformservice December 2002 to December 2004 Tools: Visual Studio.  Responsibilities:  Design and implementation of Windows security application. Developing a VxD driver in C and a graphical user interface of a standalone application. Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Processing and Management Automated Systems Saint-Petersburg State University of Aerospace Instrumentation 1998 to 2004 Skills Asp, Css, Asp.net, .net, C#, Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/karavashkin Additional Information KEY SKILLS    .NET (C#), ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, SQL, SVN, Git, TFS.