handling events scheduler handling events scheduler handling events scheduler Fairfield, IA Highly skilled .NET developer with more than 10 years of intensive experience collaborating and leading the progress of analysis, design, development, and testing of multiple applications through all stages of development cycles in varied business environments. Significant strengths in identifying issues and pro-actively solving problems, allowing detailed system analysis and planning to meet project requirements. Strong team leader with excellent communication skills and the ability to build quality solutions for using modern technologies such as C#, ASP.NET MVC, WCF, Entity Framework, MS SQL, Angular, Node.js, and Express.js Work Experience handling events scheduler Events Hub, MUM June 2019 to June 2019 create event, and write comments on it.  Technologies used: Angular 7, Node.js, Express.js, CSS, MongoDB, Git, Angular Material, JSON. Student Events Hub, MUM - Fairfield, IA March 2019 to March 2019 Worked with 4-member team to develop web app for managers to follow-up on project progress for team members.  Technologies used: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, Java, Servlet, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, MVC, IntelliJ, and Git. Student Schedule Registration System, MUM February 2019 to February 2019 Worked with team of 4 to design / develop course registration and creation process application for students and faculty. Project included analysis of requirements, architecture, and use case, and design of architecture, use case, subsystem, and class. Technologies used: Java, Spring Boot, Hibernate, HTML, MVC, IntelliJ, and Git. Senior .NET Developer GERMAN AUTO SERVICE (GAS) - Cairo, EG August 2015 to October 2018 Developed new requirements and fixing bugs by prioritizing tasks in alignment with management vision. Lead team in development to achieve required tasks. Gather requirements and deliver updates / presentations. Key developer implementing and integrating the .NET systems though advanced .Net technologies.  Tasks Performed:  • Design, develop, and implement dealer management system using C#/.NET.  • Prioritized and assigned coding tasks to varied team members, based on areas of expertise and task demands, providing technical assistance as needed to team and internal customers.  • Pro-actively identify potential problems and initiate effective resolution.  • Performed unit testing and peer review for development team.  • Delivered projects on-time and within budget as a result of collaboration with other teams, consistent communication with clients, ability to remove potential impediments, and use of best practices.  Achievements:  • Integrated Mercedes-Benz office / warehouse application to seamlessly order parts for service, enter and track all orders, parts, and availability.  • Created reports to identify parts needed, and for top management to facilitate decision-making.  • Developed module to track labor hours and hourly rate by procedure to allow calculation of productive hours for each and send data to HR.  Technologies Used: C# .Net, ADO.Net, Asp.Net MVC, Entity Framework, Windows service, web service, Crystal Reports, DevExpress, .Net WinForms, FTP connection, Microsoft SQL Server 208, Microsoft Visual Studio, and Windows server 2003/2008/2016.  641-819-8053 • ahmed.elsabagh767@gmail.com • https://www.linkedin.com/in/ahmedelsabagh Senior Software Developer ITS-GBS - Cairo, EG June 2014 to August 2015 Cairo, Egypt • June 2014 - August 2015  Leading provider of cutting-edge integrated information technology solutions to government and industry across the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and globally.    Senior Software Developer  Developed software solutions after careful analysis of information needs / systems flow / data usage / work processes, problem areas, and user conferences.  Tasks Performed:  • Identified and implemented updates based on customer requirements, need for fixes, and collaboration with other teams.  • Performed unit, integration, and system tests.  • Provided technical support and assistance to testers, staff, and team members  • Implemented application on Bank site to create UAT on-site.  Achievements:  • Developed exception handling module that integrated with logging module to pinpoint exception and status of the transaction when exception occurs to enable transaction to continue.  • Implemented comprehensive Data Archiving System on ADIB Bank to facilitate archiving of unused data to a secondary database to allow faster performance of online system.  • Enhanced application performance by separating out archiving process, including consistency checks of data and copying the data.  Technologies Used: C# .Net, WCF, Microsoft Visual Studio, SQL Server 2005/2014, Oracle 11g, Sybase, ADO.Net, windows service, Microsoft Reports, windows server 2008, ALM source control, waterfall process, Agile. Senior .NET Developer ITS-GBS - Cairo, EG April 2012 to June 2014 Performed design, development, and testing functions throughout the entire SDLC.  Tasks Performed:  • Identified software tasks based on detailed determinations about system performance throughout the software development life cycle.  • Reviewed code and investigated potential bugs for resolution, through testing.  • Created comprehensive documentation of code by listing program description, special instructions, and any changes to database tables at procedural, modular, and database levels.  • Provided support / assistance to testers and staff to diagnose system problems.  Achievements:  • Collaborated on large-scale data archiving system to move inactive data to separate storage or DB for long-term retention.  • Implemented Observer Service Module to detect any changes to the file and perform subsequent transactions according to pre-defined configuration.  • Deployed logging module to record any changes on the system to create map of all operational details occurring within the archiving system.  • Reduced the time required by enhancing the build process for the application.  Technologies Used: C# .Net, WCF, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2014, Oracle 11g, Sybase, ADO.Net, windows service, Microsoft Reports, windows server 2008, ALM source control, waterfall process, Agile. .Net Developer INNOWORX, Giza - EG October 2010 to April 2012 Egypt • October 2010 - April 2012  Software development firm providing multiple custom applications to customers in Russian market.  .Net Developer  Achievements:  • Contributed to all aspects of the software development life cycle from planning, design, and development.  • Reduced risk in offshore environment by developing Marine Monitoring System to provide real-time information to operators.  Technologies Used: C# .Net, LINQ, XML, .net Web Services, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft SQL Server 2005, Serial Ports communication, AT Commands, .Net WinForms, Desktop Applications, ADO.Net.  641-819-8053 • ahmed.elsabagh767@gmail.com • https://www.linkedin.com/in/ahmedelsabagh .Net Developer DATATEC - Cairo, EG November 2009 to October 2010 Achievements:  • Developed aspects of pages on Arab Cement Factory application using Silverlight, including full reports for obtaining all weights for individual trucks and number of trucks daily.  • Analyzed Asset Management System and HR Recruitment, including creation of forms.  Technologies Used: C# .Net, Blend, Silverlight, .Net RIA Service, WCF, Asp.net, HTML, Microsoft reports, LINQ, XAML, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft SQL Server 2005, Web application. .Net Developer ABTECH, Mansoura - EG January 2008 to November 2009 Achievements:  • Developed two custom desktop applications, Clinic Management System and Gold Workshop System, individualizing controls to serve client's business needs.  • Developed and implemented several functions on Financial Management Systems.  Technologies Used: C# .Net, Asp.net, Web Forms, JavaScript, Ajax, CSS, .Net WinForms, Microsoft Visual Studio, DevExpress .Net Tools, Microsoft SQL Server 2005, XML, ADO.NET. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in distance education Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA June 2021 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Faculty of Computers & Informatics 2007 Skills .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C#, Design patterns, Git, Javascript, Node.js, Json, Wcf, Winforms, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Software development, Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Sybase Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ahmedelsabagh Additional Information SKILLS    .NET Programming • Java Programming • web development ? C# • ASP.net • MVC • WCF • Web Services •  WinForms ? Software Development Life Cycle ? UML ? Design Patterns • SOA ? SQL • Full Stack ? Team Lead  • Database Development ? Implementation ? Object Oriented Programming ? Data Structures ? Algorithms.    Languages: C# .Net, Java  Web: Asp.net Web Forms, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSP, Angular, CSS, JSON.  Web Services: WCF, Web Service, Express.js  Web and Application Servers: IIS, Tomcat  Frameworks: Asp.net MVC, .Net Framework, Angular, Node.js, Entity Framework  Databases: Microsoft SQL Server, Sybase, Oracle, My SQL, MongoDB  Design Patterns: Command, Chain, Composite, Iterator, Observer, Singleton, State, Facade, Strategy, Template  SDLC: Waterfall, RUP, Agile  Tools: DevExpress, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft SQL Server, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Git, Visual Studio Code  Platforms: Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Server 2016