Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Skorpios Technologies Inc Albuquerque, NM Looking forward for a challenging assignment or position that will tap my talent and skills, which will contribute for the growth of the organization and mine as well. Work Experience Software Engineer Skorpios Technologies Inc - Albuquerque, NM April 2017 to Present Digital Factory Application                                                                          ·      Wrote JSP and Servlets to add functionality to web application based on customer requirements.  ·      Developed UIs with JSP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  ·      Utilized object-oriented programming and Java for creating business logic.  ·      Wrote SQL queries to retrieve data from the database using JDBC.  ·      Created RESTful APIs for increased scalability of the application.  ·      Developed interactive plots using a combination of JavaScript, JSON, and JQUERY.  ·      Created and executed test cases in JUnit for unit testing of application  ·      Worked on full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Experience in Agile software development utilizing Scrum and test based development (TDD) and Waterfall model.  ·      Worked closely with developers to ensure proper design of PostgreSQL database systems.  ·      Proactively searched for and proposed enhancements to processes and development.  ·      Developed code to track and maintain WIP reports with secured layer of authorization.   ·      Facilitated large scale inventory log management and tracking in organization saving $50K per annum.  ·      Displayed the test results with interactive plots and reports downsizing the data collection, analysis and decision-making time from 10 days to 1 day.  ·      Tools and Technologies: Eclipse IDE, Java, spring, JSP, Servlets, REST, JQuery, PostgreSQL, Agile.  Wafer Map Application  ·      Gathered requirements, getting sign-off from the business users and prepared system requirements specification for the solution  ·      Designed and developed user controls using C#.NET, Windows Toolkit.  ·      Developed master forms and handled events between master forms and content forms.  ·      Designed Custom classes for Data Validations, exceptional handling and logging.   ·      Performed code review and generated reports on code review comments and updates.  ·      Built and maintained SQL scripts, indexes, and complex queries for data analysis and extraction.  ·      Implemented authentication for accessing the web-service.   ·      Participated in meetings with operation team and designed the application to automate the entire process reducing the time from 2 days to 3 hours.  ·      Integrated software components and third-party programs to meet specifications.  ·      Tools and Technologies: Visual Studio, C#, MVC, ASP.Net, PostgreSQL, Bartender Suite and SQL.  Workflow Application                                                                      ·      Created and maintained website front-end functionality using jQuery with clean and effective code.   ·      Performed troubleshooting and testing to maintain product software and databases.  ·      Designed to track company’s products flow through the process from the BOM initiation to the shipping of product by the technicians.  ·      Performed FSBU report generation to get the amount spent on a product build including material cost and labor cost.  ·      Digitalized all the manual tracking of the process inside the FAB saving time of Engineer in monitoring and analyzing the process.  ·      Tools and Technologies: PHPStrom, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, MySQL, phpMyAdmin. Software Developer Intern Masti Ticktes - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 to June 2015 India  • Developed application to book tickets for a movie in theatre which is present in and around the premises of the city. Coded the module allowing the users to view the trailer and add ratings for the movies. Improved user interface navigation using modern front-end scripting libraries.  • Tools and Technologies: Visual Studio, C#, ASP.Net, MVC, HTML, CSS, REST, AngularJS and SQL. Education Master of Science in Applied Computer Science Northwest Missouri State University - Maryville, MO December 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics And Communications Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2015 Skills .NET (3 years), AJAX (4 years), AngularJS (Less than 1 year), Apache (2 years), ASP (3 years), ASP.Net (3 years), C# (3 years), Databases (4 years), Eclipse (3 years), Git (3 years), Java (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), JQuery (4 years), JSP (4 years), MS ASP (3 years), MySQL (4 years), PHP (2 years), REST (3 years), SQL. (3 years), Visual Studio (3 years), HTML 5, CSS Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/dineshreddymada Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: C#, Java, Swift, PHP, SQL, MySQL, Python  Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, ASP.NET, MVC5, JSP, JQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, REST, Apache POI, Plotly JS, Node, React, JFree Charts, Spring, Unit Testing.  Databases: SQL server, Oracle 11g, MySQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL.  Operating Systems: Windows, Mac OS.  Tools: Visual Studio, Eclipse, MS Office, Net Beans, XCode, MS Project, Visio 2013, Git, pgAdmin3, phpMyAdmin, PHPStrom.