Senior Software Developer?Team Lead Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>?Team Lead Senior Software Developer?Team Lead - LoanDepot.com Irvine, CA Position as product or project manager, architect, lead or senior software engineer to utilize skills in full software development life cycle for a growth-oriented company that also provides opportunities for professional advancement. Work Experience Senior Software Developer?Team Lead LoanDepot.com March 2014 to Present Net/C#/BootStrap/Angular)  Empower upgrade and add new functions:  1. Add new functions to Mortgage software Empower.  2. Upgrade Empower with customize code to new version.  3. Add advanced log system in Empower.  4. Create web portal to manage backend services.  5. Improved pricing running and other performance.  Train and lead other developers. Senior Software Developer Service Monitor Suites October 2012 to March 2014 Corvel (.Net/C#)  Service Monitor Suites:  6. Windows service to collect performance counter from MSMQ and database.  7. Web portal implemented by .Net MVC 3 to show and configure each counter.  8. Used NInject as IoC  9. Used Mock to do unit test.  10. Unit test each functions.  Enterprise new framework:  1. Use Microsoft Application Block to implement this new framework.  2. Application tier is exposed by WCF and can be hosted as windows services.  3. Use Nunit to implement the IoC with extension menthod.  4. Web tiers is MVC and we are slowly moving from the old web parts.  5. Database access layer is implemented by petapoco which supports multiply databases access.  6. Unit test each functions by using Mock.  7. Use AppFabric to implement cache and session. CTO FutureCareer Beijing - Beijing August 2009 to October 2012 1. Built the IT depart of company, budgeted and planned the goals of IT.  2. Led the team of software engineers to implement new system for the company to use.  3. Promoted employee to be product manager and software application manager to build reporting layers to clean command chain. Senior Software engineer, Project Lead, Department Supervisor May 2004 to October 2012 All-In-One (.Net/C#)  Integrated with client's applications which including the following:  8. PeopleSoft  9. Kenexa/Taleo  10. Ajile ATS  11. RedCarpet  Lead the team to design the system by compiling to HR-Xml. So we can easily reuse our code to integrate with different clients. It saves us lots of time and money. The projects include windows services, web services, and web applications.  • Created web service to take HRXml Data from peoplesoft.  • Process HRXml data and input to our system.  • Generate HRXml report to post back to PeopleSoft.  • Architect the system and manage the team.  • Technologies: Web Service, SOAP, XML Mapping, xslt.  Integrated with vendor's applications which including the following:  1. PDR: For county wide criminal search.  2. ADR: For driver record search.  3. CourtVentrue: For national wide criminal search.  4. Microbilt: For credit, social search.  Lead the team to implement each above project to integrate with our vendor's service. We consumed their web services with different security layers.  • Search criminal records by location and applicant's information.  • Post Xml data by Https, client certificate.  • Generate request Xml from database by using Xslt transform technology.  • Parse the return Xml by using XmlEngine, which handles the updating database directly. This is the most effective method to process Xml to database right now.  • Document with UML tools,  • Create Xslt to show and transform different Xml to our standard Hr-Xml by using Altova's Xml suite.  • Create 3-4 layers to process Xml to database; this strategy will let our design more extendable and reusable.  • Create email notification for each step of workflow  • Architect the system and manage the team.  • Technologies: Web Service, SOAP, XML Mapping, xslt, PGP, SSL.    Company's information automation system.  Lead the team to implement the framework of company's core business. The information automation system is a window application. It provides functions for all company's business needs.  • Windows application base on windows operating system and .Net framework.  • Create customized windows controls to implement own style, and inherited customized controls for different purpose,  • Analyzed system and designed in OOA/OOD, implement with different design patterns.  • Document with UML tools.  • Deploy the project assemble with public signed dll.  • Create 3-4 layers in different assembles to let different projects reuse code.  • Transfer between different XML by using Xslt. We used some tools such as xmlspy, xmlmapping force.  • Architect the system and manage the team.  • Technologies: Winform.  Company's web application.  Lead the team to implement company's new website to allow clients to submit their background requests to us. It heavily reuse the framework we did for the company's information automation system.  • Web application for recruiters to submit background request to us.  • Web portal to let candidate supply their information directly online  • Include client side and server side functions, implemented by using .Net, javascrip and Jquery.  • Created custom controls and user controls. Dynamically load user controls on pages.  • Applied different design patterns.  • Applied Regex on web form validation for international language.  • Back end is Sql Server 2008, created tons of stored procedures.  • Created http handle to process image and PDF rendering.  • Created Ajax calls for most pages to avoid reload the whole page.  • Created Ansynchronized call to let some pages start multi tasks on server side.  • Created a mechanism to only update database with dirty rows even on web form.  • Let page show the correct session variable even opened in new tab in the browser.  • Created tab control to show information.  • Heavily used RadControls.  • Make sure application runs properly under database replication environment.  • Make sure application is compatible with different browsers.  • Architect the system and manage the team.  • Technologies: Web form/Asp.Net, Css2, Javascript.  Design and maintain company's database with replication.  • Designed the database, the size is about 150G now.  • Maintain the stored procedures and review other developer's query.  • Upgrade from sql server 2000 to sql server 2008.  • Technologies: sql server.  Company's new web application for heathcare credentialing check business.  Lead the team to design and implement this new web application, design database and architecture of the application.  • Designed the database under sql server 2008  • Designed the application by multi design patterns: MVC, Service Façade, etc.  • Introduce new technologiese: Entity Framework, LINQ, Generic programming.  • Heavily used Jquery on the client side.  • Compatible with IE7, 8, 9; Firefox and Safari.  • Implemented WCF service between two systems.  • Architect the system and manage the team  • Technologies: Asp.Net/MVC, Css3, Jquery, Ajax.    Manage offshore engineers in India and China.    Publish:  Published 9 papers during master program on optical CDMA area magazien.    Reward:  Employee of Year 2009.  Outstanding employee of Year 2008 Education MSCS Maharashi University of Management - Fairfield, IA MSEE in Communication and Information System Shenzhen University BSEE in Theory of Information Xidian University Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, C++, Delphi, Design patterns, Javascript, Bootstrap, Wcf, Regex, Subversion, Visio, Xml, Xslt, Xml/xslt, Ajax, Css, Mvc, Soap, Database, Java, Linux Certifications/Licenses MCSE March 2004 to Present Additional Information As an experienced senior software engineer with a passion for results, over ten years' experience as software architect and developer using ASP.net, MVC c#; Additional management and leadership skills gained as team lead and department supervisor of All-In-One, LoanDepot.    Overall technical skills  Database SQL Server 200x/2012, MySQL, MangoDB  Operating System Windows 7/Vista/XP/2003/2008/2012  Languages C#, C, C++, Delphi  IDE Visual Studio 2010/2008/2005  Frameworks JQuery, .Net, Entity Framework, LINQ  Design Tools Microsoft Visio, UML  Version Control SourceSafe, Subversion  Web Technology Ajax, Css, Javascript, JQuery, BootStrap, Angular  WebService SOAP, WCF  Cloud Windows Azure, Sql Azure  Makeup Languages XML/XSLT/XPath  Regular expression Regex  Communication CDMA, DWDM, SS7, TDMA, ATM, ISDN, GSM, GPRS, WAP, PBX  Design patterns: MVC, MVP, Dependency Injection and lots of patterns.