Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Capital One Cherry Hill, NJ Work Experience Software Engineer Capital One - New York, NY March 2019 to July 2019 Job Profile:  • Working on infrastructure and automation tools such as ansible to deploy infrastructure and install applications on EC2 instances.  • Deploying the applications to AWS using Dockers for setting up the virtual env and running ansible.  • Supporting test automation, creating test suites, and setting up Jenkins jobs for regular execution of test suites and automated deployment of infrastructure and application to AWS.  • Created new Security groups for communications between the applications. Software Engineer Independence Blue Cross - Philadelphia, PA July 2018 to February 2019 Job Profile:  • Developing Chat Bot using Amazon Lex and AWS Lambda Functions in Python. Used Google API's and Wikipedia API's for searching nearby locations and provide speech response for directions. Implemented Text to speech and vice-versa using HTML5 Speech recognition API.  • Developed Web Services using Spring Boot application with JPA  • Created Automated Suite to test the front end React.js application using Selenium and assertions against the database  • Supported and optimized the react.js app developed using create-react-app.  • Code Deployment to Servers and infrastructure maintenance (Jboss. Tomcat).  • Working on Enterprise search application using Elastic Search. Software Engineer JP Morgan & Chase April 2017 to June 2018 Job Profile:  • Developed Kafka Consumer and Producer utilities for Event Triggering module used to feed the Data Pipeline for customer targeted advertisements.  • Developed helper classes, step definitions and feature files for Automated framework to support messaging services.  • Developing Automated Scripts to test the Rest/SOAP API's using Spring, RestAssured, SOAP UI. These test scripts also involve extensive amount of assertions to check the Database persistency  • Creating Mock services in DevTest and Cloud Gaia which is based on Cloud Foundry.  • Code Deployment to Servers and infrastructure maintenance.  • Effectively converted the legacy DevTest Scripts to Automated Test Scripts in Java  • Practicing ATDD using Cucumber and working in a T-shaped environment.  • Responsible for creating test plan, Automated testing the code in all the environments, supporting business testing.  • Practical knowledge of automated testing tools such as TestNG and Appium  • Developed BDD (Gherkins) Scripts in Java using homegrown framework based on Selenium & Appium for testing Android and iOS application, also developed functionalities as needed for testing purposes  • Behavior-driven Development for Automating the stories in the sprint. Writing feature files, page objects, step definitions, and page actions Software Developer Synchronoss Technologies, Bridgewater-NJ - Malvern, PA September 2016 to March 2017 Worked and collaborated as a Java Developer with Automation Quality Assurance team to rollout strategies targeted towards developing test scripts and framework for testing Android Applications. Personally responsible for creating developing test framework based on Appium in Java and reporting bugs. Assist in new technology assessments and implement innovative framework improvements along with optimizing the test flows.  Key Accomplishments:  • Working as a Java developer on the RI (reference implementation) architecture components used across the organization. Responsible for increasing code coverage with functional and unit tests to more than 85% on the Handler Framework components.  • Developed Test Scripts in Java for Personal Cloud and Mobile Content Transfer applications which are built upon the framework created using Appium (Automation testing framework) and TestNG (Java Testing Framework).  • Using the Agile technique of Continuous Integration to automate build and deploy processes. Managed builds, tests, and releases together in a single workflow using Bamboo that is integrated with JIRA for planning, tracking and reporting purposes.  • Effectively facilitated creation of web application for Virtual Lobby Attendant using Java, JavaScript, AngulasJS, HTML, and CSS. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science NEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - Newark, NJ Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering GUJARAT TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY Skills Android studio, Cucumber, Docker, Git, Python, Numpy, Pandas, Junit, Testng, Android, Soap, Java, Apache kafka, Kafka, Machine learning, Maven, Ui, Pl/sql, Sql, Rest Additional Information Skills  Java, Python, R Programming, Octave, Matlab, Machine Learning, Numpy, Pandas, Scikit-Learn, SQL, PL/SQL, Junit, TestNG, Appium, IntelliJ, Maven, Git, Continuous Integration, ADB (Android Debug Bridge), Android Studio, SourceTree, Cucumber, REST Assured, Soap UI, Cloud GAIA, Apache Kafka, DevTest, Ansible, Docker, AWS Lambda, AWS Lex, AWS Cloudformation