Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - University of Pittsburgh, Department of Human Genetics Pittsburgh, PA Work Experience Software Developer University of Pittsburgh, Department of Human Genetics February 2016 to February 2019 C++ Development  ? Used object oriented C++ skills in order to develop new features for Mega2, a suite for transforming genetic data.  ? Improved my C++ skills in order to accomplish the creation of new features and to incorporate external tools.  ? Learned more advanced C++ debugging skills to resolve issues that arose.  New Mega2 Features Created  ? Implemented and designed new output modes for Mega2 including BCF/VCF file format, MQLS-XM/KinInbcoef.  ? Refactored input and output methods into Mega2 to incorporate the newer BCFTools library.  ? Added functionality to Mega2 to incorporate reference panels into genetic data.  ? Wrote a pipeline for imputation of Mega2 inputted genetic data using MaCH, Minimac3 and Shapeit.  Team Development  ? Worked with a small team simultaneously to accomplish complex goals.  ? Utilized Git and Bitbucket in order to foster simultaneous development.  ? Wrote user and developer documentation of Mega2. Software Developer University of Pittsburgh, Center for Craniofacial and Dental Genetics August 2012 to January 2016 PHP/Drupal Development  ? Learned PHP for general-purpose web based development on projects.  ? Learned Drupal to participate in module development for the FaceBase website.  ? Utilized skills in PHP, Drupal, MySQL, and jQuery in order to build modules.  Scientific Tool Development  ? Created an image browser for quick inspection of 3d image data from slices.  ? Constructed a plotting tool for representation of microRNA data.  ? Created a tool for filtering human phenotypic data for craniofacial measurements.  ? Built a tool in order to create Manhattan plots, and LocusZoom plots of GWAS data.  ? Used Snap Survey to construct electronic forms to collect phenotype data.  Internal Support  ? Created internal tools and completed tasks for various requests for departmental use this: included report creation, automated plotting of data, file manipulation, PLINK analysis.  ? Used C#, Java, C++, R, Python, VB in the construction of these internal tools.  ? Continued to update and maintain these applications and scripts as need arose. Software Engineer Allegheny Health System - West Penn, PA October 2011 to April 2012 C#.NET Developer  ? Utilized C#, ASP.net, and the MVC framework to create a physician's signout system.  ? Created an application for submitting employee clinical data to insurances.  ? Developed software used by the help desk in order to aid in user support.  Application Support  ? Actively worked with physician's beta testing our new developed signout system.  ? Completed bug fixes reported by end users.  Team Development  ? Worked on SCRUM teams in order to accomplish large goals with strong organization.  ? Utilized source control methodologies to facilitate simultaneous development. Undergraduate Researcher/Programmer University of Pittsburgh, Department of Physics and Astronomy February 2008 to April 2011 Physics Modeling  ? Applied computational programming in C language to calculate complex integration loops confirming the detectability of a gravity wave signature from the early universe.  Computation Programming  ? Leveraged extensive database language from the GNU Scientific Library to enhance the robustness of models.  ? Applied programming skills I learned during my research in order to improve numerical methods used.  ? Conducted model validation using Calculus, Differential Equations, Linear Algebra and Tensor Analysis.  Team Contributor  ? Contributed presentations to weekly science meetings within our department. This included paper discussions as well as progress on internal individual/group projects.  ? Worked within a group focused on running magnetohydrodynamic simulations. Education Bachelor of Science in Physics and Astronomy, Mathematics University of Pittsburgh, School of Arts and Sciences August 2007 to April 2011 Skills C, C++, Programming, C#, Python, MySQL, SQL, PHP, NET, Computer Science, Linux, Java, Javascript, Physics, Mathematics, Git, jQuery, HTML 5, TensorFlow, R, Drupal, PyTorch