Lead Data Developer Lead Data <span class="hl">Developer</span> Business Intelligence Developer Glen Ellyn, IL A detail-oriented Business Intelligence Developer with 4 years of work experience seeks to work as a Business Intelligence Developer and design, develop, and deploy BI reports in the industry. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Data Developer Atighgasht - Tehran October 2018 to May 2019 Atighgasht • Tehran, Iran • Lead Data Developer • Oct 2018 – May 2019  Data Warehouse/Business Intelligence Project  •    Design and Implementation of a data warehouse based on MS SQL Server for generating report of millions of records of ticket sales, reserves, and searches using SSIS  •    Generating OLAP Cubes for some reports using SSAS Multidimensional  •    Visualizing the data using Power BI  •    Writing complex SQL queries for Marketing team and performance tuning them and extracting value from millions of records of data and finally visualizing them in Power BI  UX Analytics Project  •    Designing a data model to store the user’s interactions with UI based on MongoDB  •    Design and Implementation of an ETL process to move the data into Data Warehouse  •    Visualizing the data using Power BI  User Tracking Project  •    Designing a way to identify the unique users, using their browser cookies and their info on the issued invoices.  •    Connecting our tracking system to google analytics to detect the users, cross-device  Plane ticket price forecasting Project  •    Design and Implementation of required ETL and data cleaning procedures  •    Leading another developer to forecast the Ticket prices of future and generate a “Wait or Buy” signal using Python and Machine Learning Freelancer Self Own Business - Tehran April 2015 to September 2018 I was doing some freelance projects while in school; in the meantime, I worked on several different projects for the following companies. It included software development, consultancy etc. After joining Atighgasht as a full-time employee, I stopped working as a self-employed and devoted all my time and effort to this project. Some of the most relevant projects are as follows:     Atighgasht • Data Visualization Project • Jul 2018 – Aug 2018  Atighgasht is company in Iran’s travel industry. One of its products, MrBilit, is second largest e-ticket selling application in Iran. In less than two years, their revenue passed 1 Trillion Rials and improving upward.  •    Design and Implementation of multiple BI Reports on Sales, Finance, User Behavior and Acquisition etc. using Power BI  •    Working almost 20 million records of data  •    Calculation of business variables like Churn Rate, LTV etc.  Petchi • Data Visualization Project • May 2018 – Jul 2018  Petchi is startup whose work is about pets. They provide a variety of services to the pet owners including but not limited to providing vets, pet hotels, pet shops and more.  •    Performing an ETL process on the database based on MySQL engine  •    Performing calculation of demanded business variables using DAX  •    Visualization using Power BI  HAMPA • Business Intelligence Project • Apr 2018 – Sep 2018  HAMPA is a carpooling service Launched at March 2017.  •    Performing an ETL process on the database based on PostgreSQL engine  •    Performing calculation of demanded business variables using DAX  •    Visualization using Power BI Software Test Developer/DevOps Engineer Mofid Securities - Tehran February 2018 to August 2018 •    Implementation of BDD tests designed by Product Owner using SpecFlow  •    Implementation of  the CI/CD pipeline using TFS Software Developer Mofid Securities - Tehran May 2017 to February 2018 •    Design and Implementation of a Chatbot using Telegram .NET API  •    Fetching the data from the database using LINQ and SQL in order to use them in the chatbot Software Developer HPDS - Tehran November 2015 to May 2017 HPDS is Tech Company based on Sharif University of Technology working on Data Storage with memory size of 100TB+. I worked on two projects, one was system software and the other, was a Linux kernel device driver.  •    Design and Implementation of a textual user interface (TUI) using ncurses  •    Design and Implementation of TUI backend using GObject and DBus and Glib API  •    Development of Linux kernel modules Education Master's in Business Analytics University of Illinois at Chicago - Chicago, IL August 2019 to Present Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Sharif University of Technology - Tehran September 2011 to September 2017 Skills C (3 years), Java (Less than 1 year), Linux (2 years), Computer Networks (1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), Scrum (1 year), Microsoft PowerBI (1 year), SQL (2 years), SSIS (1 year), SSAS (Less than 1 year), T-Sql (2 years) Awards Nationwide university entrance exam 2011-08 Rank 414th among multi hundred thousands of participants. Nationwide Computer Laboratory Competitions 2010-09 Ranked as 5th in the Nation.