Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer ? 3+ Years of IT experience in Design, Development, Testing and Maintaining enterprise  applications in Java and other related Technologies  ? Experience with Object Oriented Programming in Java ecosystem.  ? Experience in application development using Java, Spring, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JPA,  Hibernate.  ? Experience in developing user-friendly web interfaces using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery,  JavaScript & AJAX.  ? Well versed in writing SQL Queries and working with Relational Database Management  Systems such as Oracle, MySQL.  ? Experience in developing RESTful APIs exchanging data in JSON format  ? Experience with JUnit for performing Unit Testing.  ? Experience with build tools like Maven, Jenkins.  ? Excellent verbal and written communication skills at all organizational levels.  ? Full life cycle experience in agile methodology, including customer reviews/meetings,  requirements gathering, architectural review, high- and low-level design, coding, peer  walkthroughs, testing, acceptance, delivery and maintenance tasks. Work Experience Software Developer Sriya Innovations - Detroit, MI January 2016 to April 2017 Open Innovation platform aims to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of company's innovation  processes by active search for new technologies and ideas from both inside and outside of the firm, but also through cooperation with suppliers, vendors and other external partners, in order to create  customer value. It allows to bring in external ideas and technologies into the firm's own innovation  process and at the same time allows under-utilized ideas and technologies in the firm to go outside to be incorporated into others' innovation processes.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Design, Development & Testing of Open Innovation platform.  ? Designed and Implemented RESTful APIs for business processes such as challenge  submission, idea submission, ratings, comments, reviews using Java, Spring Boot supporting  JSON/XML response representation intended to work in multi-tenant environment.  ? Unit tested services and application components using JUnit and mock objects.  ? Implemented cross cutting concerns like logging and exception handling using Spring AOP.  ? Used various design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Factory, Strategy etc. to build robust, maintainable and clean code.  ? Performed unit testing and regression testing for every requirement so as to ensure all  user-specified requirements were met.  ? Working closely with Build & Release teams to migrate projects to test and production servers  using GitHub as source control repository & Maven as build & release tool.  ? Responsible for Administration and Production support of Application by proactively looking at production issues.  ? Involved in regular reports, status, feedback and communication with the management  ? Coordinating the team members and maintaining the project log.  Environment: Java 8, Spring 4.x, Tomcat, Jetty, MySql, GitHub, Maven, JSON Java Developer Dept. of Medical Assistance - Richmond, VA March 2014 to December 2015 Dept. of Medicaid Assistance Services undertook a major initiative to move towards Microservices  Oriented Architecture to build APIs which are used across various state agencies to evaluate and provide medicaid assistance to citizens of Virginia.    Responsibilities:  ? Designing, coding, unit-testing and maintaining projects for the Core Services team, based on system specifications and change requests provided by the business teams following Agile  Development methodology.  ? Primarily focused on the spring components such as Spring IoC, Spring MVC, Dispatcher  Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  ? Designed and Implemented Authentication and Authorization Restful APIs used across multiple state agencies.  ? Developed GUIs using JavaScript, JQuery AJAX, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap.  ? Automation of business and technical processes, troubleshooting and resolving production  issues while maintaining and improving deployed code.  ? Identify areas of improvement within current applications and lead the effort to implement  changes.  ? Successfully coordinate software deploys that have a dependency across different teams.  ? Delivering complete solutions, i.e taking a product from technical specifications phase through development/deployment, and performing ongoing maintenance/upgrades.  ? Taking ownership of technical areas and ensuring that the software satisfies all requirements, it  is completed in time, and it is maintainable.  Environment: Java, Spring 3.x, WebSphere 8.5, DB2, SVN, IBM WID, UNIX, XML, JSON Education Post Graduate Diploma in Computer Applications in Computer Applications Sikkim Manipal University Bachelors of Commerce in Commerce Kurukshetra University - Kurukshetra, Haryana Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS, JSON, SVN Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: - Java, JavaScript, SQL  Java Technologies: - Core Java, JEE, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, JUnit.  Open Source Framework: - Spring, Hibernate.  Databases: - Oracle 9.x/10.x, DB2, MySQL  Application/Web Servers: - Tomcat, Jetty, WebSphere  Web development: - HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, XML, JSON  Web services: - RESTful  Version Control System: - GitHub, CVS, SVN.  Build & Release Tools: - Maven, Jenkins