Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Intrinsic Infotech Private Limited ? Having 3.4 yrs. of Experience in Visual C++, MFC, C++, Win32, Multithreading, DLL's.  ? Widely used OOPS Concepts, (Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance, and Polymorphism) for user administration, Role Management, and authorization objects development.  ? As a software engineer Technical Expertise in providing solutions using Win32 SDK, MFC.  ? Expertise in front end design on windows using Visual C++.  ? knowledge in Component Object Model Inproc / Outproc servers.  ? Expertise using VC++ and MFC on basis of Document-View architecture of MFC framework.  ? Extensive knowledge of developing GUI MFC application.  ? Hands on Experience in changing the Visual Appearance and it's Behavior of the existing control by using Control Customization and Sub-Classing.  ? Hands on Experience in Creating Win32 Dialog Screens.  ? Hands on experience in MFC Model and Modeless Dialog Screens, and Frame Window development.  ? Hands on experience using STL Algorithms, Containers (Vector, List, Map). Work Experience Developer Intrinsic Infotech Private Limited March 2017 to Present Intrinsic InfoTech Pvt Ltd CGI, Canada  Team size 8  Technologies C++, MFC, VC++, SQL Server 2008.  Libraries Win32 API, INTEX API.    Description: SwixMortgageTM is a powerful mortgage-backed securities & mortgage investor management system specialized for the Canadian market (CMHC). Java-based and state of the art, this system enables financial institutions to automate the processes of mortgage securitization and investor portfolio management.    SwixMortgage includes mortgage-pool creation and selection, pool administration, automated investor remittance processing, and investor asset management functions. SwixMortgage provides full automation of the securitization and pool maintenance tasks, thus removing financial institutions' biggest barriers to increased issue volume. Moreover, financial institutions can expect cost savings and multiple gains in the pooling of assets and the issuance of securities to finance those assets. The SwixMortgage platform uses a modular approach, making it easy to add additional asset classes and functionality.    Portfolio Creation & Selection:  ? CMHC, MBS and bulk sale pool construction.  ? Custom search and pool creation based on user input or regulatory standards.  ? Complex premium/pool size convergence functionality.  ? Loans reserved for future securitization.  ? Pool sale value calculation based upon prevailing market rates, user supplied yield or pool coupon.  MBS Administration:  ? Efficient and automated remittance processing  ? Configurable penalty calculation using custom defined rate and terms  ? Automatic mortgage liquidation resulting from payoff or adjustment  ? Exception list generation based on pre-determined business rules  ? Provides auto-buyback functionality to re-purchase liquidated mortgages or maturing pools based upon definable criteria  Investor Portfolio Management:  ? Comprehensive investor static-data database  ? Institutional investor asset cross-referencing  ? Mortgage syndication management  ? Simplified individual mortgage sales with percentage sale capability  ? Calculates accurate sale/market value based upon configurable valuation parameters  ? Investor driven remittance process with service fee and tax calculations    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developing the parser DLLs, to extract the details of trade information from Trade Capture files and display the result back to application.  • Implementing the VC ++ COM concepts required to Automate the COM Servers for trade reconciliation  • Bug analysis and fixing.  • Handling Threading logic to develop various reports.  • Handling software build release activities.    Project #2: CGI's E-settlement    Date From / To Role Company Client Software Developer Intrinsic Infotech Private Limited - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN November 2015 to Present Project Details: Developer Intrinsic Infotech Private Limited - Mumbai, KRISHNA, IN November 2015 to March 2017 J)  Date: Additional Information Skill Set:  Programming Languages: C, C++, C#, VC++ 9.0.  Technologies: Win32 SDK, MFC, COM, STL.  Software Development Tools: Tortoise SVN, Visual Studio 2008.  Database: SQL Server 2008.  Platforms: Windows Xp, 7.