Researcher Researcher Molecular Biologist/Microbiologist Virginia Beach, VA Work Experience Researcher Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA April 2013 to Present Worked on various projects related to Infectious diseases caused by ticks in the united states leading to publications in reputed journals. Graduate Teaching Assistant - Environmental Sciences Lab, Introduction Old Dominion University, Dept. of Biological Sciences August 2013 to December 2017 to Human Biology Lab, General Bacteriology Lab, General Biology and General Microbiology  ? Course Instructor - General Bacteriology, Lecture and Lab Senior Research Fellow Directorate of Mushroom Research - Solan, HIMACHAL PRADESH, IN December 2009 to May 2011 Improved indoor compost technology for white button mushroom using thermophilic organisms  ? Conducted thorough analysis of compost samples (nitrogen & carbon content estimation, pH, moisture, microbial/pathogen load estimations & enzymatic analysis)  ? Managed isolation of thermophilic microbes for production of thermophilic spawn  ? Executed mushroom yield data management and analysis; presenting data to scientists in meetings  ? Oversaw the inspection and logging of cropping room temperature and humidity levels  ? Examined mushroom bags for potential pathogens as well as supervised and streamlined the composting process  ? Worked on developing Liquid thermophilic spawn technology using New Brunswick 115 Benchtop  Fermentor Software Developer Siliconlinks Inc - Newark, DE October 2007 to April 2008 Led the development and implementation of Business Process Management (BPM) application, application software testing, and requirement/data gathering Assistant Microbiologist Haryana Distilleries - Yamuna Nagar, Haryana January 2002 to May 2002 Assisted in the maintenance and production of inoculum, strain management, daily alcohol production data logs, estimation of alcohol, and estimation of initial and residual sugar content Education Doctor of philosophy in biomedical sciences in Research Project Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA August 2019 Certificate in Molecular Diagnostics Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA August 2011 to May 2012 Master's in Cell and Molecular Biology University of New Haven - New Haven, CT August 2005 to August 2007 Master's in Microbiology Chaudhary Charan Singh University (C.C.S. University) - Meerut, Uttar Pradesh August 1999 to August 2001 Bachelor's in Microbiology University of Delhi - Delhi, Delhi August 1996 to August 1999 Skills Bacteria, Biochemistry, Bioinformatics, Cell culture, Dna, Dna sequencing, Genomics, Microbiology, Molecular biology, Pcr, Protein purification, Aseptic technique, Autoclaving, Elisa, Purification, Sequencing, Western blotting, Electrophoresis, Capillary electrophoresis, Html Assessments Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/f5mvrvvepq5-9tfb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Accomplished, dynamic, and intelligent professional with broad-based background in microbiology, molecular biology, bioinformatics, computers, infectious diseases and mushroom research. Dedicated to discovering new things and verifying ideal assumptions through scientific method. Results-driven, solid team player and trustworthy professional with strong ability to work with diverse individuals and multitask within fiercely competitive and fast-paced environments. Expert at troubleshooting complex technical problems; manage priorities and maintain constant coordination with colleagues to brainstorm on topics crucial in improving overall productivity.    Areas of Expertise    Cell Culture passage of cell lines, viability assay, standard growth curve, ELISA, and MTT assay  Microbiology  handling and screening of bacteria and fungus; identification and characterization of microbes (single-colony purification, dilution series, plate counts, hemocytometer counts, and aseptic technique). Isolation and maintenance of Anaplasma phagocytophilum    Biochemistry protein purification, protein gels, and enzyme assays  Molecular Biology  SDS-PAGE, agarose gel, western blotting, real-time PCR, reverse transcriptase PCR, restriction digest, DNA sequencing, and capillary electrophoresis, EMSA    Information Technology  Oracle, Perl, SQL, HTML, Bioinformatics (cPRIMER, Primer3, Biosoft Beacon Designer, Biology Workbench, RasMol, CLC Genomics workbench, PATRIC BRC)    Research Literature review, research reports, manuscript drafts and scientific presentations  General Lab Maintenance of lab equipment, chemical inventory and autoclaving