Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Richland, WA • Software Developer with more than two years of working experience; Created and customized Planogram and Floorplan Web applications in JDA Open Access using master pages, page layouts, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, and Web Services at Walmart Labs.  • Used jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, and C# to create Ajax Available user controls for Planogram and Object Mapping pop-up tables with paging, sorting, and filtering at Walmart Labs.  • Developed and Completed a POC ChatBot real time application using Syn Bot Studio and ASP.NET.  • Created .NET web applications using C#, .NET, Web Forms, MVC, Web API, JavaScript, HTML, SQL, Entity Framework, Angular, and Bootstrap and Completed two online web applications: One is a personal fitness application. Another is a car sharing service at Revature.  • Developed shopping application that allows customers to check out items from a sports store. It also allows administrators to add, modify, or delete products, orders, and customers from the store; Used JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Azure SQL Server, Azure App Service, C#, .NET, ASP Identity Framework, Web API, MVC, and ADO.NET Entity Framework in Academic projects.  • Developed car sharing service that allows employees to report and keep track of all the vehicles in the inventory; Used JavaScript, Bootstrap, Azure SQL Server, Azure App Service, C# .NET, Web Forms, ADO.NET Connected layer, 3-tier architecture Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Walmart Labs February 2018 to January 2019 • Created and customized Planogram and Floorplan Web applications in JDA Open Access using master pages, page layouts, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, and Web Services.  • Used jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, and C# to create Ajax Available user controls for Planogram and Object Mapping pop-up tables with paging, sorting, and filtering.  • Wrote SQL stored procedures using dynamic SQL to support paging, sorting, and filtering.  • Modified SQL stored procedure to aggregate on-demand performance to support multiple planograms using cluster stores or existing stores.  • Developed a Coded UI project for On-Demand Job UI Test Automation with Page Object Pattern and Data-Driven tests. Wrote Unit Test cases for Business Rules Validations using Moq and MS Tests Framework. Coded some business rule validations with Rule Pattern and Factory Pattern using C#.  • Created SSIS packages to extract, transform, and load data from excel workbooks/SQL server tables into SQL Server tables for Object Mapping.  • Validated canned performance data with Teradata SQL and excel workbooks.  • Wrote Hive scripts to aggregate on-demand performance from sales and inventories in Hadoop. Wrote Sqoop scripts to transfer Sales and Inventories data from Teradata to Hadoop and on-demand performance aggregation data from Hadoop to SQL Server.  • Completed a POC ChatBot real time application using Syn Bot Studio and ASP.NET.  • Worked in an agile development environment and participated in Scrum sections.    1 Software Developer TechField November 2016 to January 2017 • Worked in a team to develop a basic SharePoint farm with two SharePoint servers, one SQL server, and one Active Directory server connected to each other. Installed and Configured SQL Server and Integrated SQL server with Active Directory server and SharePoint servers.  • Completed an on-line store application using SharePoint Designer, InfoPath Designer, lists, libraries, content types, master pages, page layouts, and workflows.  • Created and customized SharePoint applications using SharePoint branding, Web Parts, SharePoint Apps, JSOM, and REST API in Office 365 and on-premise SharePoint environments. .NET Developer Revature June 2016 to November 2016 • Created .NET web applications using C#, .NET, Web Forms, MVC, Web API, JavaScript, HTML, SQL, Entity Framework, Angular, and Bootstrap.  • Completed two online web applications: One is a personal fitness application. Another is a car sharing service.  • Followed the Software Development Life Cycle for effective application production and deployment.  • Deployed web applications to the Internet Information Server.  • Following the software requirements specifications to generate use case diagrams.  • Following the system design documents to create the class diagrams, entity relation diagrams, and sequence diagrams. Research Assistant San Diego State University Research Foundation May 2015 to May 2016 • Participated in the preparation of publication to the Journal of GIScience & Remote Sensing.  • Provided research assistance on two funded research projects by National Science Foundation and US Department of Transportation. Developed image processing framework and programming scripts in MATLAB and C++ for shadow detection and restoration of aerial images. Implemented Image processing tools in MATLAB for image segmentation, classification, and pattern recognition. Participated in the evaluation of BAE systems software for co-registration of multi-temporal airborne images. Education University of California, San Diego Extension - San Diego, CA June 2017 to December 2017 B.S. in Electrical Engineering University of California, Riverside - Riverside, CA September 2010 to December 2014 Skills Ado, Ado.net, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, Git, Hadoop, Hive, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Json, Ajax, Asp, B2c, Asp.net, MVC, Angular, Jquery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/christopher-x-chen https://github.com/chchen1124 Awards Full Stack Web Developer 2017-11 An award from UC San Diego Extension dedicated to 250 hours of web development on both front and back end. Publications Automated Detection and Restoration of Shadows in Aerial Images to Support Visual and Automated Change Detection in Urban Environments 2017-01