Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Covina, CA A creative Software Developer with experience in building responsive application, creating interactive features and improving the user experience. After years of working and self-learning, I realize working individually and team playing are equally important to me. I always keep my attitude as a learner and am always ready to accept new knowledge from anyone anytime and anywhere. I have confident that I will become one of your strongest support if you have me into your excellent team. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer Hiveel Technology - West Covina, CA December 2017 to Present ? Worked in a team to implement Hiveel used car information stage app using React Native, mainly focus on communication module and car service module.  ? Designed, implemented and restructured Hiveel website using VueJs and ElementJs. Worked on user chatting, car search and service module, used Vuex to optimize data management and reduce event bus from the whole project.  ? Worked with Marketing Team to implement Hiveel website data tracking and reporting by inserting Google Analysis and Facebook analysis.  ? Worked with Webpack to reduce project building size and 50% time, and to reduce first page loading time from 6s to 3s by using lazy loading tech. Worked with website SEO and increased website visitor number and user sign up number by using Robots.txt and google console.  ? Deployed hashed JS and CSS files to online server using SSH and SFTP protocol.  ? Implemented Dealer information module for Hiquote website using ReactJs, NodeJs and MongoDb. Launched automated email sending system by checking if user has unread message and sending reminder to user email. Launched online and sandbox payment system using API from Braintree.  ? Worked on AutoSav and FreitX projects using VueJS, Vuex, ElementJS from layout to function and according to the design diagram and document.  ? Aim to manage, install node module faster and more stable, used YARN instead of NPM in recently projects.  ? Worked with other teammates using Asana bug status checking system, mission submission system and git to ensure optimum customer experience as well as maximize view time and conversions. Translated design into stable website using Sketch. Software Developer Gridology Education Technology - Fort Lee, NJ April 2017 to December 2017 ? Designed and developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ElementJS, VueJs and Angular.  ? Developed responsive web application by integrating VueJs and ElementJS, which is further integrated with web services.  ? Built VueJs components, bus event and router to consume rest services using component based architecture.  ? Worked with Git to maintain different versions of source code and push them to the remove repository.  ? Strong working experience in determining Cross-Browser Compatibility challenges and processing Responsiveness using Modernizr.  ? Used Jasmine and Karma as testing tools for debugging and software quality assurance.  ? Worked with JIRA to check issue and bug status and worked with gitlab to control code version with other team member.  ? Experience in complete software SDLC which includes requirement gathering, coding, design, analysis, testing using Agile involved in daily SCRUM meetings and Sprint cycles. Education Master's New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ 2014 to 2016 Skills Git, Javascript, PHP, MYSQL, HTML 5, CSS, VueJs, Linux, ElementJs, ReactJs, React Native, AngularJs, Node/Express, SQL, PLSQL, Asana, Sketch Additional Information Language: English, Cantonese, Mandarin