Freelance Freelance An exceptional Developer, Linux System Administrator and DevOps Engineer with viable experience in developing, managing, and implementing technical solutions to streamline the process and increase productivity. Extensive knowledge building development environments and utilizing cutting-edge technologies. Highly skilled in gathering and analyzing requirements, assessing the project and process feasibility, and establishing project plans and timelines to ensure on-time completion of final deliverables. Excellent communication skills. Work Experience Freelance San Antonio, TX October 2018 to Present contract)  Worked with clients to create websites and web apps to fit their various needs. Technologies used include Angular, React, NodeJS, Express, Bootstrap, the .NET ecosystem along with Wordpress and Wix. SSFCU - San Antonio, TX May 2019 to July 2019 contract)  Converted training, procedural and other documentation produced by the Training and Live Chat teams to a user-friendly KM article per the direction of the KM Architect. Worked with various CMS including Wordpress, Sharepoint, and Sitecore. Worked in HTML5, CSS3, and JS plus PHP. Software Engineer HCL - San Antonio, TX March 2018 to October 2018 contract)  Consulted with internal and client teams to gather system requirements and propose technical solutions to automate processes using Bootstrap, Angular, React, Python and C#. Presented the final product to the client (USAA) for approval. Worked with RESTFUL APIs when needed. Acquired invaluable knowledge in Ansible, CI/CD, Docker, and Kubernetes to transition to DevOps-based Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  Key Achievement:  ? Oversaw the creation of an MVP using AI Chatbot Integration with IBM's Watson platform for the client lending department. NET Developer San Antonio, TX March 2018 to May 2018 contract)  Worked with a client to create a cross-platform app using .NET, .NET Core, ASP.NET & ASP MVC, and C# plus Xamarin.  Key Achievement:  * Created a multi-platform alpha app in Xamarin for the client Software Engineer Accenture - San Antonio, TX August 2017 to March 2018 Spearheaded the project engagement to develop a multistage backup solution for critical validation servers with built-in redundancy and team notification backup failure for the IRS. Developed a script to identify team servers, conduct a comparison with servers containing known vulnerabilities, compile a list of servers, and distributed information to the appropriate team. Successfully reduced team efforts by 75% by researching and compiling server lists.    ? Successfully updated and organized existing onboarding documentation for processes, best practices, system access, and internal communication guidelines.  ? Designed a plan to migrate critical KORN scripts to Python to ensure the validation of servers and backup of essential files.  ? Collaborated with technical teams to remediate server vulnerabilities through CA API Gateway GUI, and update critical XML schemas for the 2018 tax season. Skills .net, C#, Bootstrap, Typescript, .net core, Object-oriented, Python, Xamarin, Html5, Mvc, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Object-oriented design, Devops, Linux, Unix, Bash, Java, Frameworks Links https://github.com/gottaStartNow Additional Information Technical Proficiencies:  Platforms: Windows, Mac OS, UNIX, Linux  Tools: C#, Java, JS, Python, HTML5, CSS, Typescript, BASH, Rust  Frameworks: Angular, Express, SpringBoot, ASP.NET, .NET Core, MVC, React, Bootstrap, Xamarin  Methodologies: DevOps, Agile Development, Object-Oriented Design