Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - New York Life Ventures R&D Lab Work Experience Software Engineer New York Life Ventures R&D Lab October 2018 to Present New Group Annuities On-boarding Tool  • Built backend module to perform data sanitization and refining of large excel files.  • Functions include formatting file based on pre-configured column formats, comparison and validation of file based on user configurable business logics.  • Backend hosted on AWS and built using Django REST framework, Pandas, PostgreSQL. Cloud Software Engineer Intern New York Life Ventures R&D Lab January 2018 to September 2018 Internal Developer Sandbox  • Built a user-friendly developer console which reduced functional complexities for developers using AWS cloud services.  • Core Functionality provided creation of pre-configured EC2 instances under the VPC assigned to specific user role.  • Enabled automatic secret key management via AWS KMS.  • Web SSH into the EC2 instances without having to manage secret keys on local machine.  Kubernetes PoC  • Used Docker to package all the instances of the applications.  • Hosted our web apps on AWS using Kubernetes cluster and created a CI/CD pipeline to build and deploy the application with Jenkins.  • Medium Article- https://medium.com/@nd1292/aws-configure-for-docker-containers-with-or-without-jenkins-b4c1443a15c9  Role Based Access Control  • Developed a module for access management which integrated AWS Cognito with PingFed and custom Database tables  for granular access control to application logic/screens.  • This was integrated with existing projects for role-based access control. Frontend Developer Edu Chat Inc July 2017 to December 2017 Worked on ECMAScript5, ReactJS and Redux frameworks to make components for adding new functionalities to the Edu Chat website and make it more user friendly by using Redux- Sagas for asynchronous API calls. Mini-Flick May 2017 to June 2017 Developed a responsive web-based application where users can search movies, write reviews, make recommendations  and add movies to their watch list. They have the ability to also follow each other.  • Hosted this app on Heroku, App URL- https://boiling-coast-34151.herokuapp.com/ Sports Fan Social Network March 2017 to April 2017 • Developed a web-based application using PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery hosted on WAMP server.  • This app allowed user to sign up, make friends and post status along with photos, videos based on their interests. A user  can also comment and like diaries posted by friends and message friends. Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering New York University - New York, NY September 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication in Electronics and Communication GGSIP University - New Delhi, Delhi September 2012 to May 2016 Skills Django, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ndabas9017