Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Ontrac Louisville, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer Ontrac 2019 to Present Develop and maintain internal WPF applications using an MVVM structure to meet internal  customers business requirements.  ? Develop and maintain Angular 7 to create responsive material designed web applications for internal and external customers.  ? Create and maintain Asp.net core 2 web apis for web application use.  ? Implemented a SSO middleware for both custom internal logins and external public logins.  ? Continue researching and learning newer development technologies and practices to better user  experience to our customers. Junior Developer Ontrac 2016 to 2019 Support internal WPF applications using an MVVM structure to meet internal customers  business requirements.  ? Used MVC 5, Jquery, Bootstrap 4, and Razor to create responsive material designed web  applications for internal and external customers.  ? Researched and learned various newer development technologies that provide a better user  experience to our customers while reducing resource costs for the company.  Ontrac  Business Analytics and Software Support  ? 2014 - 2016  ? Provided tier 1 support to internal customers experiencing issues with in-house developed  desktop applications, SSRS reports, and SQL server.  ? Designed and develop SSRS reports that provide meaningful data to both internal and external  customers that meet and exceed their business requirements.  ? Provided business analytics to aid in the decision making of day to day operations of the company.  ? Created and maintain database tables, functions, and stored procedures to aid in the development of applications and SSRS reporting.  ? Developed desktop applications that automate daily manual tasks.  ? Designed, developed and supported internal desktop applications that met customers business  requirements and provided them with a way to replace tedious manual tasks with a more robust and streamlined process.    Airlines Reporting Corporation Software Consultant Restorative Justice Louisville 2014 to 2014 Consulted with Restorative Justice Louisville to replace their current IT infrastructure to a more  efficient and reliable system  • Created various mockups of the system and met with the Executive Director  • Worked with a team of junior programmers to create the entire system using Asp.net, SQL and Github Operations Analyst 2012 to 2014 Maintained stability of the mainframe, servers, and batch processing jobs to meet the 99%  uptime goal  • Monitored the various alert driven systems in place to prevent disasters or failure of a system  • Provided tier 1 technical support to internal customers having IT related issues  • Troubleshooted batch job issues using CA7 and Tamis then alert the correct team to fix the issues  • Setup and run various run request that are responsible for transferring money to airline  corporations    University of Louisville Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Information Systems in Web Development University of Louisville 2010 to 2014 Pleasure Ridge Park High School 2006 to 2010 Skills Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Mvc, Wpf, Visual studio, C#, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Typescript, Razor, Visio, Ajax, Iis, Html5, Ssrs, Java, jquery, Microsoft visio, HTML, XML Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Key Skills:  Software Knowledge - Advanced training in using Visual Studios, Visual Studio Code, SQL Server  Managementment, SSRS, MySQL, Microsoft Visio, Unity, IIS, TFS, and Git.  Programming Languages - Trained in using C#, WPF, Angular 7, Typescript, Java, SQL, MVC, JavaScript,  JQuery, Razor, XAML, AJAX, Bootstrap 4, and HTML5.