Software Specialist <span class="hl">Software</span> Specialist Software Specialist - CYBORG, Inc Woodstock, MD Experienced Information Technology professional with a broad range of skills and a breadth of knowledge in Information Systems. I have been responsible for software and database development, testing and integration of customer deployments in all phases of the SDLC, including QA, UAT and Go-Live phases. I have a logical approach and excellent problem solving, analytical skills and ability to troubleshoot, provide feedback, and resolve issues with attention to detail. IamaU.S. Citizen living in Maryland, with excellent oral and written communication skills, interpersonal skills, work well both in a team environment and independently, and with remote project teams and am very dependable. Work Experience Software Specialist CYBORG, Inc - Bethesda, MD May 2014 to Present Design and implement the various statistical, computational, and linear programming models used by Petroleum Reserves  ? Integrate models into systems designed to allow for annual re-activation and for seasonal operation and maintenance  ? Integrate Energy Information Administration (EIA) survey data into Petroleum Supply, Demand and Distribution databases  ? Use database data to feed the Petroleum Reserves' models and analysis  ? Perform tests on Crude/Heating Oil Sales Systems  ? Produce procedural documentation for systems developed  Achievements: Software development, management and subject matter expert for mission critical IT systems for the U.S. Dept of Energy, Fossil Energy, Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  Tools used: AngularJS, JavaScript, C#, .Net, SQL Server, C++, Fortran    NATIONAL INSTITUTES of HEALTH  Bethesda, MD    under contract to: Software Developer KELLY GOVERNMENT SOLUTIONS - Rockville, MD August 2013 to February 2014 Installation and configuration illumina sequencing software, supporting software and libraries on RHEL  ? Managed lab's Red Hat Linux workstation setup and configuration with CTO and ITB staff  ? Performed Gene Expression Omnibus data repository data file transfer  ? Prepared Hardware, Software Configuration presentation for the Information Technology Branch  ? Managed Information Technology related needs for lab  Tools used: Java, Eclipse, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Python, Oracle Software Engineer ACTIVE NETWORK - Clarksburg, MD August 2007 to April 2013 Performed software development on multiple projects using Java, SQL and other software development tools  ? Converted business and system requirements into detailed system design and technical specifications  ? Designed, created database tables, keys, constraints, triggers and indexes, views, stored procedures and functions  ? Provided ad-hoc SQL query reports as requested by management  ? Maintained database security for users, roles and access  ? Managed database backup and recovery procedures  ? Administered database storage and capacity to accommodate future development and size requirements  ? Ensured database environment compliant with company security policies and internal controls  ? Created work effort estimates used to present to the customer and as the primary input to project schedule  ? Communicated with end users to ensure no discrepancies between the requirement specifications and the final product  ? Continually exceeded goals of client satisfaction, deliverable deadlines and system uptime  Tools used: Oracle, PL/SQL, Java, JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS Sr. Database Analyst INFOSPHERIX - Beltsville, MD October 2003 to August 2007 Developed and managed the design, development, release, and maintenance of business application and database systems  ? Designed, created database tables, keys, constraints, triggers and indexes, views, stored procedures and functions  ? Provided ad-hoc SQL query reports as requested by management  ? Performed database performance and tuning, and query optimization  ? Ensured and improved the quality and timeliness of design and coding activities  ? Followed and enforced design and coding standards, held technical design and architecture reviews, held code reviews  ? Developed implementation plans for quality assurance, training, documentation, transition, release, software build  Tools used: Oracle, PL/SQL, ASP.Net, C#, JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS Education Software Engineering UNIVERSITY of MARYLAND GLOBAL CAMPUS Present UNIVERSITY of MARYLAND UNIVERSITY COLLEGE 1992 to 1997 BS in Business Administration TOWSON (STATE) UNIVERSITY 1986 Skills Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, .net, C#, Git, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Mongoose, Node.js, Json, Python, Software development, Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Linux • Oracle • PL/SQL • Java • Spring Boot • Spark • FreeMarker • JPA/Hibernate • JUnit • Maven • MongoDB • Mongoose • IntelliJ • Eclipse • Node.js • JavaScript • HTML5 • CSS3 • Python • Bash • npm • Gulp • Brackets • Sublime • WebStorm • Express.js • JSHint • Git • C# • .Net • Microsoft SQL Server • Angular.js • jQuery • JSON • Bootstrap • Agile Software Development