QA Engineer QA Engineer QA Engineer Milltown, NJ Detail-oriented Quality Assurance Engineer having almost 3 years of experience seeking challenging new role in Information technology. Strong documentation and report writing abilities. Able to read and interpret technical documentation to make accurate assessments of software and functionality. Work Experience QA Engineer Plentycart - South Plainfield, NJ June 2018 to January 2019 Employer - Mintex Tech Inc.  • Reduced overall testing hours up to 60% by writing and optimizing automation test scripts in selenium webdriver and testNG.  • Experienced testing RESTful APIs using Postman.  • Extensively worked on JMeter to create Thread Groups and test RESTful web services for various loads on key business scenarios.  • Produced and maintained consistent testing documents.  • Completed Functional, Integration and Regression tests under tight deadlines to meet client demands and project timeline.  • Assisted UAT team understanding complex service flow and participated in business production checkout.  • Collaborated with developers and product owners to stay updated on product features and intended functionality.  • Ability to work with multiple projects at a same time.    Environment: Selenium WebDriver/GRID, Java, TestNG, JMeter, Jenkins, SQL, Maven, Postman, XPath, Chropath, Eclipse, GitHub, Windows 7. Software Tester Webserve Technology - Vadodara, Gujarat August 2016 to January 2018 India.  • Analyzed the business and functional requirements of the application and also developed detailed test plan and test cases.  • Creating test cases by understanding the use cases.  • Gathered data on integration issues and vulnerabilities and reported all findings to Developer.  • Worked closely with the Developers, Analysts and DBA team for knowledge sharing and to resolve issues.  Environment: STLC, Functional Testing, SQL, MS Project, UML, MS Office. Web Developer Intern DotNetExpert - Vadodara, Gujarat April 2015 to September 2015 India.  • Built an online examination system for undergraduate students which was providing career guidance and also could find appropriate job according to their search and their result they achieve from the testes.  • Used Scrapping and matching feature for job search module.  • Implemented test cases using Jasmine framework and Karma as task runner.  • Technologies used: AngularJS, MySQL, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, Node.js, Jasmine, Karma. Education Bachelor of Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Gujarat Technological University - Gujarat, IN Skills Selenium, Cucumber, Manual test, Test case, Test planning, QA, Quality Assurance