Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Automation Professional Tampa, FL Twelve years combine experience with focus on development and designing technology solutions in the client server environment. Proactive, performance-driven Distributed Systems Professional. In addition to the technical skills, key team player and has good communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer Axelon June 2015 to September 2017 ·      Performed the task of planning, conducting, and supervising assignments  ·      Analyzed the requirements for end users and assisted in implementing a recommended approach for enhancement.  ·      Played a major role in designing, developing, and implementing solutions.  ·      Recommended necessary changes in the methods and procedures of different segments of technical analysis.  ·      Solved technical problems by applying various programming principles.  ·      Completed the projects in agreement with the prescribed technical specifications.  ·      Excel and Access VBA programming to create automated reports as per the requirement.   ·      RPA Project analysis, coordination and technical development with the Automation Anywhere tool.  ·      Created Technical and Functional documentation. Application Developer GBCS September 2014 to December 2014 Accomplishment during tenure: -    • Performed the task of planning, conducting, and supervising assignments  • Analyzed the requirements for end users and assisted in implementing a recommended approach for enhancement.  • Played a major role in designing, developing, and implementing solutions.  • Recommended necessary changes in the methods and procedures of different segments of technical analysis.  • Solved technical problems by applying various programming principles.  • Completed the projects in agreement with the prescribed technical specifications.  • Excel and Access VBA programming to create automated reports as per the requirement.  • RPA Project analysis, coordination and technical development with the Automation Anywhere tool.  • Created Technical and Functional documentation. Software Developer ImageNet LLC April 2014 to June 2014 Accomplishment during tenure: -    • Designing, coding and debugging application in Microsoft technologies [Access VBA, SQL].  EDI creation Access VBA code is design to output database values to text format and create client specific files. VBA code also checks for validation rules applied and creates reports for false values.  • Software analysis, code analysis, requirement analysis and software review.  • Responsible for loading, extracting and validation of client data.  • Software testing and quality assurance Line Manager Tieto Technologies - Pune, Maharashtra March 2011 to February 2013 Accomplishment during tenure: -    • Weekly/ Monthly project report to Delivery manager, onsite managers.  • Mid-year and annual appraisals for team Lead Software Engineer October 2009 to February 2013 Accomplishment during tenure: -    • Requirement Analysis for new implementation and Client Interaction for a front-end card generation system built in classic ASP and SQL.  • Designing, developing and implementing new functionality.  • ASP programming and SQL queries  • Unit Testing.  • Technical Documentation.  • Responsible for quality of deliverables in time. Senior Software Developer Credit Pointe technologies - Pune, Maharashtra March 2009 to October 2009 Accomplishment during tenure: -    • Requirement Analysis and Client Interaction.  • Word VBA programming was done to automate legal documents with the firm in the required format as per the client. VBA code was also using Java scripts and services for different functionalities in the module.  • Unit Testing.  • Technical Documentation for VBA code.  • Responsible for quality of deliverables in time. Senior Software Developer Capgemini March 2007 to January 2009 Accomplishment during tenure: -    • Preliminary analysis for Office 2007 and VSTO suit and data gathering.  • Migrate existing VBA code to C#. As part of the migration of VBA code from Office 2003 to Office 2007 and use of VSTO we had to analyse existing 2003 code for Excel, Access and Word VBA. VBA code was further migrated to C#.Net using VSTO [Visual Studio tools for Office] with new added functionalities.  • Manipulating, cleansing & processing data using Excel.  • Write Excel VBA code to automate data analysis templates. This included extracting data from SQL database, code to use excel functions to prepare analysis on the raw data and put them in the templates to get output in the desired format with automated graphical representation  • Unit Testing and Technical Documentation.  • Responsible for quality of deliverables in time.    Synechron Technologies: Pune India Software Developer Asurion Insurance June 2006 to March 2007 Accomplishment during tenure: -    • Preliminary analysis and data gathering.  • System was designed in MS Access. VBA code was used for GUI forms and generate automated reports using access queries.  • Unit Testing and Technical Documentation. Software Developer Aspect Ratio - Pune, Maharashtra February 2004 to June 2006 Accomplishment during tenure: -  • Manipulating, cleansing & processing data using Excel and Access  • Responsible for loading, extracting and validation of client data using Excel VBA. Excel VBA code was designed to import and export data from Excel to Access and vice versa.  • Analysing raw data, drawing conclusions & developing recommendations using excel vlookup and mathematical functions.  • Writing MS Access queries to manipulate data for data loads and reports deliver to clients in Excel with automated graphs.  • Performing daily system checks.  • Data entry, data auditing, creating data reports & monitoring all data for accuracy.  • Designing, developing and implementing new functionality.  • Monitoring the automated loading processes with Excel VBA.  • Supplying qualitative and quantitative data to colleagues & clients.    Certifications and Trainings    NCFM Certification: NSE India [Basic Module] Oct 2007.  ASP.Net SEED training Mar 2008.    Developing Solutions using MOSS 2007 training May 2010. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Pune, Maharashtra Skills Visual studio, Svn, Vb.net, Vba, Visual basic, Ms access, Sql, Sdlc, Technical design, Data management, Perforce, Crystal reports, Excel, Process improvement