Developer and Testing <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Testing Developer and Testing - Maincoders.com Seattle, WA Energetic software Developer and Tester with 5+ years experience developing robust code for high-volume businesses. Increased efficiency of National Lottery Corp Ticket handling and Reporting portal by 55%. An enthusiastic team player and creative thinker. Work Experience Developer and Testing Maincoders.com - Seattle, WA January 2013 to Present Project: Web Developer /Test    Design, Develop and modify applications, form layout to functions based on a client's specifications. Create visually appealing sites that feature user-friendly design and clear navigation customize content management system.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Views in SQL Server for accessing the database.  • Created ASP.NET web forms containing C# code for business and data access logics.  • Utilized object-oriented programming and Java for creating business logic.  • Implemented JavaScript client side functions for custom validators.  • Developed and implemented the Application interfaces.  • Performed analysis, design and development of the application according to the user requirements.  • Set up Github for Source Control. Software Developer and Tester National Lottery - Addis Ababa, ET March 2010 to November 2012 Ethiopia  Ethiopian National Lottery organization dedicated to distribute Lottery ticket in Ethiopia and award lottery winners.    • Migrated extensive manual file system to computer based with MS SQL server. Database system.  • Managed and analysed the returning tickets information.  • Developed Ticket management system.  • Utilized Cristal report components to generate the report. Software Developer and Tester Addis Ababa, ET December 2008 to March 2010 Ethiopia  International Housing project established to develop house in Ethiopia and South Africa with 100+ employee  • Developed and design material and plot management system and increase work efficency with 40%.  • Reduced material wastage, efficacy 30% and to manage the housing progress.  • Utilized RDBMS using MS SQL Server.  • Developed plot and material management Application using .Net Framework. Skills Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Stored procedures, Database development, C#, Html, Javascript, Software development, Css, Java, Macos, Photoshop, Front end, Adobe photoshop, Software testing Additional Information Key Skills  • Software Development using C# and VB, Java.  • Front End Development: Html, CSS, JavaScript.  • Database Development: MS SQL Server, MySQL / SQL, Stored Procedures, Function/.  • Software Testing.  • Adobe Photoshop.  • Platforms: Windows, macOS, Ubuntu.  • Language Skills: English and Amharic.  • Skilled in teamwork, creative thinking.