DIRECTOR OF SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR OF <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR OF SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT Marietta, GA • Software Development Executive with over 20 years of commercial software development and 11 years of corporate managerial experience in leading geographically distributed, diverse, development and operations teams (US, Europe, India, Asia-Pacific) in the end to end delivery of enterprise business solutions in the financial services and banking industry.  • Specialized in delivering cost-effective technology innovations, meeting business and IT needs, supporting the consistent and ongoing achievement of service level expectations.    I simply solve problems, reducing leadership stress by eliminating business risks and delivering on my commitments.    Key Expertise:  • Product & Technology Leadership / Strategic Planning  • Software Engineering (SDLC, Agile, SAFe, KPIs, CICD, Microservices, Cloud Native, Mobile)  • Systems Integration (API & Messaging Strategy, Mergers & Acquisitions, B2B, B2C)  • Quality & Performance (Test Driven Development, Operational Readiness, Scalability, Stress Testing)  • Cloud Computing / Cloud Readiness & Migration (IAAS, PAAS, SAAS, FAAS)  • Data Analytics (Business & IT Analysis and Predictions, PowerBI)  • Data Center Operations (DevOps, Change Controls, Release Mgmt, ITIL, NOC, Incident Mgmt, Monitoring, Network & Security)  • Business Continuity (Availability, Resiliency, Crisis Management, Disaster Recovery)  • People Development & Management (Budget, Reviews, Mentoring, Training)  • Vendor Management (Contacts & Policies Mgmt)  • Governance, Risk & Compliance (Assessment & Mitigation, SOX, SSAE, ISO, GDPR, NIST, PCI)  • Communications (Timely Reports, Leadership Briefings, Client Engagements)    Strategic Partnerships (B2B):  • Government Federal and State agencies, IRS, HSBC, Santa Barbara, River City, Republic Bank, PwC  • Microsoft, Oracle, IBM, VMware, CISCO, NETAPP  • Azure, Dell, IBM Softlyer    Strengths:  • Highly skilled and hands-on development leader  • Unquestioned integrity and loyalty to the business  • Analytical thinking Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DIRECTOR OF SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting US - Kennesaw, GA February 2008 to Present • Lead digital transformation in developing an organizational vision, product strategy, strategic initiatives, data analytics, and governance, maintaining competitive advantage in the marketplace.  • I'm accountable for translating company and department objectives into actionable business goals and performance expectations for development teams and operations.  • Drive primary tax preparation products delivery to consumers, and core backend systems releases, including high-volume transaction electronic filing processing systems, back office integrations and e-commerce web sites to production environments across redundant IBM data centers and cloud platforms.  • Lead the platform engineering initiatives required to enable legacy, on-premises information systems migration to cloud and architecture of new cloud native solutions.  • Manage multimillion dollar departmental CapEx and OpEx budgets, recruit, guide, and review 47 managers and engineers (15+ contractors), including conflict management and supporting developmental opportunities.  • Accountable for products delivery decision-making, team performance, achievement of performance metrics goals, and overall departmental procedures and policies, ensuring timely and quality resolution of clients support needs to client satisfaction, commitment to client excellence, and meeting business objectives.  • Accomplishments:  • Consistently delivered products to over 60,000 small professional firms in US. on time and budget, generating over $175 million in revenue, exceeding 99.7% SLA uptime in production.  • Managed government contracts and maintained regulatory compliance, providing exclusive personal tax software to more than 10,000 IRS-sponsored volunteers and military personnel.  • Identified opportunities for cost reduction in budgeting and operational efficiency, reducing annual budget expenditures by 32% through optimization of staffing requirements, vendor contracts renegotiation, process standardization, and infrastructure footprint optimization, while maintaining service delivery commitments.  • Working collaborative with internal stakeholders and external partners, I provided strategic directions, facilitated delivery scheduling, and features' scope negotiation, finding the correct balance between demand and capacity when establishing priorities for the organization.  • Partnered with internal and external stockholders (Customer Care, Product Management, Project Management, and select customers feedback) to identify and standardize business, software development quality and performance management KPIs, including behavioral, developmental, agile, formal code, operational, testing and customer satisfaction metrics.  • Established set of performance measurement standards and reporting best practices, providing continuous, quantifiable, metric-based approach in progress monitoring, business risks and trends identification, ensuring on time and within budget release of high-quality deliverables.  • Transformed organization from a waterfall project methodology to Agile, achieving Capability Maturity Model Integration certification (CMMI, Level 1 and 2), driving customer facing defects down by over 41%, decreasing time to market by 28% and increasing customer satisfaction (NPS 128%).  • Executed post-acquisition integration of three tax software companies, streamlining technology operations, consolidating API frameworks, restructuring teams, and standardizing processes.  • Consolidated four data centers in two geographically redundant IBM data centers and migrated over 200 hosted systems across 900+ servers (Windows, Linux) with no impact on business operations.  • Aligned standard procedures and policies in Application Development, Data Center Operations and IT to meet security, compliance and service level expectations with internal and external stakeholders (corporate and third-party audits, GRC, SOX, SSAE, ISO, GDPR, NIST, PCI)).  • Launched a Data Governance and Predictive Data Analytics solution across divisional business units, providing business and customer focused insights for day-to-day business operations and product development decision-making, supported by facts (Microsoft PowerBI & Azure Services).  • Developed strategic partnerships with major financial service providers, supporting B2B and B2C integration solutions (IRS, HSBC, Santa Barbara, River City, Republic Bank, PwC).  • Received industry-recognized achievement "leader in processing tax returns" for systems performance and customer satisfaction improvements, processing 52% of all professionally prepared 1040 MeF tax returns in US.  • As a member of government "Strategic Threat Assessment & Response" (STAR) Working Group, championed integration of nationally-recognized standards and best practices of anti-fraud initiatives into business risk management programs. SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT MANAGER Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting US - Kennesaw, GA January 2006 to February 2008 • Managed all Security and Software Development Life Cycle (PDLC, SDLC) phases for TaxWise products development, including customer-facing desktop and cloud-based applications, and backend services (high-volume transaction processing system).  • Provided technical leadership, recruited, developed and reviewed staff.  • Acted as the technical liaison for Sales, Marketing, Premier Accounts, and Support teams with respect to product development, requirements, systems performance, and data analytics.  • Accomplishments:  • Transformed core e-filing systems from a monolithic architecture to a microservices-based platform decoupled from business processes, enabling cloud migration path for the legacy system.  • Launched first cloud-based tax compliance software "TaxWise Online" in professional accounting industry, featuring sophisticated real-time, entry-based tax calculations for federal and state individual tax returns, which won a multimillion dollar contract with government agencies (IRS and States). The software was certified and compliant with all major standards, including regulatory accessibility guidelines (US Section 508).  • Created Operations department (DevOps culture), implementing appropriate personnel, processes, collaboration and automation tools in application development, QA and Information Technology. Guided Kanban methodology processes adaption and implementation of continuous integration and continuous delivery automation.  • Established new Operations policies enabling "follow the sun" business support model, increasing customer satisfaction (Net Promoter score, near-zero unplanned downtime) and ability to support committed business objectives (Service Level Agreements, SLAs, Service Level Objectives, SLOs, 24/7/365 Production Support, Incident and Crisis Management).  • Foster environment of trust, employee engagement, self-organized and empowered teams, driving platform collaboration across business units.  • Established regular on-site, off-site and online training workshops, "lunch and learn" discussions, encouraging employee learning and growth, and "proof of concepts" exercises (fun and value-add) to research next generation technologies working closely with Microsoft and Oracle architects and evangelists.  • Guided consolidation and standardization for application development, QA and operations documentation (wiki knowledge base) of functional specifications, detailed design documents, UML diagrams, design reviews and code reviews with the engineering team. LEAD SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting US - Kennesaw, GA June 2004 to January 2006 SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting US - Rome, GA February 2001 to June 2004 SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting US - Rome, GA January 1999 to February 2001 Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Moscow State University of Instrument Engineering and Computer Science - Moscow, RU Skills .net, Api, Software engineering, Systems integration, Business continuity, Disaster recovery, Iso, Itil, Nist, Pci, Sox, Data center, Data center operations, Devops, Noc, Data analytics, Daas, Saas, Open source, Sdlc Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/alexodintsov