Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Highlands Ranch, CO Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Business Analytics Company 2015 to Present AJAX, jQuery, JSON, JavaScript, SQL Server, MySQL) 2015 - Present  * Created brand new revenue stream to company by creating analytics portal dashboard that allows  users to access their data from any browser device, granting fully interactive charts, slideshow functionality of dashboards, built-in custom drill downs, navigation, hover pop-ups, touch-enabled drag-and-drop interface.  Estimated revenue gain of $4 million+ in revenue each year to gross sales.  * Architected and developed advanced detail data grid that allows a user to view all of the data behind a  widget on a dashboard with a click of a button. Allowing the user access to automatically aggregated,  formatted, grouped, and sorted data. The users can search over millions of rows in seconds, and create  layouts that can be shared amongst multiple users.  * Provided support, maintenance, and added functionality to corporate website as required. Built in  DotNetNuke. Also, partitioned and maintained demo and test servers of dashboard product. Senior Database Developer Doctor and hospital review and search company - Denver, CO 2014 to 2015 Denver, Colorado  HealthGrades, Inc. - healthgrades.com (TSQL, SSIS, C#, Workflow Foundation, SQL) 2014 - 2015  * One of six developers tasked with exploring and determining the technologies, architecture, design, and prototyping a version of the transaction tracking and business rule application, which was the company's  highest priority project. This project included building and modifying Microsoft SQL Server T-SQL stored  procedures and tying them together in Microsoft SQL Service Broker to relay messages from queue to different services and complex processes within the company's architecture.  * Maintained and supported 0NF / 1NF / 4NF / 6NF tables and stored procedures in downstream  data marts in order to increase performance an efficiency and eliminating redundancies in the code.  * Changed Microsoft SQL Integration Services packages to meet new requirements of high-volume  weekly/monthly batch loads of data into data warehouse. Senior Database Developer Online Niche Job Boards - Greenwood Village, CO 2013 to 2014 Greenwood Village, Colorado  Dice Holdings, Inc. - dice.com (SSAS, SSIS, SSRS, TSQL, C#) 2013 - 2014  * Ensured operability and data integrity of Dice.com business intelligence analytics cube. Ensured that the executive management could run valuable statistics of all of the job boards' performance. Maintained a  star schema, 6th normal form data warehouse via anchormodeling.com. Maintained the cubes facts and dimensions, and optimized ETL logic to load data from the company's disparate data sources into the  warehouse.  * Optimized Extract, Transform and Load speeds to process billions of rows of data by identifying  bottle necks in the control and data flow architecture, and redesigning entire workflows and quickly  implemented and small-scale design patterns. Processing time of the analytics cube was cut from 18 hours of processing to just under 8 hours.  * Created automated system to load job board analytics information from within the data warehouse into  Adobe Omniture's online marketing and web analytics business unit. Metrics that the au tomated system  provided helped the marketing and product development teams decide on critical business decisions and insight into the best marketing campaigns to utilize.  * Maintained and supported the business logic within the emailing service SSIS package. Created new  business processing rules, and ensured data integrity of emailing system. System was always properly tested and followed strict quality guidelines when releasing changes to the production environment. Emailing system  sent out hundreds of millions of jobs to prospective job seekers. Helping to build and strengthen our  economy.  * Took initiative to step above and beyond my daily job functions to help create innovative and new  product ideas. Developed several ideas that were presented to business executives within Dice.com.  Participated in several company sponsored Hack-a-thons to develop cutting edge business intelligence  products. Our team won first prize for idea, presentation, creativity, business impact, and products ability to  "disrupt" the industry.  * Seized opportunities to help grow the careers of fellow colleagues when they were present.  Voluntarily helped train support technicians who were interesting in boosting their career in the world of database development. Senior Software Development Engineer Medical Disability / Leave Software - Westminster, CO 2011 to 2013 Westminster, Colorado  Reed Group, Ltd - Medical Disability Advisor (ASP.NET, MVC, C#.NET, T-SQL, SSIS) 2011 - 2013  * Lead engineer designated to re-implement entire organizations' automation processes. Created  automation engine to handle processing automated tasks through a queuing system that can be dynamically  setup through an MVC 4 administration portal. Built dynamic workflow engines through the Network  Automation BPA Server to handle processing of queue items. Created the MVC 4 administration portal to include a dashboard showing event statuses, configure workflows dynamically, and manage entities.  * Led executive proposal to replace current automation tool and purchase 3 rd party automation  software. The company was spending hundreds of thousands of dollars with missed SLA's and diminishing  client reputation, because of the current automation tool. Researched the most cost effective and reliable  automation product. Led software and hardware design architecture in order to implement new product.  * Setup Visual Team Foundation Server for Absence Manager Team. Over six years the software team  had been struggling to get proper source control implemented and installed.  * Migrated fortune 500 clients ETL jobs over from old DTS to newer SSIS packages. This has increased  performance, as well as, ability to troubleshoot issues for critical jobs.  * Maintained over 25+ client portals to access their medical benefits and disability leave information.  Kept the account managers and clients happy by quickly addressing payroll related issues and errors.  * Spent many sleepless nights monitoring and fixing Priority 1 and 2 mission critical jobs. Many  thankful families are sleeping with peace of mind, knowing that their paychecks are always cut on time.  * Provided support to internal call centers' customer intake application. Software Engineer Internet Marketing - Greenwood Village, CO 2010 to 2011 Lead Generation Software) Greenwood Village, Colorado  netFactor Corporation (ASP.NET, Classic ASP, C#.NET, T-SQL) 2010 - 2011  * Sole software engineer responsible for all new development and maintenance working directory with  CEO and VP of Technology. Engineered new features and functionality for the SaaS website and core  servers using C#, ASP.NET, Classic ASP, Windows Services, Web Services and SQL Server.  * Drastically reduced server processing time of mass campaign mailer by overhauling and completely  threading the entire application. There was an increase of over 45 seconds per email being processed, and statistics showed the campaign emails only took 1 to 2 seconds to fully process and send on each transaction.  * Added a new stream of revenue to company by enabling application to integrate into Salesforce.com.  The company was able to gain more clients and produce more sales with this integration. The integration  enabled the user to import data from the SaaS website and create accounts, leads, and opp ortunities.  * Energized the company by successfully integrating the SaaS website with their ZoomInfo.com  partner. The company noticed an increase in lead generation data after successfully creating new jQuery and  Ajax enabled interfaces, and abilities to better leverage and extract the lead information from the system.  * Improved the competitive advantage of the product by creating a new way to tag prospective leads and quickly act on the hot lead. Customers of the product saw increases in their sales and volum e when they  were able to identify and contact hot leads within 5 - 10 minutes after being on their website.  * Created the ability for clients to receive custom emails based on triggers defined in SaaS website.  Customers reported that they were extremely happy with this new feature and by the ease of use, and format of their data in a clear concise layout. This has become the number one used feature in the application.  * Made the CEO extremely pleased with release of a new White Label Application. This allowed the company to sell their product to any other company that would like to offer a similar product and service.  This application was designed and architected in ASP.NET and C#. The product has increased revenue.  * Modified and added to an application that allows users to easily sign up for trials of the product and to enter in their payment information that is processed by Authorize.net. This significantly reduced the time it  took to get a prospective client to try and purchase the product and services.  * Contributed as a thought leader to help find the best technical and functional solutions to a given  problem. Sat in many meetings to determine the best solution that would improve the company's image and competitiveness with the SaaS products and services.  * Researched and applied new software technologies to help reduce costs and improve productivity and reliability. Consistently pushed to keep the company on the cutting edge of technology where best  appropriate. Converted several applications from Classic ASP to ASP.NET. Enterprise Applications Software Engineer Relocation / Logistics Software - Aurora, CO 2008 to 2010 Aurora, Colorado  Graebel Companies, Inc (ASP.NET, C#.NET, T-SQL, Microsoft SSRS, Microsoft CRM, SOA)  2008 - 2010  * Improved the time it takes for a customer to receive a sales quote by implementing a system of processes that automatically generate key events to different enterprise systems.  * Joined data communication between several enterprise applications through web services using  enterprise service bus using SOA utilizing web services built with Service Oriented Architecture using an enterprise service bus system.  * Created and improved corporate reports allowing customers to accurately track items such as inventory, and expenses; leveraged Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services and Crystal Reports.  * Enabled the business to quickly request checks to be issued customers by developing an intuitive user  interface leveraging the latest Infragistics user interface controls. Business was extremely happy with ease of use and functionality.  * Managed the customization of workflows for the Microsoft Customer Relationship Management (CRM)  system. Implemented solutions to allow the business to receive third party customer leads, process the information and place the lead in the correct sales queue for processing.  * Maintained over five enterprise applications providing customer support to mission critical bugs. Re- factored thousands of lines of code, and improved system performance throughout the enterprise  applications. Business Technology Software Engineer (Financial Management Software) Madison Capital Management Company - Greenwood Village, CO 2006 to 2008 Greenwood Village, Colorado  Madison Capital Management Company (VB.NET, ASP.NET, MVC) 2006 - 2008  * Strategically designed, prototyped, and implemented mission critical IT software solutions that  exceeded client standards, while providing technical leadership across the organization.  * Saved $2 million annually by developing a standalone web application that manages the company's liquid  assets, gaining top recognition from company partners and principles.  * Rapidly delivered re-factored subsystems within company intranet by increasing prototyping turnaround of GUI interface design, translating and optimizing business requirements and logic algorithms to shorten  development cycles, and increased product management visibility through Agile Development.  * Reduced system downtime and profit loss by responding and resolving over 200 mission critical issues.  Ensured consistent stability of web services on production serves by being on -call for all issues.  * Ported enterprise application from Microsoft Visual Studio 2003/2005 to 2008 touching over 600,000  lines of code essential for enhanced security, reliability, and performance of application. Software Developer Call Center Software - Aurora, CO 2002 to 2006 * Strategically re-engineered the competitive software solution for the account services business to effectively help drive approximately $1M in annual revenue growth.  * Spearheaded implementation, migration, and customization of Microsoft SharePoint Portal technology  that bridged the businesses boundaries of instant communication and collaboration driving efficiency and productivity.  * Design lead for one of the largest clients to scope their entire system architecture and workflow strategy and generate the most cost efficient development business solution.  * Managed enterprise code from offshore development to add new functionality and enhance usability to exceed consumer expectations while maintaining a cost competitive position.  * Developed integral scheduling application for an enterprise telephony system, which served large  business customers by improving their customer management and organization -wide business quality.  * Increased product quality and image by implementing eHelp framework and documentation.  * Exceeded customer relations by serving as an emergency onsite engineer enhancing communication between the company, partners, and customers.  * Scored a competitive win-back from a major competitor by assisting as development advisor for sales. Education School of Engineering 2007 B.S. in Advanced Computer Architecture University of Denver Skills .NET (10+ years), C# (10+ years), ENGINEER (10+ years), ASP (10+ years), ASP.NET (10+ years), AngularJS (1 year), SQL Server (8 years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Software Developer Present Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate Present Additional Information Technologies - C#.NET, ASP.NET, Classic ASP, T-SQL, CSS3, HTML5, AJAX, AngularJS, node.js, jQuery, JSON,  XML, JavaScript, Razor View Engine, Entity Framework, Twitter Bootstrap Framework, SignalR  Architectures - MVC, ASP.NET (MVC5/Core 2), Web API, Windows Services  Applications - Microsoft Visual Studio .NET, Microsoft SQL Server (T-SQL), Microsoft SQL Server Integration  Services (SSIS), Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS), Microsoft SQL Service Broker, Microsoft Windows  Workflow Foundation (WF), Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS)  UI Components - DevExpress Components, Infragistics NetAdvantage Components, Telerik Components  Reporting - Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Reports, Data Dynamics ActiveReports.NET  API Integrations - SalesForce.com (APEX), ZoomInfo.com, JigSaw.com, Hexillion.com, Authorize.net    TECHNOLOGY EXPERIENCE SUMMARY:  Business Intelligence and Analytics Company - Senior Software Developer  * Principle architect, charged with designing, developing, maintaining, and supporting the full-stack and  development lifecycle of the business intelligence analytics portal. The portal allows users to view their  analytics data within a dashboard that can be accessed from any mobile device. Built in C# and ASP.NET  MVC 5 on the .NET 4.6 framework, that utilizes DevExpress components to connect to the major databases  such as Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, and Oracle.    HealthGrades, Inc. - healthgrades.com - Senior Database Developer  * Key developer on critical team to redo the way data is processed and tracked from the healthgrades.com  website to the database. Demonstrated and implemented a rules engine execution framework that utilized  Microsoft Windows Workflow Foundation, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft SQL Service Broker, ASP.NET  WebAPI, C#, RabbitMQ, and SignalR. Developed and maintained Microsoft SQL Server T-SQL stored  procedures that helped improve the core functionality of the company's objectives.    Dice Holdings, Inc. - dice.com - Senior Database Developer  * Ensured operability and data integrity of Dice.com business intelligence analytics cube through SSAS.  Developed and maintained OLAP warehouse database. Improved architecture of ETL process of disparate  data sources into data warehouse in SSIS. Created Smart Alert emailing database structure and related SSIS  packages. Developed and maintained Email Service business logic and database architecture. Helped create  innovative and new product ideas. Supported and helped maintain positive environment and career growth of  colleagues.    Reed Group, Ltd. - reedgroup.com - Senior Software Engineer  * Created workflows within Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) for ETL environment.  Developed in C# using ASP.NET in the MVC 4 on the .NET 4.5 framework with the model built around the  Entity Framework to a Microsoft SQL Server database written in T-SQL. Built automation infrastructure  with Network Automation BPA Server. Maintained Microsoft Access call center application. Setup Team  Foundation Server repository to track development progress and maintain code.    netFactor Corp. - netfactor.com - Software Engineer  * Maintained 24x7 high transaction cloud server SAAS environment. Developed application in C# using web  forms architecture with a Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2 backend. Maintained portal built in Classic ASP  utilizing JavaScript and VBScript. Built new applications in ASP.NET. Setup Tortuous SVN Source Control  to track code releases and versioning. Integrated with Force.com APEX web services for user portal.