UI Developer/React JS Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span>/React JS <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI DEVELOPER/REACT JS DEVELOPER(Remote role only) Springfield, IL Searching for the opportunity to bring years of programming, technology, and engineering expertise in developing software's while incorporating critical thinking, problem solving, and leadership. Work Experience UI Developer/React JS Developer January 2016 to Present • Involved in Requirement analysis, preparing software Design document, development, debugging of Operations Management module in Strategic Billing project.  • Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner by using web technologies like HTML/ HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3 as per company standards.  • Extensively used CSS LESS/SASS as pre-processors which extend the properties of CSS.  • Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Redux for SPA development.  • Implemented React JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozella, IE 7, 8, 9, Safari.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Used the flickity.js for creating carousel-images.  • Developed component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • In Phase Two, worked closely with the Back-End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  • Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using Redux.  • Working with ECMA Script 6 features for building of JSX and used Babel, web pack.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status.  • Integration with Rich Relevance/CDN/CMS/Optimize.  • Developing the rich UI components in Optimizely.  • Used D3.js library for producing dynamic, interactive data visualizations in web browsers.  • Use JavaScript and D3.js to implement interactive visualizations of criminal data sets in JSON and CSV format.  • Google Maps API for U.S. cities are overplayed on the map using D3.js. Simple buttons trigger basic animations for the cities.  • Extensively used Gitfor version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Worked with Mocha unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Extensively used debugging tools such as Firebug and IE Dev tools to investigate the issues and fix the bugs.  • Wrote code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in IE 7, 8, 9 and FF.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for fixing of Issues.  • Interacted with Customers and development teams for Fix the Issues.  • Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team.    Environment:HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap,SASS, LESS, Java Script, J Query, React JS, Redux, Flux, AWS, Web Strom, JSP, MS Office, HP Quality Center, Jasmine, GitHub, and Jenkins. UI Developer MERN STACK June 2014 to December 2015 • Attended Daily standup meetings (Scrum), Estimation meetings and Requirement review meetings to analyze requirements for project.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • CSS styles were developed to preserve the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Developed the Login, Policy and Claims Screens for customers using AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Developed responsive applications using Bootstrap which allowed the same application to be optimized for both mobile and desktop resolutions.  • InvolveddesigninginwebpagesusingHTML5,CSS3,JavaScript, Bootstrap,SASS, LESS, React.js, Redux, Flux, Mongo DB.  • Developed Web API using NodeJS, ReactJS and ReactNative and hosted on multiple lead balances API instances.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Secured HTTP/Web Sockets requests with JWT and authorization middleware's to prevent security threats  • ResponsibleforReactUIandarchitecture.Buildingcomponentslibrary,includingTree,Slide-View,and Table Grid.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Used Web socket for publish services for continuous geo-location information updates to Google Maps.  • Built applications using React.JS which allowed us to render pages on both the client and server using the same codebase.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Using React JS to implement rich functions in various pages: form validation, crud, gridlist, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced/custom directives, authentication, unit tests, etc.  • Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between Server side to Client Side.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, Sass,Less, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ajax, React JS, Redux, React Native, Flux, My SQL, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, Git hub, Restful API, AWS, JIRA, Jasmine and Web Strom. UI Developer January 2013 to May 2014 • Extensively involved in front end screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, CSS and Ajax.  • Developed responsive applications using Bootstrap which allowed the same application to be optimized for both mobile and desktop resolutions.  • WorkedonanAgile(Scrum) managers.  • Involved in designing and developing the webpagesusingHTML5,CSS3,JavaScript, Bootstrap,SASS, LESS, React.js, Flux , Node JS, Mongo DB,  • ResponsibletoStyle, such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Involved to implementvariousscreensforthefrontendusingReact.jsandusedvariouspredefinedcomponentsfromNPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Implemented AJAX call from Angular JS at client to Express JS at Node JS server.  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage modules & used it to install useful tools as Grunt, and Express.  • Developed the application on Node JS platform using JavaScript programming  • Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Developed single application to render dynamically based on the JSON from the Node JS server  • Fetch data from mongo DB using mongoose of Node.js  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • ResponsibleforReactUIandarchitecture.Buildingcomponentslibrary,includingTree,Slide-View,and Table Grid.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used React-autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • ConfiguredWeb packtoexecutelinters,magnifiers,pre/post-processors,tests,transpires,etc.basedon build target.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Developed the Reactcontainerandpresentationalcomponents(asStatelessandFunctionalcomponents when applicable).  • Developed the flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  • Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between Server side to Client Side  • Worked with Mocha unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication. UI Developer Apollo Hospitals January 2010 to December 2012 • Working as A UI Developer, assisting my team in Designing and developing UI for an internal Web-based application.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Used Java Script, AJAX, XML, HTML and CSS for developing the Web component of the application.  • Worked with clients to develop layout, color scheme for their website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Created webpages according to client's guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Extensively used CSS to change the styles to be used in future web layouts and debugging the errors issues with CSS.  • Designed web pages using XHTML and CSS/CSS3.  • Implemented functionality in JavaScript.  • This product currently being used by the hospital personnel for handling patients, moving stock across different stores in the hospital.  • It has features like module restriction based on user group, automatic user logoff, restricted user logon on more than one node, automated allocation and de-allocation of tasks to the logged in users.  • It also includes various modules like Registration, Billing, Pharmacy and Nursing desk.  • Tested application on Internet Explorer 6.0 and above, Firefox, Opera and Google Chrome to achieve Cross Browser Compatible Issues.  • Converted Photoshop documents to table-less semantic XHTML, CSS.  • Performed Validations of XHTML and CSS (using Firebug,HTML Tidy, W3C validator).  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap Adobe Photoshop, JSON, AJAX, PHP, MySQL. Software developer ASM Technologies January 2007 to December 2009 • Interacted with business analyst to understand the requirements to ensure correct UI modules been built to meet business requirements.  • Worked in developing dynamic robust UI screens using CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Backbone, and jQuery.  • Developed web pages using Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components.  • Used MVC architecture of Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  • Worked on CSS preprocessor frameworks (SASS/LESS).  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Implemented Data Grid, Charts, Forms and Layout Manager Components.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts, fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts such as OO Design, Multithreading, Generics Exception Handling, Collections, Java Reflection, Annotations.  • Taken care of complete Java Multi-threading part in back end components.  • Involved in the development of project back-end logic layer by using most of the core java features such as Collection Framework, Interfaces, Multi-Threading and Exception Handling programming.  • Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Involved with all stages of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development phase of the application.  • As a team member, I was involved in preparing design documents - Technical Design, Functional Design Technical Domain documents, Application Interface Contract and Service Interface Contract Documents.  • Used SVN the version control tool for code commit and update.  • Worked on the web services and front-end design and solved the issues with the JQuery.  • Extensively involved in writing MySQL, PL/SQL queries, to interact with Oracle.  Environment: HTML, CSS, Web Logic, Java, JDBC, Servlets, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, AJAX, SVN and Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills C#, C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, REDUX, JSON, VB.NET, XML, AJAX, ASP, CSS, ASP.NET, TOMCAT, UI WEB, WEB SERVER, WEB SERVICES, WEB SPHERE, WEBLOGIC