Senior Software Specialist Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Specialist Senior Software Specialist - SEEDAC, LLC Alpharetta, GA Over 12 years of experience in Java (J2EE/Java EE, J2SE), Object  Oriented Analysis & Design (OOA&D) & SDLC.  Expertise in consuming Workday HR, Payroll &  Financial_Management SOAP-based Web-services API.  Integrated 100 thousand WDAY employees into client box.  Expertise in implementing MVC Architecture frameworks such as  Struts, Spring MVC.  Expertise in SpringBoot, Spring Ioc, Spring AOP and Object-  Relational (OR mapping) Mapping tools such as Hibernate.  Involved in Dockerization, used compose file for development and  stacks for production deployment.  Designed screens for single-page applications using Angular.  Expertise in generating SOAP WSDL files and Rest WADL files for  third-party consumers.  Expertise in ADP EV5 File generation by integrating multiple ERP  systems.  Expertise in consuming Peoplesoft Restful web services for Human  Resource and Payroll.  Extensively used Java Design patterns.  Expertise in TRAVEL-PORT and AIR-CANNADA flight booking web-  services API.  Extensive working experience in STAX, SAX and DOM Parsers.  Configured and administered JDBC connection pools and Data  sources for Tomcat and JBoss server.  Have worked on Oracle 9i databases. Have done SQL query  optimization.  Excellent knowledge of writing Ant and Maven scripts to automate  build and deployment process.  Configured JDBC data source, JMS connection factories queues and  topics.  Deployed applications in WAR JAR and EAR formats in Domain and  Clustered environments.  Configured the JMS setup on JBoss Application server.  Well versed with Agile & Scrum methodologies.  Well versed with Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit.  Strong background in services-oriented and business solutions  delivery.  Ability to meet deadlines and handle pressure in coordinating  multiple tasks in a work/project environment. Strong communication,  organizational and interpersonal competencies along with detail-  oriented and problem-solving skills in the technology arena. Work Experience Senior Software Specialist SEEDAC, LLC July 2013 to Present Georgia, USA  As Lead Java developer designed the sequential and class diagrams for the entire workflow of the project.  Worked on consuming Workday HR, Payroll & Financial_Management SOAP- based Web-services API.  Integrated 100 thousand WDAY employees into client box.  Worked on implementing MVC Architecture frameworks such as Struts, Spring  MVC.  Worked on SpringBoot, Spring Ioc, Spring AOP and Object-Relational (OR  mapping) Mapping tools such as Hibernate.  Worked on Dockerization, used compose file for development and stacks for production deployment.  Designed screens for single-page applications using Angular.  Expertise in Workday HR and Payroll Web-services API.  Expertise in configuring business process types in Workday System.  Expertise in ADP EV5 File generation by integrating multiple ERP systems.  Extensively used Java Design patterns.  Expertise in generating SOAP WSDL files and Rest WADL files for third-party  consumers.  Responsible for gathering the requirements from different clients for their  ADP(Automatic Data Processing) payroll configuration.  Responsible for gathering the requirements from different clients for their  workday payroll and Human Resource configuration.  Implemented separate SOAP-based request and response handlers for sending the request and receiving a response from different web services of  workday(Payroll, HR Web services).  Responsible for High Level and Low-level Object design  Responsible for end to end development of web service application using the technologies such as Java, spring, SOAP web service and hibernate.  Created SOAP web service using Apache Axis 2 for publishing import and export API's.  Applied Agile and Scrum methodologies for developing the project.  Have followed the test-driven development using the JUnit.  Responsible for Release Management and Production deployment.  Managing team of 3 Java developers and helping them in all their technical  challenges. Software Specialist Valtech India December 2010 to May 2013 2 years 6 months)  Bengaluru Area, India  Involved in analysis of Travelport and AirCanada supplier request, response  xml's in all stages.  Applied Agile and Scrum methodologies for developing the project.  Consumed web services provided by Travelport and AirCanada to make  booking for Flight, Hotel and car.  Created RESTful Web Services to redirect user to desired location.  Involved in creating java objects using JAXB from the XSD files.  Involved in creating common Travel supplier's xml's using XSLT.  Involved in creating EJB for persisting the data.  Involved in writing Spring and Hibernate Configuration files.  Involved in creating JPA mapping for the database tables.  Involved in setting the environment for production servers.  Involved in writing Spring Action classes and configuration files.  Extensively followed SCRUM methodology.  Designed and developed the Air application for different clubs of TST.  Used Spring and Hibernate for business logic processing and for database  transactions.  Involved in consuming the Web Services for the application which was  provided by Travelport, AirCanada third party vendor to get the availability as well as pricing information.  Developed web pages using HTML, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  Strong ability to diagnose critical problems and develop solutions.  Strong understanding and experience with the database MySQL and MSSQL.  Migrated parts of code from Java to Scala.  Participated in Release and Iteration Planning meetings with engineers.  Performed unit testing by writing test methods using JUnit. Software Specialist Adea Solutions November 2009 to December 2010 1 year 2 months)  Bangalore Area, India  Responsible for taking requirements from the client directly.  Involved in Design the component to fit into their existing environment.  Implemented marshalling and un-marshalling of java objects through XMLBeans.  Created RESTful webservice using spring for taking client request to get call from customer care.  Applied Agile and Scrum methodologies for developing the project.  Implemented the Thread pool executor after scheduling the task.  Implemented handling of failed call response from the customer.  Involved in writing Spring and Hibernate Configuration files.  Involved in creating JPA mapping for the database tables.  Involved in setting the environment for production servers.  Involved in writing Spring Action classes and configuration files.  Used Spring Annotation and Hibernate for business logic processing and for database transactions.  Developed web pages using HTML, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  Performed unit testing by writing test methods using JUnit.  Delphi Software Engineer September 2006 to October 2008 2 years 2 months)  Bangalore india  Involved in taking requirements with clients.  Involved in designing using UML diagrams.  Involved in coding for both front end using jsp and back end using java.  Involved in JDBC Connectivity and writing Stored Procedure.  Involved in testing by manually and using JUNIT.  Involved in deploying application in Web Server.  Have worked extensively on Struts, and Spring MVC Software Developer ProInt Software November 2005 to August 2006 10 months)  Bangalore Area, India  Involved in taking requirements with clients.  Involved in coding for both front end using jsp and back end using java.  Involved in JDBC Connectivity and writing SQL statements.  Involved in testing by manually and using JUNIT.  Involved in deploying application in Web Server.  Have worked extensively on Struts, and Struts MVC. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science Malnad College of Engineering - Hassan, Karnataka 2001 to 2005 Associate's Degree in Mathematics and Computer Science Sri Venkateshwara Pre University College - Hassan, Karnataka 2000 to 2001 Aravinda High School - Hassan, Karnataka 1997 to 1999 Skills Java, Javascript, Xml Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/pruthvi-raj-rajendra-650ab613?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3BPvdII4OwSU%2BTtH%2FvvKBbqQ%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile Additional Information Top Skills  Java  JavaScript  XML