Front-End Developer Front-End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer San Luis Obispo, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front-End Developer Toptal November 2015 to Present Senior web developer on the Toptal network servicing clients as   needed through the internal recruitment process.  Freelance Web Developer San Luis Obispo, CA January 2013 to Present • Developing web application structure and renovating existing web site design for a number of local and national clients.  • Full stack development utilizing front-end technologies, PHP, Wordpress, and Apache web environments.  Software Developer McMillan Study Guides, Inc. - San Luis Obispo, CA May 2016 to August 2019 • Maintained the company front website as well as online web- based software products for delivering content to customers.  • Involved in the design of SPA LMS e-learning platform and authoring tool.  Sr. Interactive Developer ROSETTA MARKETING GROUP - San Luis Obispo, CA July 2012 to January 2013 • Responsible for developing professional online presences for a variety of clients, including interactive web applications and content management systems.  • Front-end design and development, mobile web sites, directed services for a wide variety of connected devices, interactive dashboard utilizing Canvas and SVG technologies, kiosk guided tours and surveys, delivered video conferencing sites, etc.  • Specialized in standards- compliant HTML code, Javascript web applications including AJAX and JSON, use of Javascript libraries such as jQuery, Mootools, Prototype, ExtJS, Yepnope, Modernizr, CSS3 compliant site design with fallbacks for older browsers, responsive web design for targeted mobile devices, and REST integration with back-end services.  UI Developer LEVEL Studios - San Luis Obispo, CA June 2008 to July 2012 • Content management and directed site design for successful local marketing agency for over four years.  • Developed commercial web pages and sites for enterprise-level clients, including national and international corporations. Specialized in delivering standards-compliant code across a wide variety of connected devices and web browser applications.  • Performed maintenance for existing sites, including updating content for a national sports web site.  WEB DESIGNER Cuesta College Inst. Adv - San Luis Obispo, CA June 2007 to June 2008 • Renovation of older web pages, elimination of obsolete material and creatively updating code and marketing thrust of main pages to reflect a new direction taken by the community college.  • Also worked for County Board of Education as part of non-paid internship for the Web certification pursued and attained at Cuesta College. Education Associate in Web Development Certification Cuesta College - San Luis Obispo, CA June 2000 to June 2003 Skills Front End (10+ years), UI (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Node (2 years), Typescript (2 years), Front-End (10+ years), HTML5 (10+ years), Bootstrap, Jquery (9 years), Bootstrap (8 years) Links https://github.com/slowebworkz Certifications/Licenses Web Development Technologies Certification June 2006 to Present Assessments English Communication Skills: Typing — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bavcbym64tebxceb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.