Software Developer III in Test, Electromagnetic System (EMS) <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> III in Test, Electromagnetic System (EMS) Software Developer III in Test, Electromagnetic System (EMS) San Diego, CA Committed Software Engineer in Test with extensive experience in full life cycle of the software development process. Proficient at designing and implementing test automation frameworks in various languages. Excellent communication skills and a consistent team player in all sorts of environments. Seeking new challenge with an expanding organization. Work Experience Software Developer III in Test, Electromagnetic System (EMS) General Atomics June 2016 to January 2019 Worked on Navy's Advanced Arresting Gear (AAG) - a system of computer-controlled machinery that catches airplanes landing on the new Gerald R. Ford aircraft carrier. The system has over 50 processors interconnected by a local network. Software qualification testing is performed in an environment that simulates the physical equipment with realistic network communications between system software components and equipment software simulators. HealthMap software is one of the components that provides status and health assessment to the entire AAG. Worked with a scrum based agile team involved in the 4WireSimulators software bugs fixing and features implementation.  • Resolved and fixed 4WireSimulators bugs and features within project time and budget.  • Significantly reduced time and effort spent in manual testing by automating most of HealthMap test procedures.  • Developed long-term relationships with developers, testing, and hardware personnel through dynamic listening and communication skills.  • Developed, updated, and well-tested C# code for 4WireSimulators software to accommodate HealthMap testing.  • Coordinated installation of 4WireSimulators software and collaborated on the design and implementation of new features.  • Implemented Water Twister Isolation Valve feature for Arresting Engine Controller (AEC) simulator using C#.  • Modified, and updated existing Brake Test and Continuous Retract features to accommodate Brake Servo Controller (BSC) change request using C#.  • Resolved testing issues by establishing workarounds and solutions and by debugging and creating defect fixes.  • Identified the root cause of continuous arrestment synchronization issues on the Arresting Engine Controller (AEC) simulator and applied effective timely technology resolution.  • Designed and developed code for a socket-based thread-safe to eliminate synchronization issues for AEC&BSC - HATS (an-in house test automation system) communications using task-based .NET Framework 4.5.  • Designed and implemented communication interface between HATS and AEC&BSC.  • Instrumented and modified unit and integration tests to improve 4WireSimulators and HATS software quality and reliability.  • Automated AEC&BSC BIT(Built-in-test) which resulted in reduction of total testing time from 8 hours to 1 hour.  • Developed and created automated scripts to support HATS using shell, batch and python.  • Wrote unit test in Gensym g2 used for HATS-AEC&BSC socket communication.  • Created automated installation framework to support Squish software package installation in windows and Linux.  • Trained team members on how to use automation programs and troubleshooting.  • Worked closely with software developers to identify and resolve HealthMap and 4WireSimulators software bugs.  • Performed code deploy and merge into the main release through cvs, Git, bitbucket source control.  • Development involves windows7, CentOs6, Redhat6, Opensuse11, MySQL, MS Visio, VS Studio15, python3.6. General Atomics - San Diego, CA 2008 to 2019 Software Developer II in Test, General Atomics Electromagnetic System General Atomics February 2014 to June 2016 • Promoted to Software Developer III within 24 months of joining GA-EMS as a result of outstanding work performance.  • Successfully developed, updated and executed test plans, procedures and test scripts for HealthMap and 4WireSimulators to find defects in software and pinpoint workflow issues.  • Installed, troubleshooted and tested HealthMap and 4WireSimulators software on client site and lab, ensuring that they functioned correctly.  • Took on tasks that had been originally assigned to colleagues to decrease their workloads, effectively completing them within their expected time constraints.  • Identified bugs and offered suggestions for resolution that were within the project budget.  • Completed business requirements analysis including the evaluation of systems specifications for 4WireSimulators two weeks ahead of deadline.  • Trained new employees to acquaint them with HealthMap and 4WireSimulators software, resulting in quicker overall completion dates.  • Created detailed test plans, test cases and test scripts that were comprehensive and well-received by system and integration group.  • Improved HealthMap and 4WireSimulators usability by creating feature enhancement requests.  • Developed 4WireSimulators Software Requirement Specifications SRS.  • Analyzed, documented, and tracked HealthMap and 4WireSimulators defects to ensure corrections were implemented.  • Tracked, logged and reported defects using TeamForge defect management tools and Confluence JIRA.  • Performed thorough regression testing when bugs were resolved.  • Identified areas of the HealthMap and 4WireSimulators applications to be regression tested.  • Traveled to client site and answered questions via phone and email so that issues were remedied in a timely manner.  • Provided onsite training to new hires.  • Served as operating system expert, providing technical support to integration team and developers.  • Prepared daily project status updates to keep staff up-to-date on program changes and task requirements.  • Explored new technologies and tools that could be used for testing purposes.  • Supported software department in ISO process improvement. Software Developer I General Atomics September 2011 to February 2014 Worked on Control of Lynx Analysis Workstation (CLAW) which is a mission management system for integrated sensor payload control and images analysis software. Also worked on System for Tactical Archival, Retrieval, and Exploitation (STARE), a system that provides intelligence at the tactical level used by Ground Control Station (GCS).  • Executed, and updated STARE and CLAW software applications test cases.  • Tracked and reported on a timely matter, several valuable defects within each project release.  • Identified, verified, and documented software defects using TFS bug tracking system.  • Conducted STARE and CLAW User Acceptance Testing.  • Analyzed requirements and created detailed and well-structured test plans and test cases for Big Data Project.  • Maintained detailed recordkeeping by updating software documentation.  • Worked efficiently under strict deadlines to make sure that software deliverables were available for scheduled releases.  • Logged and documented test results.  • Development involves Windows7, MS SQL Server, IIS, Visual SourceSafe, PowerShell. Software Developer I in Test General Atomics March 2008 to September 2011 Worked on Storage Resource Broker (SRB) which is a software that provides metadata management for unstructured data by using a single global namespace across any storage device anywhere in the world.  • Documented defects and software problems using Itracker and Bugzilla.  • Performed thorough regression testing when bugs were resolved.  • Assessed and tested SRB builds to uncover bugs and assisted in finding resolutions.  • Developed test cases, scripts and procedures to perform software testing.  • Developed and implemented scripted SQL query to produce monthly Itracker bug report.  • Worked extensively with engineering staff to better understand SRB Software-as-a-Service solutions and their benefits to projects.  • Developed status reports based on test completion and test findings.  • Designed, and developed reusable automated scripts using bash shell for SRB testing.  • Created, edited, and updated SRB manuals and technical documentation.  • Development involves Fedora2, Solaris10, Oracle10g, MySQL, Apache, AIX, Mac OS Web Developer Professional Satellite & Communications, LLC - San Diego, CA November 2006 to February 2007 Worked with a small team to fix bugs and implement new features in.NET, VB and MySQL for marketing and sales.  • Participated in pre-project analysis and technical assessments to ensure the creation of a user-friendly interface.  • Created successful page designs and navigation frameworks that achieved usability requirements.  • Built reusable code in VB.net that could be utilized in other projects, effectively saving the company money.  • Checked websites for usability, functionality and design issues.  • Identified website issues through effective troubleshooting, testing and remedying before deployment.  • Troubleshooted and resolved web application issues escalated from customer support and other departments with a 100% success rate.  • Designed effective interfaces technologies, frameworks and libraries such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript and XML.  • Analyzed project requirements to find bugs and eliminate issues within a timely manner.  • Explored new technologies and tools that the quality assurance team could use for testing purposes. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science San Diego State University - San Diego, CA 2005 Associate of Arts in (AA), General Studies Grossmont College - El Cajon, CA 2002 Skills Ms access, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql Additional Information Skills  • Effective Oral and Written Communication  • Detail Oriented and Team Player  • Quick Learner with Strong collaborative Skills  • Self-Motivated, Works Independently  • Time Management Skills  • Software Development Life Cycle  • Agile Development Process and Methodologies  • GUI Development  • Object-Oriented Programming  • Programming and Design  • Web Development  • Simulations, Test Automation and Scripting  • System Administration and Databases  • Strong Debugging and Troubleshooting Skills  • Software System and Integration Testing  • Test Case Development  • Testing and Results Analysis  • Project Documentation    • Windows, UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Red Hat, CentOs, Fedora, OpenSuse, AIX, Mac OS  • Java, C/C++, C#, Qt, g2, PHP, ASP, WFA, WPF, .Net  • UML, MS Visio  • HTML, CSS, XML, QML  • Bash, Batch, Perl, Python, JavaScript  • MS Access, MS SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle10g  • TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, SNMP  • IIS, Apache  • MS Visual SourceSafe, CVS, WinCVS  • Bugzilla, Mantis, Itracker  • TeamTrack, TeamForge, TFS, Atlassian, JIRA, Confluence, Bitbucket, Git  • DreamWeaver, Code Blocks, MS Visual Studio 2010 - 2017, Eclipse 3.2, Qt Creator 4.0  • unit++  • VMware, VirtualBox