Software Developer (Fullstack) <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Fullstack) Software Developer (Fullstack) - HIREtech Houston, TX Quickly assimilates new knowledge, and effectively applies the knowledge to enhance performance of the job. An excellent team player with the ability to work autonomously. Thrives in a target driven environment, taking great pride in delivering beyond customer expectations. Highly skilled and results-oriented professional with solid academic preparation holding a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Degree and having extensive experience in  software industry as a software Engineer in reputed IT organizations.    Career Summary    Over 5 years of professional .NET development experience in designing and developing client server applications, windows and web-based solutions in various domains including enterprise applications using Microsoft Technologies.  • An expert in developing multi-tier web applications and web services using ASP.NET Core, ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NETWEB API, ADO.NET, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular, JavaScript, jQuery, Entity Framework, LINQ, Dapper and T-SQL.    • Used Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern to develop a complex web application, Expertise in development of applications in MVC using razor, html helpers, Views, Layouts, Controller action methods, View Models, validators, Attributes and Action Filters.    • Good Experience in developing and consuming SOAP, REST with ASP.NET Web Services, WCF, and Web API using C#.NET, and extensively used AngularJs and Angular 2-8 Framework in developing Single Page Application (SPA).    • Extensive experienced in SQL Server Database design (EER), Database maintenance, developing T-SQL queries, LINQ queries, Stored Procedures, Views, Functions and Triggers using SQL Server 2005/ 2008/ 2008R2/ 2012/2016.    • Involved in all Phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) i.e. Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing and User Training of Enterprise Web-Applications, Stand-alone and Distributed applications.    • Familiar with Agile development methodologies and processes, also working with JIRA project management software to work with bug tracking, issue tracking and project management functions.    • A highly motivated individual who aspires to pursue a challenging career which enables the use of his knowledge and competency to deliver service excellence. Work Experience Software Developer (Fullstack) HIREtech - Houston, TX July 2018 to Present • Projects    • HIREtech - Hire tech is a technology-focused human capital management solution and tax incentive firm that provides software and services to help companies save time, save money, and reduce risk.  Our exclusive technology platform enables businesses to access the real-time data and intelligence to make important financial and hiring decisions. Services include Work Opportunity Tax Credits (WOTC), Employment & Wage Verification, I-9/E-Verify, and Unemployment Claims Management (UCM). Bridging the gap between human resources, tax, and finance, HIREtech delivers industry leading results. (Team Size: 20 Members)    • Technologies Used Senior Software Engineer Hypercent Technologies - Colombo, LK June 2017 to June 2018 • Projects  • LMS- This is an ASP.Net Web API and Angular 2 web application which addresses the issues resulting from manual tracking of leads and the performance of executives in managing these leads. Therefore, the end goal is to create an application, which would enable end to end tracking of leads from its source until the realization of revenue by converting the same in to a customer. (Team Size: 10 Members)    • Us Tax File - This is an ASP.Net MVC web application which enables US residents and businesses to file their annual taxes through a web-based tax filing solution. This solution automates all the calculations related to tax filing process. This automation avoids any human errors related to manual paper-based tax filing process and ensures US government receive the correct tax amount from each user. Users can enter individual amounts related to their applicable tax filing type and system automatically calculate and submits the final tax amount to internal revenue service. (IRS) Administrator of the application can review each user's tax filing applications if there is any problem with any user's tax filing data. Administrator can maintain a blog and share tax filing related knowledge and relevant electronic materials such as instructions and recent changes made to the tax filing process by IRS with users. (Team Size: 10 Members)    • Transcend World - This is an ASP.Net MVC web application which manages vehicle dispatch system which maintains vehicle details, driver details, tour package details and issue dispatch requests on demand. Driver assigning, issuing dispatch requests, calculating trip fares, closing vouchers and generating reports based on various conditions for business intelligence are the main components of the system. This system has a separate API component that is consumed by another third-party service provider to provide GPS meter reading for each vehicle. (Team Size: 10 Members)    • Technologies Used  ASP.Net Web API 2 ASP.Net MVC 5 Angular 2 jQuery  JavaScript Ajax HTML5 CSS Associate Software Engineer, Software Engineer VIRTUSA - Colombo, LK December 2014 to May 2017 • Projects  • ATP Aviation Hub(TM) - This is a cloud-based application that provides streamlined maintenance workflows for aircraft maintenance facilities and monitoring and research tools for aircraft owners/operators. The Dashboard Service (DAS) enables the owner/operator to directly interface with the maintenance facility for work status, utilization updates, discrepancy issues, etc. For research purposes, the Library (RLA) Service provides access to trust and current regulatory and OEM information. (Team Size: 25 Members)    • Reservation Plus - SriLankan Airlines - This is a REST based service implementation for mobile clients to cater for reservation creation and management for the Sri Lankan Airlines. These services act as the middle layer for the mobile application and provide a simplified interface to access the Amadeus Airline system. Therefore, this system consumes Amadeus web services and provides Json serialized web services. As design patterns this system uses dependency injection and dapper repository. This middle layer implementation takes into considering the entire cross cutting concerns including security, cashing, logging and exception handling. It adheres to an architecture of create separation of considerations and future extensible requirements. (Team Size: 15 Members)    • Technologies Used    ASP.Net Web API 2 ASP.Net MVC 4 jQuery NHibernate  JavaScript Ajax HTML5 CSS  Bootstrap Azure Dapper Microsoft SQLr2012/2014  Microsoft Unity Xamarin    • Roles & Responsibilities  • Designed user interface with Razor View Engine and HTML Helpers for application development using ASP.NETMVC 4 and implemented business logic using C#.  • Used Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery for client-side functionality and used state management techniques such as Session State, View State and Cookies.  • Implemented Client-side validation using jQuery, JavaScript and Data annotations to do validation on the Model Data and Involved in building a rich view in MVC 4 application using Bootstrap accordion and paging for displaying data.  • Developed Restful service using Web API 2 and implement token-based authentication to working with mobile application which build in Xamarin.  • Developed Middle-tier Business component using .NET to combine business logic and implemented back end connectivity using NHibernate.  • Follow agile development methodology as software development life cycle and working with JIRA software for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management functions. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University College Dublin March 2010 to August 2014 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, DESIGN PATTERNS, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, ASP.NET WEB API, WCF, OBJECT ORIENTED, OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING, SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT, ASP, CSS, ASP.NET, SOA, HTML5, MVC, MVVM, WPF, NET, Angular, Jquery