Software Developer Consultant <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Consultant Senior Software Developer/Analyst Austin, TX 20 years of professional IT experience in software development and production development operations support.     15 years of experience in system analysis, design, web development (XHTML, HTML, CSS, Python/Django, Javascript, JQuery, Angular, many other UI tools), backend development (Natural, SQL/PL SQL (Oracle, mySql) ), database design and modeling and for the University of Texas at Austin in academic, financial, and administrative areas with a strong background in all aspects of software lifecycle. Experience in major programming languages, operating hardware and software.     5 years of experience as a Weblogic Administrator/System Engineer for production applications and operations support of AT&T Mobility’s eCommerce website.     I'm looking for opportunities in the software development and operations side of IT business. I enjoy both software development and system administration work, and a mix of both would be ideal. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Consultant Neos Consulting - Austin, TX July 2017 to Present Software developer coding, maintaining, enhancing, and transitioning legacy applications using Natrural/Adabas, DB2, CICS, TSO to Java architected cloud based application solution. Senior Software Developer/Analyst University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX October 2015 to June 2017 • Involved in all aspects of SDLC (Requirements gathering, writing scope documents, designing database files/tables/schemas (Oracle, MySQL, ADABAS/Natural), coding backend processes, designing and coding web front end using : Python/Django, Angular, Boostrap, and other UI tools).  • Converting existing mainframe legacy applications (ADABAS Natrual, Cobol) to more industry standard RESTful API objects using Mule ESB.  • Analyzing , architecting, and executing solutions for transforming existing mainframe legacy application data, and for loading into more industry standard databases (Oracle, MySQL). Systems Engineer/ Weblogic Administrator AT&T Mobility eCommerce August 2010 to October 2015 • Maintain and support tools to support a large java-based eCommerce website running Apache 2.0 / Weblogic 10 / ATG Commerce / Solaris 10 and Red Hat mixed server environment.  • Build Weblogic application servers, and Apache servers for production, final stage, performance, test and various non-production environments.  • Run major software releases requiring balancing traffic between 3 datacenters. Work with Release Analyst/Release management team, project managers, code testers in a coordinated effort to push new production software code deployments  • Configure and set-up F5 and A10 load balancers  • Monitor and analyze Keynote and Sitescope/Nagios alerting on AT&T eCommerce website to ensure maximum uptime and to enhance the customer experience.  • Modify and create shell scripts in Unix Bash, Python, and Perl to administer and maintain over 100 application and web servers in clustered nodes. Senior Systems Software Developer Analyst University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX May 2000 to August 2010 Student Information Systems and Budget Office; Systems Aanalyst: MISS Department at JJ Pickle Research Center / Applied Research Laboratory  • Involved in all aspects of SDLC (Requirements gathering, writing scope documents, designing database files, coding backend processes, designing and coding web front end using WebAgent2, Python/Django, Javascript, JQuery, Angular 2.0)  • Served as lead analyst for the University of Texas at Austin's registration system: support, maintain, enhance, and develop services to mission critical registration application supporting 50,000+ users.  • Lead analyst for IT support of Veterans Affairs area for the Registrar's Office: provide datasets and reports, maintain online applications to facilitate the official reporting of VA student data to the Department of Veteran Affairs.  • Designed, developed, and implemented web portal for students and administrative users: CLIPS (Class Information Pages).  • Designed, developed, and implemented web-based browser independent voting system for the Dean of Students Office's Student Government organization, which increased voter participation by over %100 and continues to draw 25% of the student population.  • Supervised and mentored several junior Registrar IT members on successful high profile key departmental initiatives: Prerequisite checking, Waitlisting, Recreational Sports.  • Co-led large SSN remediation effort for the Budget Department and completed 6 months ahead of schedule; involving file modifications, library migrations, coordinating and conducting user group testing.  • Assisted in WebFocus report conversion, converting and fixing reports while learning the WebFocus language and providing deliverables ahead of schedule  • Maintained several Oracle Forms administrative applications Education Bachelor's in Latin University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX 1990 to 1996 Bachelor's in English University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX 1990 to 1995 Skills Software development, System Administraton, System Engineering, Unix, Solaris, RedHat, Ubuntu, OSX, Windows, Javascript, jQuery, Bash scripting, Perl, Python, Natural/ADABAS, JCL, f5 load balancer, A10 load balancer, Sitescope, Keynote, git, SVN, Javascript, MYSQL, Git, CSS, HTML 5 Additional Information Skills Summary  18 years of professional IT experience in software development and production development operations support. 15 years of experience in system analysis, design and programming for the University of Texas at Austin in academic, financial, and administrative areas with a strong background in all aspects of software lifecycle. Experience in major programming languages, operating hardware and software. 5 years of experience as a System Engineer for production applications and operations support of AT&T Mobility's eCommerce website.    Skills  Hardware  IBM 3090, MVS Operating System/JES2, Windows XP, Apple OSX, Unix - Certified Solaris 7 System Administrator, Red Hat Linux x86  Programming Languages  NATURAL/ADABAS (MVS mainframe), Python, JCL, Perl, PL/SQL, Oracle Forms, WebFocus, SAS, Java, Bash, Perl  Web scripting/authoring  Webagent, Webagent 2, Django/Python, PHP, Javascript, jQuery, XML, XSL, XHTML, CSS, Angular 2.0  Tools  Git, svn, Jenkins  Sitescope, Nagios