Systems and Software Architect Systems and <span class="hl">Software</span> Architect Systems and Software Architect - Mining Safety + Health Lakewood, CO To design and build web systems that reliably fulfill e-business strategies and create highly enjoyable user experiences. Work Experience Systems and Software Architect Mining Safety + Health - Lakewood, CO September 2017 to Present • Serving as systems and software architect to modernize the Mining Safety and Health Administration's IT systems:  - Modernizing the Web Portal from its original monolithic design to a new system that is multi-tiered and uses service-oriented design:  From: Legacy Struts, JSP, Tag Libraries, Hibernate, J2EE, and Container Managed Persistence  To: Modern HTML5, CSS3, Angular, and Microservices over REST Json    - Redesigning large data persistence operations into a service-oriented architecture that utilizes microservices over REST Json.  - Analyzing existing frameworks and code to guide the code development in the new modernized systems.    • Serving as architect over modernizing the current manual DevOps tasks into newer, automated DevOps operating  procedures and toolsets, based on these technologies:  - GIT source controls  - ANT / Maven builds  - Jenkins build + deploy server  - Sharepath and AppDynamics application performance monitoring  - Splunk log mining.    • Serving as frontend user interface and user experience designer and code developer  - Prototyping and producing UI/UX designs in Photoshop and HTML5/CSS3 for reviews and approvals  - Utilizing Google material design in modernizing the look, feel, and behavior of the UI/UX  - Converting UI/UX designs into final working HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, and Angular web components    • Serving as an additional code developer for legacy Mining Safety and Health IT systems to:  - Fix production bugs and defects  - Migrate the legacy application from WebLogic 12.1.2.2 to 12.2.1.3 while upgrading its Struts, Tiles, and J2EE frameworks.  - Write new ANT build scripts to overcome upgrade issues and prepare for automated builds using Jenkins    1 Internet Software Developer and Architect Level3 Communications - Broomfield, CO January 1999 to Present Served as primary application architect, team lead, and code developer for over 18 years on Level 3’s B2B Extranet Portals: The Level 3 Online Customer Service Center and the MyLevel3 Portal. These portal sites have been live since 1/1999 and have been instrumental in serving Level 3’s customer service needs for all of Level3’s internal and external users. They’ve allowed internal and external customers to create trouble tickets, view provisioned services, order services, and perform a wide array of other network activities remotely and securely over the internet.    These portal sites have been live since 1/1999 and have been  instrumental in serving Level 3's customer service needs for all of Level3's internal and external users. They've allowed internal and external customers to create trouble tickets, view provisioned services, order services, and perform a wide array of other network  activities remotely and securely over the internet.    • Possess 10+ years of solid Adobe Photoshop and GUI design skills for producing professional page layouts and internet graphics.    • Possess 16+ years of solid expertise in Java and J2EE architecture and app-server technologies.    • Possess 16+ years of solid expertise implementing BEA WebLogic Application Server and Portal Technologies using object-oriented  design principles: Java, J2EE, EJBs, Portlets, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JSPs, XML, and XSLT.    • Continuously served as point-of-contact and coordinator for the various business and product owner groups.    • Continuously performed preliminary project management and planning duties by providing management with the required tasks, estimates for levels of effort, and the projected milestone timelines based upon the given e-business strategies and requirements.    • Coordinated localization work and in-country reviews to deploy the extranet portals in 9 global locales.    • Established production infrastructure and escalation processes to support Level 3 contractual service level agreements.    • Developed and maintained new hire procedures and training materials for the continued mentoring of new team members. Software Developer and Analyst Gateway Computers - Lakewood, CO September 1998 to August 1999 Software Process Improvement lead responsible for developing processes that fulfill Level 2 key process areas of the SEI Capability  Maturity Model.  • Designed and developed internal web site for the Software Process Improvement efforts. This web site served as Gateway's Process  Asset Library.    • Developed system diagrams in Visio 5.0 for Gateway's computer ordering and production processes to visually depict the relationship of participants, activities, software, hardware, and databases.  • Performed Analyst responsibilities for the support of Gateway's value added reseller program. Helped draft and revise system  requirements and evaluate vendor products to support the program. Software Developer MCI Telecommunications Inc - Englewood, CO September 1997 to September 1998 Integral member of MCI's Customer Service Record team that designed and developed a web-based C++ application server to retrieve  customer records from local telephone companies such as Ameritech, Bell South, and Bell Atlantic.  • Utilized Java 1.1 to prototype the retrieval of customer records from Ameritech, Bell South, and Bell Atlantic.  • Developed the final CGI programs in C++ to retrieve customer records from the aforementioned phone companies and to dynamically  process and display the retrieved information.  • Designed and developed static and dynamic web pages for the server front-end by utilizing HTML, Javascript, and CGI.  • Installed and configured Netscape FastTrack Web Server 2.0 on Solaris 2.6 for the customer record site.  • Performed regular software builds and releases for quality assurance, testing, and production drops.  • Performed UNIX system admin work on the Solaris 2.6 operating system for DNS setup, license installations, and user account setups. Software Developer Information & Graphics Systems - Boulder, CO February 1996 to September 1997 • Served as development lead for designing, developing, & maintaining Graphical Information Systems (GIS) running on AutoCAD R12 for Bell South and Pacific Bell.  • Designed and developed GIS commercial applications for AutoCAD R12 utilizing C++, ADS, SQL+, MS Windows 3.1 libraries, MS  Windows 3.1 DDE, Oracle ODBC, and WISE installation scripts.  • Performed regular software builds and releases for quality assurance, testing, and production drops. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science and Graphic Art & Design University of Colorado at Boulder - Boulder, CO May 1995 Skills APPLICATION SERVER, FRONT-END, Git, JAVASCRIPT, SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT, HTML, Jquery, XML, SQL Additional Information Technical Expertise  • Front-End User Interface Design • Middle-Tier Application Server Development • Backend-Interface Development  - HTML5 + CSS3 - WebLogic 12 Java J2EE Server - Oracle 11g DB Schema Design  - Javascript - Tomcat 7 Web Server - Oracle 11gSQL Stored Procedures  - JQuery, Webcomponents - Java JDK 5 and 6 - MS SQL Server  - Graphic Design in - Struts MVC Framework - MongoDB Non-SQL Server  Adobe Photoshop - SpringBoot MVC Framework  - Java JSP and Portlets  - Java Messaging Services  - Java JDBC Framework  - Spring Hibernate DAO Framework  - Eclipse IDE & Spring STS IDE  - ClearCase, GIT Source Control  - MAKE, ANT, and Maven Code Build Tools  - DevOps: Splunk, Sharepath, AppDynamics    Internet and Software Development History