Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Citizant, Inc Reston, VA - More than 10 years of .Net experience with actively coding ASP.Net 2.0/4.0, MVC, C#, VB.Net projects.  - HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, XSLT, JQuery, AngularJS and CSS proficiency.  - More than 15 years of utilizing object-oriented principles in application design.  - Practical experience in the design and development of applications utilizing n-tier architecture.  - Expertise in .Net database access techniques with more than 17 years of database driven application development.  - Extensive work experience in data analysis, conversion, and migration authoring numerous non-trivial SQL queries; MS SQL Server with T-SQL, MS Visual FoxPro RDBMS.  - Solid math skills with scientific background. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Developer Citizant, Inc - Washington, DC February 2018 to Present ASP.NET 4.0 / 4.5, C#, HTML, RegEx, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, MS Excel, Entity framework with LINQ to SQL and MS SQL Server 2012 as a backend.  * Developed and maintained Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS), web application for the US Department of Transportation (DOT), facilitating the processing of DOT programs and projects by maintaining their work flow, financial support and statuses.  * Improved performance of Integrated Master Schedule (IMS), which lies at the core of ITS, primarily through optimization of the uploading process of a highly structured Excel file with the data from the DOT. Added thorough verification to this Excel data file prior to the upload.  * Developed and added several integral parts to IMS such as Program Level Status, Project Summary, Project Monthly Status with consolidated reports.  * Suggested and implemented numerous methods that increase integrity of the ITS data. Senior Software Developer VMD Systems Integrators, Inc - Reston, VA April 2016 to February 2018 ASP.NET 4.0 / 4.5, C#, VB.Net, HTML, RegEx, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, MS Excel and MS SQL Server 2012 as a backend.  * Developed and maintained web applications Medicare Care Choice Model (MCCM) and the Payment Error Management Eligibility Tracking Tool (PETT) for Medicare & Medicaid Services allowing states to submit and manage the data online, as well as create reports to analyze the effectiveness of the programs. Senior Software Developer Medical Science & Computing, Inc - Rockville, MD May 2012 to March 2016 National Institutes of Health Contractor)    ASP.NET 4.0, C#, HTML, RAD Telerik, RegEx, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, AngularJS, JSON, MS Excel and MS SQL Server 2008 as a backend.  * Designed, developed and maintained the Core Virology Laboratory Information Management System (CVLIMS) web application, which allowed the Vaccine Research Center staff to design and perform experiments, as well as store, manage, and process data.  * Authored all structures, relationships, types, views, functions and stored procedures of a large database improving the department's data governance and ease of data extraction for analysis.  * Created the Abstract Factory singleton in Data Access Layer (DAL) which provided Data Access Object (DAO) for communicating with database.  * Transferred legacy data for CVLIMS and other supporting projects into a new database using T-SQL.  * Optimized numerous data mining reports resulting in significant efficiency gains.  * Maintained legacy CVLIMS web application with C#, MVC 2.0 and Entity framework.  * Proposed to migrate CVLIMS project to AngularJS and Entity framework and produced sample web pages to illustrate the advantages of the new environment. Senior Software Engineer comScore Inc - Reston, VA June 2011 to May 2012 XSLT and AJAX technologies as part of the Enterprise Data Broker Serco Inc - Reston, VA July 2008 to June 2011 Reston, VA 07/2008-06/2011    ASP.NET 2.0-4.0, C#, VB.net, AJAX, XML, Excel, JavaScript, AJAX, MS SQL Server 2005-2008 as a backend, MS Word and Excel COM automation.  * Developed applications for the US Navy and Army using Model View Controller (MVC) framework, C#, VB.net, AJAX, XML, MS Excel, Entity framework, DAL with LINQ to SQL, and MS SQL Server 2005-2008 as a backend with Reporting Services and Full Text Search. Optimized code execution in deliverables to achieve customer satisfaction.  * Reengineered the Army Career and Alumni Program (ACAP) Resources website to move from ColdFusion to .Net 4.0 MVC 2 C# 4.0. The project multitier design included Business tier with Entity framework, DAL with LINQ to SQL, and MS SQL Server 2008 as a backend.  * Designed and developed the Resource Allocation Management (RAM) and Support Agreement Data Application (SADA) web applications which replaces legacy applications written in ColdFusion. Wrote T-SQL scripts to convert all legacy data on customer servers.  * Solved a performance issue for the Navy Sailor Inventory Model simulation by proposing and implementing a new backend memory saving algorithm, resulting in a 10-fold speedup.  * Researched and developed a web solution for retrieving sections of InfoPath forms using Web Services, XML/XSLT and AJAX technologies as part of the Enterprise Data Broker (EDB) web project.  * Created a complex robust desktop C# application for searching different kinds of data patterns, exploiting regular expression engines and MS Word and Excel COM automations. The main purpose was to scan network drivers with hundreds of gigabytes for security violations.    Senior Software Developer / Lead Engineer-Programmer  Geldman Computer Systems Inc., Toronto, Canada Prior to 2008  Progress Inc., Moscow, Russia    * Led a team of programmers to develop software packages for manufacturing companies addressing their inventory tracking, billing, accounting, and internal reporting needs. The software was developed using DOS FoxPro 2.0-2.6, MS Visual FoxPro 7 - 9, Novell NetWare 2.15 - 6.00, MS SQL Server, Assembler Intel 808x, Windows API, IIS (ISAPI), SOAP, ASP.Net 2.0, C#, HTML, JavaScript, Tomcat (CGI), and West-Wind Web Technology.  * Led several engineering and scientific projects based on Mainframe IBM 370, Assembler IBM 370, JCL, XEDIT, FORTRAN, C, PL/1, and ADABAS. Senior Software Developer Several Companies 2008 to 2008 ASP.NET 2.0 - 4.0, C#, XML, RegEx, Excel, JavaScript, AJAX, MS SQL Server 2005 - 2008.  * Supported a large and complex system with numerous modules (such as Console, WinForms, and web applications) which processed hundreds of gigabytes of data daily. Ensured smooth performance through algorithm and code optimization as well as implementation of new modules.  * Optimized and redesigned data library resulting in an average of 80% increase in effectiveness of data extraction.  * Automated numerous manual tasks reducing maintenance effort and risk of errors.  Senior Software Developer Education Ph.D. in Physics and Mathematics in Physics and Mathematics Moscow Aviation University Masters in Mathematics and Computer Science in Mathematics and Computer Science Moscow Aviation University