InLine Analytics Software Systems Developer InLine Analytics <span class="hl">Software</span> Systems <span class="hl">Developer</span> InLine Analytics Software Systems Developer Lake Oswego, OR Create cutting edge software applications that open new business avenues to increase sales and increase worker productivity using all the latest software and hardware technologies. Work Experience InLine Analytics Software Systems Developer Intel March 2014 to March 2019 Created five Windows applications. My most recent application is a user  interface to a machine learning (ML) library, that is used to create ML  models. Some of my applications have interactive graphs of measurements  chosen by the user. When the points are selected, the images from which the measurements were made are displayed and the location of the  measurement area is highlighted. The applications were created using  Windows Presentation Foundation 4.5, Windows Communication Foundation for a service/client architecture, ModelViewViewModel, .NET 4.6, C# 6.0, Visual Studio 2017, GDI, SQL, multi-threading, parallel processing, file transfer protocol (FTP). Also application engineer for Adaptive Manufacturing that runs processes in the fab and Automatic Defect Classification. Yield owner Intel April 2012 to February 2014 Eliminate defects in a segment of the process for the  14nm product. Research Scientist Harvard-MIT Health Science and Technology - Cambridge, MA June 2009 to March 2011 Brigham & Women's Hospital, Center for Biomedical Engineering  Cell culture and characterization, Tissue Engineering, Biomaterials and Microfluidics Software Developer Alcon Laboratories - Fort Worth, TX October 1990 to May 1998 Created electronic insurance claim and payment software to create and transmit claims and receive electronic payments in all 50 states using C++ object orientated programming.  Also skilled in assembly code, Pascal, LISP, Fortran and  COBOL Systems Developer IBM - Poughkeepsie, NY June 1988 to August 1990 Created parts of the MVS operating system. Education Ph.D. in Electrical & Computer Engineering in Electrical & Computer Engineering University of Texas-Austin - Austin, TX January 2001 to May 2009 M.S. in Electrical & Computer Engineering in Electrical & Computer Engineering Texas A&M University - College Station, TX September 1998 to December 2000 Electrical & Computer Engineering Student University of Texas-Arlington - Arlington, TX September 1994 to August 1998 B.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Missouri - Rolla, MO May 1988 Skills ASP, Git, CSS, HTML 5, Javascript, My current programming skills are in Windows Presentation Foundation 4.5, Windows Communication Foundation for a service/client architecture, ModelViewViewModel, .NET 4.6, C# 6.0, Visual Studio 2017, GDI, SQL, multi-threading, parallel processing, file transfer protocol (FTP) and Team Foundation Server, PowerShell, Python, JavaScript, Object Orientated JavaScript, ASP.NET Core MVC 2, Restful Web Services with ASP.NET Core 2 in C#, Angular 7, React 16, Entity Framework Core 2, VS Code, Git and GitHub.