Senior .Net Developer Senior .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior .Net Developer - Swisslog Charlotte, NC • With 9 years of experience in System Analysis, Design, Development, debugging, testing and implementation of project as Windows Application and Web applications.  • Strong Expertise in design and modeling of Architecture using UML and Database Entity Relational.  • Great expertise in development of applications using .NET Framework, for Windows Applications, Web Applications and Class Libraries, using Best Practices, and developing and implementing Web Services, all using C# and/or VB.NET as every project required, Great expertise in implementing solutions using LINQ and Entity Framework.  • Outstanding expertise in all phases of software development life cycle, Insightful experience in project planning, gathering requirements, documentation in high and low level, generation of case use, designing and modeling data base objects and relations, designing application models using UML, formulation of deployment strategy and creation of software products as per client requirements.  • Good experience in the developing, implementation and consumption of Web Services, WCF using ADO.NET as component to generate the connection to the database.  • Great knowledge in develop, consumption and reference of multi-tier application.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and Server Oriented Application (SOA)  • Experience in .Net AJAX and Ajax Tool Kit Controls, JSON, JavaScript and JQuery and .Net Resource Files.  • Experience in developing functionality using XML, XSL, XSLT, and XSD.  • Designed Front End and developed CSS, CSS3 files as required.  • Experience in Model View Controller, MVVM Pattern.  • Strong experience in Microsoft SQL Server developing objects like Tables, Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers, and Functions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior .Net Developer Swisslog - Newport News, VA August 2016 to Present Swisslog is a warehouse management company. It works for clients that deal with logistics. It delivers end to end product, also provides support after delivery. The warehouse maintenance is done by robots which are designed by Swiss log itself. We work on designing the software that should be embedded in to the robots for their functioning.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in gathering the requirements (BRD, SRS), analysis, design (TDD), development, testing and deployment for enhancements.  • Designed UI using the HTML 5.0, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery 2.1.1, Knockout JS and Bootstrap.  • Used MVC framework to reduce the complexity and to get control over the behavior of the application.  • Involved in writing complex SQL queries and stored procedures, accessed SQL database using ADO.NET.  • Worked on Kendo UI Controls to support HTML5 Controls in all the browsers.  • Worked with XML Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI) and Service Oriented Architecture [SOA] concepts using .NET Framework.  • Developed user interface screens using web forms and win forms.  • Used LINQ to Entities, LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML and LINQ to Objects for retrieving the data proficiently.  • Transformed XML files into specified business format (PDF, MS-Word) using XSLT.  • Extensive use of Web Services, SOAP, XML, XSL to expose the reports to facilitate information sharing.  • All data transfers (requests/ retrievals), XML Schemas and XML namespaces transformation were performed using XSLT.  • Used jQuery to validate user controls and web forms.  • Work with MVC controllers to integrate with WCF and addressed the integration issues.  • Created rich, easy-to-use and highly interactive UI using ASP.NET, AJAX controls HTML, CSS and Master Pages.  • Developed complex grids using Telerik /Kendo UI Controls.  • Developed test-driven development (TDD) strategy guiding use of the NUnit testing framework.  • Created Content Pages, User Controls, Web Forms and HTML Pages for different banking services and modules using ASP.NET, XHTML and C#.  • Dynamically generated dropdown lists using jQuery UI and Angular JS.  • Responsible for designing the ASP.NET application authentication using the .NET Framework, Model View Controller (MVC) and IIS security models.  • Used Entity Framework for working with Relational data and LINQ for updating the data.  • Used Server side Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) techniques to improve performance.  • Incorporated different WPF controls and Dev Express controls. Worked on validation and converters in WPF.  • Developed Mocks in WPF for unit testing the background services, service layer and domain layer.  • Implemented Multithreading Concepts to improve the application Performance.  • Developed ASP.NET MVC applications using Data First Approach in Entity Framework and UI in Razor View Engine.  • Worked as a part of team for SharePoint Development  • Consuming and Developing Windows Communication Foundation services (WCF).  • Designing and developing rich application for Web (ASPX/Silverlight) and Windows (WPF).  • Developed and Customized Several List View and Data view controls to provide access to corporate data.  • Developed Client and server side validations for the pages in JavaScript.  • Used ASP.NET navigation system for top and left navigation menus with site maps.  • Used Web Services for online transactions using C#.  Environment: Microsoft .Net Framework 4.0, C#, ASP.NET, MVC 5.0, Visual Studio 2012/2015, Web Services, Windows Services, MS-SQL Server 2012, WPF, XML, XSLT, XHTML, Kendo UI, JQuery, Angular JS, Entity Framework, CSS, Silverlight, JavaScript. Baker Hill Carmel, IN November 2015 to July 2016 Software Developer Lead Analyst and Software Developer Bank of the west, CA May 2014 to October 2015 Worked in a project to generate a Calculation Engine for the Actuarial team, which was made intended to automatize the entry calculation process of the financial found of reserve needed by the client. Including from the data entry from distinct sources, with a huge amount of data to process, this project solved a big time consuming process that relieves a problem in the time of response to get the financial information to manage this critical data.    Responsibility  • Fully involved in all the process of the Software Development Life Cycle in all projects, interacted with final users at an administrative level, gathering requirements, analyzing and understanding the business rules needed, generating proposes and developing solution.  • In charge of a team of 3 in a Leader/Analyst/ Developer Role  • Worked in Agile environment to compete the project as per client requirement with weekly meetings with the general manager to check the advance and the doubts in the requirements.  • Creation of a 3-Tier solution to assurance the performance of the application as a decoupled entity.  • Creation of design, model and prototype of the whole Web Applications.  • Creation of all the Front End environment, using JavaScript, Master Page, Custom Controls and AJAX.  • Creation of all logic to assure the communication to assure the interaction between Databases using DTS to work as Engine to make the orchestration to assure the calculations required in the project.  • In charge of the modeling, design and relational structure of the database.  • Creation of all database objects including Tables, Store Procedures, Triggers, Relations, Indexes and Views, also objects for Data Binding and Data Management with consistent access using ADO.NET accessed from the Data Layer.  • In charge of the whole implementation process, creating.NET builds, Microsoft SQL Scripts and making sure the builds are migrated all the way up to the Production Environment.  Environment: .NET Framework 3.5, VS 2008, ASP.NET, C#, JavaScript, T-SQL, SQL Server 2005, MySQL, Tortoise SVN A trusted leader The Riverside Company 2015 to 2015 A trusted leader in financial technology, our innovative solution streamlines origination and portfolio management for business, consumer direct and indirect lending, while our award-winning business intelligence tools mitigate risk and generate growth-all through a single, integrated platform. In 2015, Baker Hill was acquired by a $4.6 billion global private equity firm, The Riverside Company. With this acquisition came an aggressive commitment to continuous innovation to develop world-class solutions that help drive more profitable relationships for our clients. We provide Loan originating software to various banks which is cloud based.    Responsibility  • As Agile team member, we were responsible for Product backlogs, Story grooming sessions, releasing planning, Spring planning, stand ups, Retrospective meetings and demos.  • Planning the development for sprint planning and task creation and task assignment.  • Experience working in agile development environment and Test Driven development.  • Experience with Cloud based Loan Origination web application.  • Experience with HTC web UI controls.  • Worked with MTC Integrity source control.  • Used Trello for Story/task tracking.  • Worked with SAP to deal with business objects.  • Used SSIS to created packages for reporting database.  • Used JavaScript for client side scripting and validation.  • Used SQL server 2014 as backend database and worked on Functions, Stored procedures and views.  • Worked with DevExpress to integrate HTML editor in to the application.  • Worked with HMDA data to make them reportable in case of mortgage loan to Federal Reserve board.  • Used Cruise Control for automation build and deploy.  Environment: ASP.Net 4.6, SQL server 2014, JavaScript, DevExpress, JQuery, C#, HTC controls, Visual studio 2012/2017, IIS, Azure, C#, Windows 10, MKS, Trello, Cruise Control, SAP Analyst / .Net Developer Rios Tires, Mc - Allen, TX May 2013 to April 2014 Worked in a project to develop an ERP for the administration and managing of assets, buy in, sells and inventory, with a principal interface for the POS.The application provides functionality to find in system and in a web vendor the models, stock and price of the items. Also have an interface to take advantage to the tracking of the purchase of new stock. The application works in a client-server environment in a multi store shared ambient.    Responsibility  • Responsible for all the life cycle from the proposal to the deployment and capacitation to final users.  • In charge of gather and negotiate the final user look and feel and the scope of the whole project.  • Fully involved in all the process of the Software Development Life Cycle, interacted with final users in all levels, from manager, stocker, seller and finishing with the cashier, gathering requirements, analyzing and understanding the business rules needed, generating proposes and developing solution.  • Creation of a whole new Windows application using 3-Tier, Entity Framework, LINQ, Client-Server, and Microsoft SQL as Data Base, using Microsoft .NET Framework 3.5 and C# as a primary language.  • Worked in solo, with full interaction with the general manager of the store, attending in site meetings and field requirements gathering, giving estimations and completing the work in the according deadlines.  • Creation of Windows Forms Application and Auth controls, also design, modeling, prototype and develop of all Front End and Backend modules, using ADO.NET communication  • Creation all the communication to the data layer using Entity Framework, Followed Object Oriented Programming.  • Creation of crystal reports for the print out vouchers and modules and implemented Bar Code scanner.  • Used Tortoise SVN as repository  Environment: Microsoft .NET Framework 3.5, Windows Forms, Visual Studio 2008, C#, Crystal Reports, ADO.NET, HTML, SQL Server 2005, Web services, Tortoise SVN, DevExpress Controls. Software Developer Cognizant June 2011 to June 2013 Worked in 2 projects related, the main benefit was the exposing of financial information to theinvestors, who track the stock market changes around the market products that the financial service holds. Solving requirements to gather stock information, generation the calculations to projection and regression of the variation in the market and attending vendors' requirements. Also a generation of complex algorithms to predict indicators in the market.    Responsibility  • Involved in all the process of the Software Development Life Cycle in all projects, interacted with final users at an administrative level, gathering requirements, analyzing and understanding the business rules needed, generating proposes and developing solutions.  • Creation of functionality and validations using JavaScript in the client side, interacting with Macromedia Flash.  • Creation of reports to display formats and dynamic documents and of web pages using web forms implementing an Object Oriented Approach interacting with the data layer via ADO.NET.  • Creation, manage and optimization of stored procedures, triggers and views, also create of tables, functions, constraints and added indexes as and when required to assure the performance.  • Fully involved in debugging and fixing bugs rigorously.  • Used the Visual Studio 2003 development tool, used for developing the ASP.NET dynamic web pages.  • Performed Data analysis, Data integration and Data manipulations in SQL Server.  • Worked on data processing and looked into the related issues, supported in troubleshooting the issues of an application.  Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2010, IIS, ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, AJAX, XML, XSL, XSLT, IIS, SQL Server 2008, SSRS, Windows Forms, Macromedia Flash. Software Developer JP Morgan Chase - Lewisville, TX April 2009 to June 2011 JPMorgan Chase & Co. is a multinational banking and financial services holding company headquartered in New York City. The J.P. Morgan brand, historically known as Morgan, is used by the investment banking, asset management, private banking, private wealth management, and treasury & securities services divisions.    Responsibility  • Maintained good level of communication in team and involved in complete software development life cycle.  • Maintained a consistent look and feel across all of the pages within MVC application by Razor layout.  • Worked on MVC Map Routes to create and register routes. Also implemented MVC URL validation to validate the URL based on regular expressions.  • Implemented Web Authentication in MVC using Authorize keyword for the controllers and actions.  • Extensively worked on Data Annotations to perform the validations on HTML user controls.  • Extensively used Java script, and JQuery plugins for various client-side scenarios and for also validations.  • Extensively used CSS for the proper alignment across multiple browsers  • Created WebAPI services and implemented them to evoke all the communications between the client and the server using JSON.  • Implemented WCF Web services for publishing and consuming data successfully.  • Implemented exception blocking, tracing and logging mechanism using the Enterprise Library5.0.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, functions, views and Stored Procedures using SQL Server for backend development.  • Responsible for maintaining versions of source code using TFS.  • Involved in deployment and troubleshooting the production issues during deployment and on regular basis.  Environment: Windows Server, IIS 7 C#.net, MVC ASP.NET, Entity Framework, ADO.NET, LINQ, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, Web Services, WCF, Microsoft Visual Studio 2013, SQL 2008, SSRS, Microsoft TFS. Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (9 years), C# (9 years), MS SQL SERVER (9 years), SQL (9 years), SQL SERVER (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL:    Operating Systems Windows 2000/ XP, Windows Vista, Windows7, Windows8, Windows10  GUI Tools  Visual Basic Studio 6, Embarcadero E/R, Enterprise Architect  MS Visual Studio.NET 2003/2005/2008/2013, Microsoft SQL Server  SQL Developer for Oracle    Languages Action Script, Visual Basic for Applications, FoxPro, C#, VB.Net, TSQL, PL/SQL, C, C++, ZebraPL  Web & Internet Technologies  ASP.NET, AJAX, MVC, JavaScript, JScript, VBScript, ASP 3.0  HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, DHTML, XML, XAML, XSLT, XPATH, WSDL  Web Services, Sockets, AngularJS, Bootstrap, WCF    Databases Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, Microsoft Access, MySQL, Informix, Progress, Oracle 9  Methodologies UML, OOP, Entity Framework, LinQ, WCF  Scripting Languages AngularJS, Bootstrap, Java Script, JScript, VB Script, ZebraPL  Web Servers IIS 5.0/6.0/7.0  Technologies .NET Framework 1.1/2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, N-Tier Architecture  Reporting and Testing Microsoft SQL Reporting Services  Protocols HTTP, SOAP, REST, UDDI  Design Patterns Abstract Factory, Singleton, Observer, Composite, Strategy, State, Proxy  Tools  Microsoft Visual Studio Microsoft SQL Server, Crystal Reports, Team, Foundation Server, Visual Source Safe, Tortoise SVN, DevExpress, Controls, Telerik Controls, Embarcadero E/R Studio, Enterprise Architect, Visual FoxPro, Visual Studio 6, Progress (Graphic Interface), Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Project