Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Home Depot Bethesda, MD Senior Developer with more than 8+ years of progressive accomplishments in user interface design and development, product design, workflow analysis, requirements and task analysis, and usability testing. Current focus on the front-end, though I have full-stack experience as well.    ? Extensive experience working with Javascript Frameworks like Angular.JS, Node.JS, React.JS, Ext.JS.  ? Contributed to all levels of the user experience and in all phases of the product development lifecycle, from defining a product's overall architecture and structure, to iterating, specifying, and polishing the interaction details for specific features.  ? Strong knowledge in Bootstrap.JS and Responsive Web design.  ? Skilled in creating Web Applications, User Interfaces and Layouts with HTML, CSS3, XHTML, DHTML, SAML, jQuery, XAML and Javascript using W3C standards.  ? Proficient in developing web pages with HTML5/CSS3 from PSD template.  ? Adept in Product prototyping, mockups, demos and Web browser compatibility issues.  ? Strong in design and development of Webservices using WSDL, SOAP.  ? Excellent with EJB, XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD and DOM.  ? Experience in developing various UI widgets using jQuery, worked with jQuery library.  ? Involved in designing UI patterns and developing applications with the help of Eclipse, Sublime text, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Dreamweaver.  ? Specialized in RDBMS design using normalization techniques and expertise in using SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  ? Experience in various software developments IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse.  ? Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Home Depot - Bethesda, MD March 2014 to Present This Project is to develop application which helps in creating E-notices if there is any disciplinary violation instead of manually maintaining notices. These notices can be maintained easily using this application. These notices can be produced as evidence to the court in case of any legal issues.    Responsibilities:  ? Used AJAX, Java script and GWT to create interactive user interface.  ? Re-architected, and enhanced an existing Angular.JS application to follow strict MVVM/MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance, 40% code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spin up, enhanced performance and offline with client caching.  ? Used Javascript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  ? Designed and developed application screens using Swing, HTML, jQuery, JSP, Node.JS, Ext JS, Angular.JS, Can.JS and CSS.  ? Created Node.JS middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework.  ? Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and Javascript.  ? Developed internal application using Angular.JS and Node.JS connecting to Oracle on the backend.  ? Used Dojo for the client side development and validations.  ? Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, Javascript, CSS and jQuery.  ? Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, Javascript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  ? Creation of REST Web Services framework for the management of data using Apache CXF.  ? Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, Ext JS and jQuery.  ? Implemented the database connectivity using JDBC with Oracle Database as backend.  ? Created various UI components for different web pages using HTML, Javascript, and Ext JS.  ? Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence.  ? Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, Javascript, CSS and jQuery.  ? Designed and developed Servlets and JSP pages for authentication.  ? Strong implementation in handling Ext.JS Ajax Request and Response using Java Spring and JSON.  ? Working with Responsive Web design using Bootstrap.JS.  ? Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Angular.JS, Backbone.JS, Ember.JS, and Celery.  ? Built on Node.JS with Express.JS, Backbone.JS, Handlebars and PhoneGap.  ? Development for both backend and front end applications by using PHP.  ? Developed AJAX scripting to process server side JSP scripting.  ? Created Ext JS custom UI components and implemented UI MVC framework.  ? Developed JSPs, Struts Actions and Action Forms, Tiles layouts and DB2 SQLs.  ? Fetched data from mongo DB using Mongoose/ monk of Node.JS.  ? Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  ? Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in Javascript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.  ? Developed HTML5 Mobile application with HTML5, Java Script, jQuery, JSON and RESTful web service.  ? Developed XSD for validation of XML request coming in from Web Service.  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.    Technologies: Angular.JS, Ext.JS, Node.JS, Javascript, Backbone.JS, jQuery, Bootstrap.JS, JSP, HTML, CSS, WordPress, Ajax, jQuery, GWT, SVN, MongoDB, Coherence, JBOSS, Eclipse, Log4j, HTML5, DB2, CRUD, SQL, Struts, JSF, DOJO, Apache CXF, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle, Maven, Oracle ECM, JIRA, PL/ SQL, SOAP, Servlet, ILOG, JRules, EJB, Maven, XML, Itext, Jasper report Sr. UI Developer Cisco - Bethesda, MD September 2012 to February 2014 Cisco IT's eStore replaces multiple service request systems with a unified service catalog for ordering any type of IT service. It provides a unified self-service IT portal for end users to order any type of IT service from a catalog of standard options. Furthermore, the catalog can help to streamline and automate provisioning through its integration with Cisco Process Orchestrator. With this IT process automation system in place, requests for IT services, applications and infrastructure can be processed in minutes instead of hours or days with greater transparency and control for end users as well as for IT. Involved in UI development.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed UI for the application's structure, navigation, appearance, interaction conventions, and business features. Created diagrams, wireframes, and HTML/CSS prototypes. Wrote use cases, UI specifications and a UI Style Guide.  ? Edited CSS and HTML/XML source code to customize product appearance to match customer web sites.  ? Created a demo website running on a Node.JS, using the Express framework, Jade, and Backbone.JS with Mustache.JS for front end MVC/ templating.  ? Implemented a Node.JS server to manage authentication.  ? Developed web pages using Ext JS, Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components.  ? Used MVC architecture of Ext JS Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  ? Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content. Management System using Backbone.JS and jQuery.  ? Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (jQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Developed an Angular.JS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows.  ? Leveraged angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  ? Developed a Web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging.  ? Used Javascript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  ? Designed and implementing a Node.JS based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend.  ? Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular.JS.  ? Designed and developed carrier selection and product selection web pages using HTML, Struts, Servlets and Javascript.  ? Developed the Portlet Web Interface using Ajax, JSF.  ? Defined Ext.JS (UI Layer) Architecture and Design screen mock-up using Ext.JS and Sencha Architecte.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  ? Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes that created Pom.xml files.  ? Developed Javascript based components using Ext JS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  ? Used Javascript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  ? Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (jQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Architected mainframe modernization solutions using SOA/web services, middleware integration technologies and ESB based on Java/J2EE.  ? Built code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  ? Used Ext JS, Javascript for validating client-side validations.  ? Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI and technologies used were Backbone.JS, Can.JS, and jQuery.  ? Extensively used the DOJO Toolkit to control and provide the rich functionality to GUI.  ? Integrated Bootstrap.JS into several applications for speeding up Javascript development.  Technologies: Javascript, HTML5, Coherence, WebLogic, Backbone.JS, Apache CXF, Angular.JS, Node.JS, REST, Ant, Hibernate, MongoDB, Bootstrap.JS, STRUTS, JSP, CSS3, AJAX, Subversion (SVN), Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, JSTL, Oracle, Dojo, CRUD, SQL, WordPress, EJB, PL/ SQL, Eclipse, SOA, Jasper Report, ILOG Itext, Jira, Web 2.0, Servlet, Maven Sr. Front End Developer IBM - Armonk, NY September 2010 to August 2012 Digital Supply Chain project was aimed at transforming Univision's media operations from a traditional broadcast-centric model into an agile, cross platform digital media ecosystem, capable of supporting multiple, diverse models for delivery of media assets from content providers to content distributors and consumers. This integration Involve three end systems, Rights Logic system all the Schedules are created or updated through this an order is created in Xytech Media Pulse system this creates a service in Anvato System ESB processes all the flows and routes to the particular systems.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on a large-scale application that gives business users the ability to easily and quickly create advanced apps with a simple UI.  ? Developed Administration UI as SPA (Single Page Application) with Javascript, Angular.JS, Bootstrap.JS, jQuery, HTML5, and CSS.  ? Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, and Javascript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  ? Wrote unit tests and automated integration tests using Protractor.  ? Software is built as a web app on Node.JS with Backbone.JS. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade.  ? Consumed a RESTful API developed by the API team.  ? Worked on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  ? Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  ? Architected and implement REST api interfaces using Javascript and Node.JS.  ? Used Perl, PHP and MySQL to develop several web sites, SEO (search engine optimization) skills.  ? Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations.  ? Implemented in web development with help of DOJO to achieve one stop approach.  ? Wrote Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  ? Created and maintained Amazon EC2 instance that supports the company's project management site and Mercurial.  ? Developed responsive HTML, CSS2,jQuery and Javascript based theme with a fluid grids.  ? Implemented Selenium IDE with Javascript for Web apps.  ? Designed and developed components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML.  ? Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  ? Used JAXB to marshal and unmarshal Java objects to Communicate with the backend mainframe system.  ? Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using Flash, CSS, Adobe, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, and Javascript.  ? J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  ? Used JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  ? Developed client GUI modules using Swing, Java script and Flash.  ? Involved in Installation & Configuration of Cognos in distributed environments on Solaris.  ? Development/Deployment of jar files into ILOG Rule builder.  ? Designed, Implemented and Test Oracle ADF applications using JDeveloper.  ? Involved in the development of Services using Oracle BPM, WSDL and XSD.  ? Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe.  ? Troubleshot issues concerning Apache Tomcat during deployment.  ? Moved Application from Solaris to Linux RedHat for system benchmark.  ? Used Ruby on Rails for development with Backbone.JS.  ? Developed multiple web applications using WordPress, Drupal, Zend plugins.  Technologies: Java, Swing, WebSphere, Node.JS, Angular.JS, DB2, Netbeans, JBoss, Visual Source Safe, Selenium, Mercurial, Agile, UML, JSP, Servlet, ANT, XML, EMC Documentum, Jira, Swing, cognos, Ilog, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBMMQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, Wordpress, Drupal , .Net , ASP, C++, Mainframe, COBOL , PL/I , JCL, SQL , SAS VB , ASP Java Developer Wells Fargo Bank - San Francisco, CA March 2009 to August 2010 This project is involved in developing a mortgage application that can be accessed by various sales agents and it also involved in developing loan fulfillment once the loan is submitted by sales agents. Once the loan is submitted, depending on the credit, pricing will be applied to the loan and the process continues till loan approval and funds disbursement. In the process of loan approval a loan encounters milestones such as initial risk review, pre-approval etc.  Responsibilities:  ? Participated in all the stages of SDLC from requirements gathering to deployment of software.  ? Used MS Visio to come up with the required diagrams for the design part.  ? Developed and designed Interfaces using Swings.  ? Used Event Handlers to perform the required functionality of the events.  ? Implemented the statistics like UNIVARIATE, CORRELATION, REGRESSION etc using JAVA classes and methods.  ? Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML, Javascript, Ajax.  ? Involved in developing business components using POJO.  ? Installed, configured, deployed, Monitored and troubleshot WebLogic.  ? Involved in writing packages, stored procedures to retrieve/modify data in database.  ? Used MVC architecture, Business Delegate, Session facade, Data Access Object, Value Object and Singleton patterns  ? Involved in writing client side validations using Java Script.  ? The business logic was implemented in Processors and DAO layer accesses the back-end SQL Server database using Hibernate.  ? Created JUnit test cases to cover unit testing for the components.  ? Used Log4j for logging and handling defects of the application  Technologies: JAVA (Swings), JDBC, Web Service, Spring, Java, EJB, Java Script, Weblogic, Hibernate, Log4j, Ant script, TOAD, Putty, WinScp, Net Beans and Oracle Net Beans IDE, MS Visio, Oracle, JUnit. Software Developer Cigna - San Francisco, CA March 2008 to February 2009 Work on claim management system, this system provides health plan administrators with reports summarizing the information about the claimants, Service Plans etc. I have worked on maintenance releases as well as on development releases and improved the performance of the applications.    Responsibilities:  ? Understanding the Domain Knowledge for the Product, Requirements and Design Documents  ? Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance.  ? Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java.  ? Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code.  ? Worked on bug fixing.  ? Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQL Server database for Reports module.  ? Simulation was developed using C++.  ? Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  ? Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  ? Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, Java.  ? Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  ? Responsible for migrating Websphere server and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  ? J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  ? Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  ? Designed, implemented new website features and provided support and maintenance.    Technologies: Core Java, JSP, JUnit, Mercurial, Eclipse, .Net, JIRA, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, Visual Source Safe, Weblogic, Oracle , OGNL, C, C++, Linux, MS SQL Server, COBOL, FileAid, REXX, ISPF, Mainframe, CICS, IMS, VSAM, JCL Software Developer Infosys - IN March 2007 to February 2008 Finacle is a universal banking solution from Infosys. Finacle empowers banks to transform their business leveraging agile, new generation technologies. Our task is to come up with a web tool called FEAST which aids in estimating finacle software using Function Point Analysis.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed new system Automated Management System with Java and JSF.  ? Common Error message routines throughout the framework.  ? Implemented Log4j in application.  ? Implemented Ant Script in application.  ? Involved in reviewing the code and generating the Reports using PMD tool.  ? Automated XML parsing and generation of HTML files and uploading in FTP, integrated around six automated scheduler and Automated Application deployment.  ? Provide effort estimation for new enhancements requested and requirement break-up.  ? Handled client interaction in raising and resolving issues.  ? Participated in creation of high-level business analysis documents, detail design documents.  ? Automated XML downloads from distributed sites.    Technologies: Java, Javascript, Struts, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, WebSphere, DB2, and Rational Software Architecture on Windows and Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Java script (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), XML (8 years), CSS3 (4 years), Angular (3 years), React (4 years), Redux (2 years), JSON (4 years), MOBX (3 years), RXJS (2 years), Angular6 (Less than 1 year), TypeScript (3 years), Vue.JS (3 years), BootStrap (4 years), Node.JS (4 years), Express.JS (4 years), Hapi.JS (4 years), Koa.JS (3 years), Spring (4 years), Hibernate (4 years), Spring Boot (4 years), Spring MVC (3 years), Ember.JS (3 years), Wildfly (3 years), Jboss (4 years), JSON (4 years), Azure (3 years), Angular 2 (3 years), React Hoc (3 years), Spring Batch (3 years), Spring Security (3 years), Spring.Net (3 years), Spring Security (4 years), Microsrvices (3 years), Scala (4 years), Akka (4 years), Puppet (3 years), Chef (3 years), Ansible (3 years), As (3 years), MongoDB (3 years), Akka-http (2 years), Kafka (2 years), Python (2 years), Asp.net (3 years), Asp.Net (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Tools and Technologies: Angular.JS, Ext.JS, Node.JS, Backbone.JS, Bootstrap.JS, jQuery, Dojo, React.JS  Languages: Java, Flex, Javascript, PL/SQL, T-SQL, C# .Net, HTML, XML  Markup languages: HTML5, CSS3, XHTML and XML  Web Services: RESTful and SOAP.  Data-interchange format: JSON, XML  Change Management tools: SVN, GIT  App/Web Servers: IIS and Apache  Libraries: GSON, Jackson, KSOAp2-Android, Volley, Picasso, HTTP, Universal Image Loader  Methodologies: Agile/XP (Extreme Programming) and SCRUM  Operating Systems: Unix/Linux, Windows  Design Patterns: Observer, strategy, Iterator, Command, State, COR, Bridge, Factory, Visitor Composite