senior developer senior <span class="hl">developer</span> senior developer Plano, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience senior developer Signature Consulting - Client ExamSoft Addison April 2019 to June 2019 Modifying the Portal to accommodate new requirements. Using SpringBoot, Java, Groovy, Gradle, Postgresql, JUNIT, Docker. Working on AWS Lambda with Java using SAM Templates and clients.  Responsibilities - understand requirements, work on stories from jirra, clone project from GitHub, code using Java8, Groovy to implement the requirements, modify end-points and services, modify exixsting classes, write new classes, convert Groovy code to Java8, write Junit tests, write integration tests, fix code review comments, fix errors in the builds, write AWS lambda/API Gateway applications using Java8 and AWS SAM. senior developer in the Software TekSystems - Client SoftLayer Addison December 2018 to April 2019 as-a-Service platform. Responsibilities include upgrading the application to PHP7 from PHP5, fixing issues, adding new features, writing unit and integration tests and making sure the changes go through to the end of the Continuous Integration pipeline. Using PHP 5/7, Python, Pytest for integration tests, GIT, Oracle DB, Jira and Shell-Scripting.    Responsibilities - work on jirra stories to modify PHP python code as per the requirements, research issues related to the conversion to PHP7 from PHP5, modify python integration tests to accommodate new requirements. Real Time Analytics Developer TekSystems - Client AllState Irving TX - Irving, TX March 2018 to November 2018 Develop a Real Time Kafka streaming Anomaly detection application for the Vision team of the company to help Monitor various application endpoints for possible issues. Used Apache Kafka, with Java/Scala to develop the application. Deployed it in a Linux server environment connecting to a Kfka cluster.  Participate in the development of a Kafka Streaming application for the Total Loss scoring platform with Scala. Developed a Scala module to integrate client side certificates into the Java trust store to enable SSL communication between the Scala client and some web services. Modify the total scoring application to persist images to 2 Scality ( Amazon S3 compliant) endpoints. Work on developing integration tests for this application using shell scripts and python/scala.  Responsibilities - research and develop Kafka streaming application in Java/Scala, install and configure local kafka implementations for testing purpose, write Java8/Scala code to implement the requirements, write python code to test the kafka streaming implementation in an end-to-end fashion. Senior Developer TekSystems - Client SoftLayer Addison - Plano, TX October 2017 to February 2018 Enhance an Apache Spark application which uses Java for processing and Cassandra DB for persistence. Developing an application to receive Events on Kafka and process them using Java/Scala, Spring and Spring Integration and persist them into the Cassandra DB. Developed many algorithms and programs to clean huge amount of data looking for certain patterns using python and Scala. Senior Developer Pyramid Consulting - Client Southwest AirLines October 2016 to September 2017 Develop Micro-Services for different business areas namely Customers, Reservation Management, Shopping, Pricing and Funds Management using Java technologies. My responsibilities include, developing Java code for different stories groomed in each sprint using Java technologies, write Unit and Isolation tests, giving 100% coverage using JUNIT, MounteBank, Participate in design of the software. Using technologies namely Java, Guava, Apache CXF, Linux, Intellij, MounteBank, JUNIT. Senior Developer Apptricity Corporation June 2015 to July 2016 Worked on a project to rewrite the Expense Application of the company, which is used by several clients of the company. This was developed using Agile methodology with technologies which included Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring Rest, Angular, Java Script, MongoDB, Junit. My responsibilities included, developing several Spring Rest API end points for various type of clients, talking to MongoDB using Spring data to persist and retrieve data, write Junit integration tests, write modular Javascript code in the Angular framework and setup and monitor Continuous Integration pipe line using Jenkins, Gradle, Artifactory and several scripts, (shell scripts and python) written by me for deployment. Wrote selenium scripts in python to automate some browser based localized testing for my own use and some python scripts to monitor time critical data base changes to track production issues and fix them. Also worked on modifying existing application written primarily using Java and ZK. Senior Developer Aeroxchange - Irving, TX June 2013 to April 2015 Designed and developed parts of software applications for Airline clients to create and track repair orders, parts orders and other applications used by Air Line Industry. Used Java, JQuery, Struts, Oracle, SQL, PL-SQL Tomcat etc. Senior Developer Availity Inc - Richardson, TX December 2011 to May 2013 Customize the web application for clients and payers to meet the changing requirements and new regulatory health care reforms.    Develop Patient Centered Care program (a module) for WellPoint.  Develop a Demo application which is a replica of the existing production application using HTML, JavaScript, Jquery and CSS.    Work in an Agile Scrum Environment.  Used java, Apache Wicket, MVC, Spring MVC, Jsps, Spring, Hibernate, Html, Javascript, Ajax, CSS, Jquery, SQL Developer, Oracle,PL/SQL, Eclipse, Accurev, Jira, Agile, Scrum. Senior Developer CoreECS - Royal Bank Of Scotland - Stamford, CT August 2010 to November 2011 Develop a multi-threaded, Java Messaging Server Side application to process messages from an Enterprise Messaging bus, Argon (proprietary) and update the Static Data Ref. Data databases. Multi-threading is used so that high volumes can be handled. Receives XML messages, parses extract data using XPath and XQuery and saves the data to Sybase database tables. Develop SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers. Used JDBC to access the database.  Fix and enhance a messaging multi-threaded application to receive messages from the Client On-boarding tool and update the Static Data, Reference Data - data base. Use Multi-Threading, Tibco RV, Sybase, Solaris, Shell Scripts and Perl scripting. Enhance an Apache Axis web service to receive messages from the ASP dot Net application. Develop SQL Queries and Stored Procedures. Used JDBC to access the database.  Develop a module in Perl to load Collateral Mortgage Obligations (CMO) records from the Bloomberg Data Licensing database into the security Master Database.  Develop Sybase stored procedures and sql (Transact- Sql).  Develop shell scripts and Perl scripts to startup and monitor these applications.  Develop Perl scripts to do text file processing for various purposes. Developer Gateway Energy - Chesterfield, MO December 2009 to June 2010 Develop a coupon tracking system for their stores to keep track of the coupons collected from the customers and payments for those coupons from their vendors.  Responsible to gather requirements, develop the application in Java Web technologies and deploy the application to the servers.  Develop Apache Axis Web Services to enable the C# Winforms GUIs to connect to the server side.  Used Java, JSF, Tiles, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Spring JDBC, Hibernate, Tomcat and C# Winforms, MySql database. Senior Developer Core Education and Consulting Solutions, NJ January 2009 to October 2009 Develop many Core Java Swing and web user interfaces for a student performance monitoring system for schools, using JSPs, Spring MVC, CSS, HTML, DHTML.  Developed many server side components for this application using Java 1.5 Multi-threading and Collections. These serves as the application threads for the SWING front end to process long running processes.  Developed a web user interface using JSP, JavaScript, Spring, HTML, DHTML, CSS to show the status of the processed messages during a given time period.  Used Core Java, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, Multi-Threading, Collections Websphere and MQ. Senior Developer CoreECS - New York Life 51 Madison Ave - New York, NY August 2007 to August 2008 Developed new functionalities for the Long-Term care product of the company using Core Java, design patterns, Collections and Web technologies.  Designed, developed a lot of new java classes and integrated them with the existing framework.  Used Core Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, TOAD for Oracle, Oracle 10g, Tiles, Struts, HTML, JavaSCript, XML, DHTML, CSS, UNIX-AIX and SQL for this project. Senior Developer Mellon Investor Services - Jersey City, NJ March 2001 to July 2007 Develop Multi-threaded Middleware Java applications to process MQ Series messages from the Enterprise applications of the company.  Develop a Server Side Multi-Threaded Java application for Management Incentive Program for the UPS executives. Develop SQL Queries, XML Parsing using SAX and DOM Parsers and Transactional JDBC calls.  Developed a Web Application for the Middleware group to receive work requests from other departments and assign them to different engineers and track the progress (HelpDesk). Use Java, J2EE, Struts, Ajax, HTML, DHTML and CSS.  Enhanced and supported a Trading application using Java, C++ and C# winforms.  Manage the IBM WebSphere and MQ Series Middleware environment. Install, create clusters, troubleshoot, Enable Session Persistence, Develop Failover Strategies, write server side java code to test new features of the platforms, direct developers on new features and capabilities and help developers to resolve Middleware issues.  Develop Server side Java batch applications to process Excel Spreadsheets received from clients with employee information and update various data bases.  Enhance a Java Web application developed for Goldman Sachs using JSPs, Struts, MQ Series, JMS and Sybase. Develop and enhance SQL Queries. Developer IORMYX Inc - Herndon, VA November 2000 to February 2001 Develop a Library Management system using Swing, Weblogic Server 5.1, JAVA, JSP, Servlets and EJBs. Used Sybase database to store and retrieve data using JDBC. Senior Developer Advance Technologies, Plot - Kochi, Kerala May 2000 to October 2000 Design and develop a Website for Accessing catalogs and making on line orders for a Music Store (Hi-tech Music Store).Used WebLogic 5.0, JAVA, JSP, Servlets, SQL Server and EJBs.  Develop a wireless web application for the company, which gives general information about the company, over WAP-enabled cell phones. Use WAP, Tomcat, WML, JDBC and SQL Server. Developer DCM Data Systems - Delhi, Delhi November 1996 to May 2000 Develop General Ledger, Inventory and Accounts Payable modules for Omni Source Corporation, Fort Wayne, Indiana. This was a re-engineering project to convert their WANG Cobol PDMS application to Oracle, MF Cobol, C, C++ environment in a UNIX AIX platform. Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, C and C++ Server Side applications for these modules. Developed shell scripts to do data file processing. Develop interfaces to call C, C++ applications from MF Cobol User Interfaces.  Develop a web based time reporting application using Servlets, Oracle Database and Weblogic. Develop SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  Develop a JAVA SWING user interface for a device driver developed by the company to configure multiple SCSI drivers on a computer as primary, secondary etc. Develop native C++ functions which are called from the Java environment using JNI to provide information on the SCSI drivers. Integrate these C++ functions with Device Driver software written by a different group.  Enhanced a Main Frame application for Mellon Investor Service, Ridgefield Park using CICS, and DB2.  Develop C++ and Java applications for the Purchase, Sales, Inventory (PSI) department of Panasonic, Secaucus, NJ. Develop C++ applications to batch process Sales Forecast information from Oracle database. Develop a web interface to provide a view into the forecast and purchase order System. Used C++, Java, Servlets, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL and JDBC. Education Post Graduate Diploma in Computer Applications in Engineering NIIT Mysore India - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jndi, jquery, Rmi, Struts, Db2, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Apache, Apache spark, C++, Git, Html Additional Information Technical Competencies:  Languages Java 8, Scala, Go Lang, Python, PHP, Javascript Guava, C, C++ with OOPS, J2EE. Also some , Ruby, Perl.  J2EE/J2SDK Java 8 Lambdas, Streams, Optionals, Multi-threading, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Rest, Apache Axis SOAP, Apache CXF, JNDI  Big Data Apache Spark, Kafka, Cassandra, Java, Python, Kafka Streaming, Scala.  Technologies Java8, Scala, Golang, Java Script, Angular, HTML, XML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, XQuery, JSON, RMI, Maven, Ant,GIT, Apache Wicket, MounteBank.  Databases/RDBMS Oracle8, DB2, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL Server, MongoDB, Cassandra, PostGresql.  Tools IntelliJ, Eclipse, Robo Mongo, SQL Developer, Datastax Dev Center for Cassandra.  Frameworks Spring,Hibernate , Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Apache Struts.    Some projects to show-case the latest skills acquired.  Golang micro services: https://github.com/mmani-k/address-book (In progress - code will be added in near future.)  Scala/Angular Project: Working on a side project to develop a Scala Play application with Angular front-end with TypeScript. Code Will be uploaded in a couple of days.