Software Test Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Test Engineer Schertz, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Test Engineer Tech Mahindra - San Antonio, TX July 2019 to Present • Preforming knowledge transfers to the rest of the Tech Mahindra folks about how the Rackspace billing applications are built out and tested. Software Developer II in Test Rackspace - San Antonio, TX August 2018 to July 2019 • Responsible for the maintenance of test automation of multiple products. This is a list of applications and testing framework or technologies used;  1. Two different Java applications which are being tested through the use of Python 2.7 in house test frameworks.  2. One Ruby application tested with Python 3, pytest.  3. Two Angular websites being tested with Protractor in JavaScript.  4. One Angular/React website being testing with Protractor in JavaScript.  • Some additional technologies which I used while in this position; Docker, kubernetes, Splunk, Sauce Labs, Git and Github, Jira, and Jenkins. Software Developer II in Test Rackspace - San Antonio, TX January 2016 to August 2018 • As the tester for Rackspace Private Cloud offering, I became more familiar with Ansible deployment and configuration. My responsibilities included deployment validation and test automation through the use of OpenCafe. OpenCafe is the test automation framework for Openstack and is written in Python 2.7. Software Developer II in Test Rackspace - San Antonio, TX September 2011 to January 2016 • I was responsible for testing Cloud Sites UI and APIs.   1. The UI was originally a Java spring application which was being converted to an Angular 1.0 application. I created the UI test automation using python Selenium Webdriver.   2. The API was originally a SOAP service which was converted to a Restful API. The API test automation framework, which I also created, utilized Python's Requests lib and Unittest.  3. During this time I also created a Jenkins CICD pipeline to deploy and test the application.  • I also continued to improve the test automation for both Rackspace Public Cloud APIs and DNSaaS API. Software Developer - QA Rackspace - San Antonio, TX September 2010 to September 2011 • In this role I was responsible for testing Rackspace Public Cloud and Rackspace DNSaaS.   • As part of Cloud Servers validation, I was responsible for the testing of the SOAP service as it was converted to a Restful API.  • As part of DNSaaS, I was responsible for testing the Restful API as it was being developed. Support Technician Mosso / Rackspace Cloud Sites - San Antonio, TX July 2008 to September 2010 • As a Support Technician at Cloud Sites I was the front line support for customers who were experiencing issue with setting up their websites.   • While assisting customers I learned about DNS, SQL, MySQL, PHP, as well as Linux file permissions and file owners. Education Associate in Computer Networking Hallmark College - San Antonio, TX August 2005 Nutritional Science Texas A & M University-College Station - College Station, TX 2000 to December 2003 Skills Javascript (2 years), Python 2.7 and 3.7 (4 years), Jenkins CICD (3 years), Git / Github, Linux, JIRA, Java (1 year), Testing (8 years), Quality Assurance (8 years), Selenium (4 years), API testing (6 years), Automation, PHP, MYSQL, CSS, HTML 5