Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer Raleigh, NC Work Experience Senior Software Developer Envestnet Retirement Solutions - Raleigh, NC 2014 to 2019 Came to Envestnet Retirement Solutions (ERS) when they acquired Klein Decisions in 2014. Continued projects from Klein Decisions, now managing efforts of local developers as well as out of state and off-shore contributors. Refactored existing Monte Carlo simulator as a REST web service for use by new systems. Led deep technical work with new enterprise customers, integrating their proprietary investment products with ERS systems.  Sample Projects  • Repackaged existing Monte Carlo retirement planning simulation as a RESTful web service. JSON used for input and output.  • Technical lead incorporating third party proprietary financial product into managed account servicing platform. Financial product modeled as a precompiled set of 500 million outcomes. Used MS SQL Server.  • Created ETL solution to load market data from Morningstar XML. Built with MS SSIS. Loading approximately 30 million data points a month. Software Development Manager Klein Decisions - Raleigh, NC 2004 to 2014 Joined Klein Decisions as their fourth employee, managing all development internal and external. Maintained and created new releases of initial applications developed by outside contractors. Hired and managed internal developers as well as external development resources. Designed and managed build out of web farms at multiple data centers to host SAAS products. Developed ASP.NET applications, sophisticated financial calculations and created interfaces to consume data from vendors such as Morningstar and S&P. Acted as technical liaison to enterprise customers.  Sample Projects  • Created processes to load performance data from Morningstar, Informa, S&P and others. Coded in Python, VBScript, DTS and T-SQL. Loading approximately 20 million data points a month.  • Created financial product analysis tool to handle mutual funds, ETFs, and separately managed accounts. Web based application written in ASP.NET with C# and SQL Server. Reports written in XSL-FO and SVG and rendered in HTML and PDF using Xalan, Batik and FOP.  • Developed Monte Carlo simulation for retirement planning. Optimizes savings rate, investment risk, retirement age and retirement income to best satisfy individual goals while ensuring high probability of fully funding retirement. Considers factors such as age, income, previous savings, social security, life expectancy, pensions and IRS limits. Investments modeled using asset class expected return, standard deviation and correlation factors. Coded in C# and heavily optimized for speed.  • Coordinated development of retirement planning web based application. Distributed development effort including contractors from three sources as well as internal developers. Administrative application coded in ASP.NET with C#. End user RIA written in Adobe Flex. Three tier architecture with load balanced web servers, a SQL Server cluster, and a services tier with Monte Carlo simulations distributed to multiple servers via MSMQ. Data layer uses Subsonic ORM. Reporting accomplished with ActiveReports. Project Leader Liberty Mutual - Boston, MA 2002 to 2004 Brought on as a consultant with MS development expertise and financial services knowledge, was shortly thereafter made a permanent employee. Within months, developed and brought online a market data system which was then built out to full spec over the following year. Moved department development forward from older technologies such as REXX, FOCUS, and Access to VBScript/Windows Scripting Host, ASP.NET, and SQL Server.  Sample Projects  • Built comprehensive market data system gathering pricing, rating, and corporate action data from various vendors such as Bloomberg and IDC. Accomplished processing and workflow using SQL Server 2000 DTS programming with extensive use of T-SQL stored procedures and VBScript. Developed end user application in VB 6 allowing transaction based, auditable edits and additions to market data. Wrote web based administrative application in ASP.NET (C#) monitoring server and user activity, workflow, and error logs. Used integrated security in SQL Server to tie permissions to existing roles in Active Directory.  • Rewrote custodial bank interface and reconciliation application from Access 97 to VB.NET WinForms with SQL Server 2000 data store. Education Master of Engineering in Hydraulics and Hydrology Cornell University - New York, NY Bachelor of Science in Civil and Environmental Engineering Cornell University - New York, NY Skills Sql server, Sql, C#, Json, Xml, Asp, Asp.net, Rest, Mvc Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster® (CSM®) Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS SUMMARY  C# SQL Server ASP.NET  MVC REST SSIS  JSON XML  Certified ScrumMaster® (CSM®)