AIML Software Engineer AIML <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer AIML Software Engineer - General Motors Austin, TX Work Experience AIML Software Engineer General Motors - Austin, TX November 2015 to Present Working on GM internal search platform to search and analysis data from GM data warehouse (programmed in: Angular, Java micro services with Spring WebFlux, RabbitMQ, Apache Storm, Elasticsearch and Clojure).  ? Developed a platform to manage vehicle design workflow (programmed in: Java, Oracle BPM, Oracle BPEL, Oracle Primavera and Oracle ADF).  ? Developed mechanism to push logs from hundreds of servers running different software to centralized elasticsearch servers and visualize the results in a graphical presentation (programmed in: filebeat, logstash, elasticsearch and kibana) Senior Software Engineer Accenture - Austin, TX December 2014 to November 2015 Developed and implemented notification framework inside of the Accenture healthcare core product, which the US medicate and medicare systems are based (programed in: Java Spring, Oracle BPM, Hibernate and Oracle database).  ? Managed and code reviewed work done by an offshore team. Software Engineer AllianceTech - Austin, TX December 2009 to December 2014 Developed the company's flagship attendee event web portal. It also tracks attendee activities by retrieving RFID scans (programmed in: Java Spring, JPA, jQuery and DB2).  ? Developed signage web application to display conference schedule, real time announcements and twitter feeds. The application utilizes HTML5 local storage to run in the offline mode (programmed in: JSP, jQuery, Twitter4j and Java NIO for socket network communication).  ? Integrated several web applications to Google Analytics to track users online behavior.  ? Developed leads management application to retrieve data from barcode scanners, magstripe readers or business card scanners and capture survey results through keyboard typing and voice recording (programmed in: Java Swing, Java WebStart and Java Native Interface - JNI). Software Developer/ Data Mining Analyst Optelligent Solutions - Houston, TX January 2008 to December 2009 Developed Regression Tree Analysis desktop application (programmed in: vb.net and C#).  ? Developed Fuzzy Logic Searching desktop application (programmed in: vb.net and C#).  ? Developed 3D data visualization desktop application (programmed in: vb.net, C# and Miner3D api).  ? Developed automated decline analysis desktop application to predict future oil & gas production and reserve (programmed in: vb.net, C# and NeuralWorks Prediction Engine).  ? Integrated GIS into the company's software solutions. Software Engineer Academy Sports + Outdoors - Houston, TX May 2007 to August 2007 Developed web application to update the content of the company's main website www.academy.com (programmed in: Apache-Struts, JSP and JavaServlet).  ? Implemented JAAS to the application for user authentication and authorization.  ? Implemented multi-threads and Java socket programming to the application and Implemented Quartz for scheduling Java jobs. Software Engineer / Configuration Coordinator, HEB San Antonio - Houston, TX April 2006 to December 2006 Worked in a team of 12 developers on Merchandise Trade Management (MTM) web application to help buyers to purchase inventory based on each store's characteristics. (programmed in: Apache-Struct, JSP/Servlets, EJB2.x, JAAS, AJAX, and Oracle database). Education Certification in Applied Text Mining in Python University of Mitchigan May 2018 Certification in Intro University of Mitchigan April 2018 Certification in Applied Plotting University of Mitchigan March 2018 Certification in Applied Machine Learning in Python University of Mitchigan February 2018 Master of Science in Computer Information Science in Computer Information Science University of Houston in Victoria - Houston, TX 2008 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central Oklahoma - Edmond, OK 2005 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/gesong