Sr. Mobile Developer Sr. Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Mobile Developer - Deutsche Bank New York, NY • 8+ years of experience as Software Developer with 4 years on Designing and Development of Android Applications for smartphone and tablet and around 2 years on Java based applications.  • Very good understanding of Android Back-end and UI guidelines.  • Proficient with common Android framework API's.  • Expertise in developing apps using SQLite, Java, XML, Json,Google Maps API,Volley API, JavaScript, and GPS Location Data.  • Experience in developing Android application using SQLite, Java, Mobile JQuery, Eclipse IDE,Android Studio, Android SDK and ADT plug in.  • Focused on background processing with AsyncTasks and Services, IPC, AIDL, Storage and retrieval of structured data, fragments and broadcast receivers.  • Expertise in working with public APIs, such as Twitter, Facebook, Google.  • Extensively worked on memory leaks, push notifications, content providers, multiple screen support, data offline usage, accounts and sync on Android.  • Experience in BLE and Camera.  • Worked with Activities, Fragments, Android Binding, Android Framework, AsyncTask, Intent Services, Broadcast Receiver, Mediaplayer, SoundPool, Location Manager, Push Notification and Adapters.  • Extensive experience in dealing with both REST as well as SOAP based web services. Hands on experience with Swift and iOS SDK features and newly-released frameworks.  • Experience on working with mobile application on iOS platform, interactive application development and database management.  • Experience developing and testing products using Java with Eclipse plug-in on the android platform.  • Good experience in HTML5, CSS and JavaScript from hybrid projects in Android.  • Good experience writing automated scripts in Perl and C++.  • Strong knowledge on object oriented programming and software engineering concepts (Design methodologies, Agile Development methodologies, and Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)).  • Worked with version control systems like SVN, Git Hub and issue trackers like Bugzilla.  • A team player with good communication, leadership and interpersonal skills.  • Quick learner and able to adapt to work in fast-paced result oriented environments consistently delivering high quality work.  • Exploring Angular JS and swift language in ios for different applications.  • Test driven development using appuim tool and also java and android instrumentation frameworks. Roboelectric and Robotuim.  • Continuous integration using Android Studio, Gradle and Jenkins. Parallel handling of Eclipse and Jenkins.  • Expertise in working with public APIs, such as Twitter, Facebook, Google.  • Extensively worked on memory leaks, push notifications, content providers, multiple screen support, data offline usage, accounts and sync on Android.  • Experience in BLE and Camera.  • Worked with Activities, Fragments, Android Binding, Android Framework, AsyncTask, Intent Services, Broadcast Receiver, Mediaplayer, SoundPool, Location Manager, Push Notification and Adapters.  • Extensive experience in dealing with both REST as well as SOAP based web services.  • Experience in using third party libraries and GitHub. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Mobile Developer Deutsche Bank - New York, NY December 2015 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked on major mobile cross platforms like Kony, Titanium's Appcelerator, Phone Gap and mobilenative platforms like android and IOS.  • Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework.  • Developing webkit browser based mobile app using technologies like Sencha touch, DOJO and PhoneGap.  • Designed interactive ASP.NET MVC views using JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and AJAX to provide excellent user experience.  • Effectively used PHP, MySQL, JavaScript (jQuery), HTML5, and CSS3  • Developing HTML5 e-learning applications utilizing the HTML5 video and audio APIs with Backbone.js, Angular.js, SASS, Grunt, and Node.js  • Primarily serving as flash developer, secondary efforts were spent as sole / assisting developer targeting iOS (iPad / iPhone), which included r&d efforts for potential Unity (C#) deployment  • Collaborated with Corel on graphics technologies in WordPerfect, Quattro Pro, and CorelDrawpackages.  • Provide hands-on support for local iPhone and iPad users and phone support for remote users.  • Strong knowledge of iPhone/iPad iOS application development using Objective-C, Swift Cocoa/Cocoa Touch, UIKit.  • Experience launching high traffic mobile and tablet applications in both IOS and Android  • Developed windows phone apps for Windows Phone 7 using C#  • Designed and implemented core features for BlackBerry MDM enterprise client on Windows Phone platforms  • Assisted customers with troubleshooting and resolving issues with mobile devices (cell phones and tablets)  • Promote Spring Mobile's ambition of being AT&T biggest and most productive Authorized Retailer.  • Development of a split billing system - core java, collections, spring, hibernate, mysql.  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML  • Effectively used PHP, MySQL, JavaScript (jQuery), HTML5, and CSS3  • Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using Apache CXF  • Implemented Social Media module which involved working with backend using REST APIs to provide social media board posting capability.  • Use of C#, HTML5, AngularJS, jQuery, JSON, WCF, Micro Services, Telerik, Kendo UI for developing the application.  • Developed application using Eclipse Ganymede for rapid development.  • Extensive work experience on setting up WebLogic Domains, configuring/monitoring/ administering Admin Servers, Managed Servers and Node Manager.  • Practiced relevant agile development methodologies and worked daily with subversion and current networking technologies.  • Proficient in using test automation tools such as Selenium WebDriver/RC/IDE/Grid, QTP and QTP, Appium to develop Automation testing scripts for web, Mobile and client server applications.  • Worked with business teams using Agile methodology to integrate business line of apps with SOA in a seamless fashion.  • Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using spring, Hibernate, Servlets and JSP.  • Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.  • Architected a new module for the base project to enable Web Content Editing.  • Specializing in SOA (SOAP, REST, MQ, store procedure) manual and automation testing.  • Writing and Optimizing MySQL Queries and connect queries to PHP.  • OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  • Applying Ruby on Rails and JQuery debugged, enhanced, extended business-to-business SAP application. Provided extensive integration and functional mocks testing.  • Inaugurate the start-up operational and management for the preservation, and future educational access of the respective collections of two researchers (Wharton and Ruby).    Environment:  Titanium, PhoneGap, , Sencha Touch, HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Backbone.js, Flash, CorelDraw, iPhone, iPad, Android, Windows Phone, Blackberry, Tablet, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, MYSQL, APACHE CXF, REST, Web Services, Eclipse, Weblogic, Subversion, Selenium, Agile, JSP, SERVLET, MAVEN, Web, SOA, PHP, Ruby Sr. Mobile Developer Golden State Bancorp Mortgage - New York, NY October 2014 to November 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Created cross-platform mobile application prototypes with Adobe Air and PhoneGap  • Designed, development, testing and implementation of WEB applications using Sencha Touch framework.  • Utilizing CSS, HTML5, JS, JQuery, JQTouch, AJAX.  • Designed and developed the application to be responsive for desktop, mobile and tablets using Twitter Bootstrap (HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript).  • Used CSS3 to effectively style the layout.  • As DOJO Instructor train Predix solution and Cloud Foundry services over dozen teams during a year.  • Developed frontend widgets in Backbone.js and Handlebars.js.  • Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud ,,backend.  • Debugging Mobile AIR application using Flash Builder  • Developed a fully responsive web design hybrid single page application, that allowed simplication of a write once serve all devices methodogy that allowed the use of percentages layout, scabable use of em fonts, vector scalable embedded icons, and use html5 css3 flexbox's flex-direction column-reverse implementation to correctly display content for ease of use for handheld device users.  • Develop Silverlight application using Onion/PRISM Architecture.  • Created re-usable custom components in Flex and ActionScript  • Experienced in all aspects of IPhone, IPad application development, iOS Provisioning Portal and the processes involved including designing for all types of screen sizes and orientations.  • Experience launching high traffic mobile and tablet applications in both IOS and Android  • Developed windows phone apps for Windows Phone 7  • Designed several UI screens for this BlackBerry 10 C++ application  • Promoted Spring Mobile's culture by being actively engaged in growth of the New England Region while opening 6 Whitespace Locations. Extensive experience in change management gained while helping 4 major acquisitions of a 100+ stores.  • Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using spring, Hibernate, Servlets and JSP.  • Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  • Used PHP to create a connection and query data from MySQL  • Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using Apache CXF  • Experience with Jenkins, SOAP, REST and other client-server API testing.  • Developed front end by using HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON and AngularJS.  • Developed REST Web Services using Spring  • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web Ajax application.  • Experience setting up WebLogic Servers on both Clustered and non-Clustered environments.  • Used VSS (Visual Source Safe) as configuration management tool.  • Performed automated testing using Selenium IDE and Web driver.  • Actively supported and led Scrum development teams for three vertical business units (game client development, content delivery, and metagames), with a record of on time, weekly content releases.  • Was involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content  • Sound knowledge on Junit, TestNG framework for Unit testing, Maven and Ant for Project building tool, Jenkins/Hudson for Continuous Integration.  • Developed prototypes using Flex ActionScript, JavaScript, HTML, GWT.  • Implemented agent-server messaging dialog using and JMS (Active MQ) implementation.  • Used PHP / MySQL in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL and PHP) environment for creating dynamic data driven and interactive web pages.  • Profitably managed two local Ruby Tuesday locations culinary departments in central North Carolina while focusing on the necessary guests' service experience.  • Develop WordPress themes to meet the needs of the small business owner.  • Built custom websites for clients using CMS's (Drupal) by coding custom modules and themes, as well as utilizing e-commerce APIs for secure payment processing.  • Used ADO.NET to provide connectivity to SQL Server back end database.  • Designed and built it based on previous Classic ASP version. Upgraded its original database from Access to SQL 2008.  • Achieved necessary knowledge to solve many problems using C and Java throughout coursework.  • Hand coded a Smalltalk library module in Microsoft Visual C++ to create an interface between Smalltalk and IBM MQ Series.    Environment:  PhoneGap, jqtouch, Sencha Touch, HTML5, CSS3, Dojo, node.js, Backbone.js, Flash, Flex, Silverlight, ActionScript, iPhone, Android, Windows phone, Blackberry, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, MYSQL, APACHE CXF, REST, JSON, Web Services, Eclipse, Weblogic, Visual Source Safe, Selenium, Scrum, JSP, SERVLET, ANT, GWT, JMS, PHP, Ruby , wordpress , drupal , .Net , ASP , C , C++ Sr. Mobile Developer Konica Business Technologie - New York, NY April 2013 to September 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developing webkit browser based mobile app using technologies like Sencha touch, DOJO and PhoneGap  • Mobile-Web, Enyo R&D, created 8 PhoneGap Android, iOS, Window-Mobile plug-ins  • Using sencha touch for development to find relevant people for the same social Networking Websites  • Developed a multi-platform mobile application to visualize gene expression database using Sencha Touch  • Design and development of iphone and Samsung BADA based applications  • Description: The Front Door Paint iphone /iPad app allows users to capture images of objects like houses, create frames on its doors/windows, apply colors to the frames and view the outcome. They can save the edited images on their device and mail them. The app works on devices operating on iOS 5 and above.  • Created processes and worked with exclusively with vendors on wireless charging solutions of iPads for guest services and staterooms.  • Develop application for Windows Phone 7 using C#, SQL, WCF  • Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.  • Developing the web applications majorly in Node.js, Angular.js, JavaScript, CSS3 and html5.  • Designed and developed the User Interface using JSP, HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Node.js Java Script, Web API, Microsoft BizTalk, Razor, Designed and developed user interface using Visual Studio and ASP.Net.  • Implemented custom search solutions using Coveo (an enterprise search engine), Backbone.js, and .NET web services (see Goodwin Procter's site for an example).  • Developing web application with Backbone.js and PHP CodeIgniter framework.  • GUI development using Flex sdk in Adobe Flash builder.  • Used subclipse plug-in with Flash builder for configuration management  • Developed a C# and Silverlight front-end application to access the web service  • Developed Silverlight add-on applications for use with CRM 2011 solutions  • Implemented business requirements using Actionscript.  • Designed and implemented an mobile version of lizardbase using jQTouch.  • Developed a mobile web application for eMedicalTours.com using jQTouch. Application works on both Android and Apple iOS devices.  • Created GMU CS website as part of class project using CSS, HTML5  Developed Custom Tags to simplify the JSP code. Designed UI screens using JSP, CSS, XML1.1 and HTML.  • Used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Developed the workflow interfaces using JSPs, CSS, Struts Tiles layouts and the request processors using Dispatch Action and Action  • Developed prototypes using Flex, ActionScript, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java  • Used RMS storage as a database and the Blackberry API was applied for the user interface.  • Created mobile applications for Blackberry, Android, Windows 7, and iPhone mobile phones using Java.  • Experienced in Oracle , SQL, PL/SQL, MS Access and MYSQL databases.  • Developed web services using Apache Axis2 in Java and SOAP/WSDL on SOA architecture.  • Developed JUnit test cases to validate the REST services.  • Consumed Restful Web services where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  • Developed Contract List to pull all the contracts which returned a JSON which is acceptable by Dojo Grid.  • Experience on web designing  • Developed various reusable helper and utility classes using Java Beans with Eclipse editor.  • Used Weblogic Application Server for deploying various components of application.  • Language & Tools: Android DT, Monkey Runner, JMeter, JUnit,Git , Gerrit, Jenkins, FOTA, Shell, Microsoft Visio, HP ALM, Loadrunner  • Worked with dotCMS Core QA Team in developing test plans, verifying functional code changes, anticipated features of upcoming releases and Reporting bugs in Git Hub using Test rail Software.  • Created functional automation scripts using open source tools selenium (selenium RC, Grid)  • Acted a Scrum Coach for adoption of Scrum for BI business projects  • Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  • Designed and implemented business functionality for WEB system hidden login authentication, agent import and "can see" using the following technologies: JAXB, SAX, XML, and Servlets.  • Strong Knowledge on build tools like Ant, MAVEN, Shell scripting, Windows Batch Scripting.  • Extensive skills in development of web based applications using Java , JDBC and advanced technologies such as J2EE(Servlets, JSP ), Struts, Gwt, Hibernate and EJB Framework.  • Developed custom web forms using PHP and JavaScript.  • Generated simulation data using in-house software and Ruby scripts. Developed GUI and data-handling features for in-house analysis software (Java). Performed server configuration and maintenance to support Git, Active Directory, and OpenVPN. Built and maintained several servers and workstations including Windows Server and desktop variants, Ubuntu Server and desktop variants, Fedora, and CentOS.  • Built up a client base and experience in the web field. Maily HTML/CSS and WordPress.  • Built custom websites for clients using CMS's (Drupal) by coding custom modules and themes, as well as utilizing e-commerce APIs for secure payment processing.  • Worked with performance tuning in .net and Reporting Services.  • Built ASP.NET C# legal billing program that accepts barcode gun input. Also used javascript to advance from field to field after gun is clicked.  • Creating Clients and Server for Java to establish communications between 'Online' client windows and different servers created using both C++ and Java    ENVIRONMENT:  PhoneGap , jqtouch , Sencha Touch , HTML5, CSS3, Dojo Mobile , node.js , Backbone.js, Flash , Flex, Silverlight, ActionScript, iPhone, Android , Windows Phone 7,Blackberry , Spring, Hibernate , MYSQL, APACHE CXF, REST, JSON, Web Services, Eclipse, Weblogic , Git,GitHub, Selenium, Scrum, JSP, SERVLET , ANT, GWT (Google Web Toolkit) , PHP, Ruby, wordpress , drupal , .Net , ASP, C and C++. Software Developer Nexan Inc - Seattle, WA April 2011 to March 2013 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Design UI screens using JSP, CSS, Struts Framework, Flash, Java Script and HTML.  • Implemented Change Requests and Enhancements using Flex and Java technologies  • Develop Silverlight application using Onion/PRISM Architecture.  • Developed prototypes using Flex 3, ActionScript 3, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java 1.5.  • Repair of iPhone generations 3G-4S, glass/screen replacement, Color change, Battery Replacement, ect. Ordering parts and business advertisements.  • Maintaining and debugging Android project that communicates with proprietary  Bluetooth devices  • Developing a multi platform phone app for iOS, Android, Blackberry and Windows Phone 7 using PhoneGap and Sencha Touch.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Developed and Implemented WebServices and used Spring Framework.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • MySQL to access data in the database at different Levels.  • Have used the Apache CXF to build web service clients    Environment:  jQuery, Entity Framework, SQL Server 2008, , AJAX, Javascript, CSS, REST/SOAP, TFS 2010, MVC IOS Developer Hard Hat Bid Inc - Riverside, CA April 2009 to March 2011 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Developed the workflow interfaces using JSPs, CSS, Struts Tiles layouts and the request processors using Dispatch Action and Action  • Created Dialog boxes using DOJO for better look and feel.  • Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.  • Developing the web applications majorly in Node.js, C#, ASP.NET, PHP, Angular.js, JavaScript, CSS3 and html5.  • Designed and developed the User Interface using JSP, HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Node.js Java Script, Web API, Microsoft BizTalk, Razor, Designed and developed user interface using Visual Studio and ASP.Net. Created multidimensional databases (OLAP cube and data mining) with SQL Server Analysis Services 2012.  • Created reports and dashboards on SQL Server Reporting Services 2012 and SharePoint 2010 (PerformancePoint Services and Excel Services).  • Designed applications based on Kimball and COBIT specifications and generated projects documentation (Database OLTP and OLAP, Data Transformation phase [ETL Packages] and Business Reports).  • Trained the IT staff on MS Visual Studio 2012 and SQL Server Data Tools.    Environment:  SQL Server 2005, AJAX, Javascript, CSS, REST/SOAP, Crystal Reports, Agile, Silverlight Education Masters in Computer in engineering University Of Philadelphia Skills HTML (8 years), java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), JQuery (8 years), JSP (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Mobile Platfroms PhoneGap , jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Android, Android SDK/NDK  Javascript frameworks Jquery mobile, Dojo Mobile  J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, Struts, JDBC, JSP Custom Tag Libraries, XML  Web/App Servers IBM WebSphere, Tomcat, JBoss, Apache, Resin, Apache Axis, EAP6  Databases Oracle, DB/UDB, SQL Server, MySQL,  Languages Core Java, Java using generics, JavaScript, ActiveX, Perl, PL/SQL, XML  Frameworks Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC, Mate, Adobe Flex, MXML, Action Script  Methodologies Agile, SCRUM, TDD, Design Patterns, Continuous Integration using Cruise Control  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, CS3, AJAX, WebServices JAX-RPC, JAX-WS