Senior Lead Developer Senior Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Lead Developer - Realpage Inc Dallas, TX Work Experience Senior Lead Developer Realpage Inc - Dallas, TX March 2016 to Present Developed dynamic, highly interactive and data rich UI for revenue management portal using  Angular  ? Used Spring MVC endpoints and Hibernate for backend calls  ? User roles and permissions were handled using Spring security  ? Used charts and grids in Angular to represent complex data  ? Used Jasper reports for multi-format report generation  ? Created Linux shell scripts for deploying releases.  ? Tools: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Jasper, PostgreSQL, Angular, Bootstrap, node.js Senior Java developer RedPanda.co.in - Gurgaon, Haryana October 2015 to March 2016 - Gurgaon, India    ? Developed UI/Layouts for Android using Recycler Views.  ? Created navigation using Action bars, Navigation drawers.  ? Coded business logic related to apparel designs and constraints.  ? Persisted model objects in SQL lite and remotely using REST calls.  ? Tools: Java, Android framework, Android Studio, JUnit, Mockito, Git Senior Developer at Tacit Knowledge Nike-Converse (eCommerce) - San Francisco, CA February 2015 to August 2015 Added products to PIM (Product Information Management).  ? Frontend: Made changes to landing pages, product description pages, cart, login page, carousel, banners using Java, Javascript, css, sass, html, isml (Demandware).  ? Created UX (user experience) flows using demandware pipelines.  ? Wrote testable code as part of test-driven development (TDD). Tested code using JUnit, Mockito and EasyMock.  ? Tools: Java, IntelliJ, Javascript, css, sass, compass, Demandware, JUnit, Mockito, EasyMock, Git, Maven Senior Software Consultant Client - Kaiser Permanente - San Francisco, CA May 2014 to January 2015 Coded Spring MVC application to generate insurance sales.  ? Internationalized the application for Spanish using Spring resource bundles.  ? The application was split into two parts. The front application was responsible for generating  the views. The second was a REST backend for pulling data. The data was then used to populate the views in the first application. The front application also pulled data from legacy Rest  endpoints.  ? The database was reverse engineered using Spring Roo to generate Hibernate ORM.  ? Followed best practices by using TDD and generating testable code. JUnit and Mockito was used  to test.  ? Tools: Java, IntelliJ, Git, Mockito, Jersey, Spring MVC, Spring Roo, Hibernate, JUnit, Mockito, Maven Senior Software Developer Knighted Software Solutions - Emeryville, CA September 2012 to May 2014 Developed Supply Chain solution for major retailers - EasyPick. It is an end to end solution for Warehouse Management. Agile development was used in design, coding, testing, staging,  deployment of the solution.  ? JUnit was used for unit and functional testing. Performed code reviews using Crucible.  ? Set up nightly builds on Jenkins.  ? Coding was done in Java with Spring to wire it up. Hibernate was used to map DAO's to MySQL.  ? The front-end was Spring MVC.  ? Followed best practices by using TDD and generating testable code. JUnit and Mockito was used  to test.  ? Tools: Java, Eclipse, Mockito, Spring MVC, Jenkins, Git, Hibernate, JUnit, Mockito, Maven Software Developer Naukri.com April 2012 to August 2012 Designed and implemented a RESTful solution for recruiters to create job-seeker related  accounts. The information stored included skill sets, job experience and profiles for job seekers  currently in the process of being hired.  ? Technologies used included REST, Jersey, Ajax, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle SQL Developer, JUnit, Maven Software Developer Convergys Corp - Dallas, TX May 2005 to March 2012 Designed and customized the Convergys on-demand platform for high volume telecoms related  to live agent/supervisor management, caller account management.  Technologies used included Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, Eclipse, JBoss, JUnit, Mockito.    ? Designed and coded for the server side frontend of Control Center product. The Control center  was responsible for configuring the telephony system and providing live view of the telephony  system  Technologies used included JSP, JSLT, Servlets, Tomcat, JUnit, Eclipse, Mockito, Maven.    ? Worked on implementing multi-tenancy for hosted solutions.  Technologies used included Hibernate, Oracle, SQL Developer, Spring, Eclipse, JUnit, Mockito    ? Designed and coded a messaging middleware for Convergys Interaction Cloud. Various  components of the cloud which included telephony component, intelligent call router, dynamic  decision system could send messages to each other using this facility.  Technologies used included JMS, JNDI, JBoss Messaging, JUnit4, Eclipse, JUnit, Mockito    ? Worked on the Media server which is the company's core product with call control and media  control functions. The Media Server is responsible for setup, teardown, transfer, bridging, conferencing, recording (call & conference) incoming and outgoing calls. VXML and CCXML were  used for scripting call control and media control.    ? Technology: Visual Studio .NET, VC++, Windbg, Umdh, Process Explorer, Siemens Hicom 300E  running CAS span, Intel Dialogic Telephony Boards, ISDN - TBCT (Two B Channel Transfer) span, AT&T *8 span, ClearCase. Software Developer Verizon Inc - Dallas, TX August 2004 to May 2005 Worked on ISP Gateway which is an Order Management System (OMS) for voice and data. It  does the business validation and interacts with many external systems to provision the order.  Worked on design and development of utility classes for XML Parsing using JDom, Queue  Submitter using JMS and Data access Modules using Weblogic, JDBC and Oracle.  ? Technology: JDBC, XML, JDom, JUnit, Weblogic, JBuilder, Visio, SQL, Oracle, ClearCase. Education M.S. in Computer Science University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX December 2003 B.S. in Electronics and Communications Institute of Technology and Management - Gurgaon, Haryana May 2001 Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Angular, Javascript, Node