Director of Software Development Director of <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Director of Software Development - Apogee Informatics Corporation Huntsville, AL Director with 20+ years of vast experience as a systems designer, developer and architect with a majority of the work focused in the life sciences and healthcare IT solutions area. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Software Development Apogee Informatics Corporation - Huntsville, AL November 2008 to Present Created solutions for real-time emergency department, operating room, patient staffing and laboratory monitoring and improvement platforms.  ? Successfully designed and developed all system phases; from hardware selection and configuration to system architecture design and coding of initial prototypes.  ? Converted system infrastructure from a basic startup to an enterprise hardened system.  ? Managed and led teams utilizing Scrum (Agile) work methodology for rapid turn-around on effective solutions.  ? Led customer support program for US based hospital clients.  ? Worked with various EMR/EDIS systems to create interfaces for extracting real-time data from hospital systems nationwide.  ? Reverse-engineered various EMR systems to develop eternal interface connections.  ? Led team that created genetics interface for gene-drug interaction platform.  ? Oversaw and implemented HIPAA compliance for staff and IT systems.  ? Virtualized platforms with VMWare, AWS and Azure cloud solutions.  ? Served as reference for advice and guidance for executives and employees on technical issues and design.  ? Created marketing campaigns and proposal materials for advertisement and customer retention.  ? Hired, managed and motivated team of engineers to develop a leading edge hospital network information system. Systems Engineer SAIC - Huntsville, AL August 2000 to November 2008 Picis operating room implementation specialist.  ? Worked with various utility power providers as a Documentum and Maximo developer.  ? Pioneered interface between Documentum and Maximo systems via reverse engineering..  ? Developed hand-held ICD9 lookup application.  ? Helped to design and develop health insurance clearinghouse application.  ? Developed data reporting solutions for MD Anderson cancer center.  ? Worked with NASA, Special Operations Forces and US Navy for development of various applications Software Engineer Lifecom, LLC - Huntsville, AL April 1999 to August 2000 Driver development for hospital paging system.  ? HL7 messaging interface development for laboratory and admission systems.  ? Designed and developed applications for use in patient call systems Database Developer IFDC - Muscle Shoals, AL January 1998 to April 1999 Designed database solution per customer's requirements.  ? Designed user interface and client reporting system. Education B.B.A/C.I.S University of North Alabama - Florence, AL August 1994 to December 1998 Skills .net, C#, C++, Html, Python, Visio, Xml, Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, Juniper, Vmware, Dns, Firewalls, Iis, Cisco asa, Hl7, Database, Sql server, Mysql Additional Information ? Director with 20+ years of vast experience as a systems designer, developer and architect with a majority of the work focused in the life sciences and healthcare IT solutions area.  ? Analytical, critical and adaptive approach to providing solutions.    Technical Skills    Database:  ? SQL Server (SSIS, SSRS, Azure)  ? Oracle  ? MySql  Programming Languages:  ? .NET (C#, VB, ASP)  ? C++  ? Java  ? Python  Various:  ? HL7(FHIR, 2.x, CCD)  ? HTML, XML, Wordpress  ? Active Directory, Windows Server(NT, 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016, 2019), DNS, IIS  ? Linux Server/Desktop (Debian, Fedora, Ubuntu)  ? Juniper SRX550 firewall device, Cisco ASA, Sonicwall appliances  ? Core network services - DHCP, IP routing, edge firewalls  ? VMWare (CLI, ESXi), Veeam, TrueNAS  ? Tableau, PowerBI  ? Microsoft Office suites (Visio, Word, Excel, Access, etc)