Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Rockwell Collins Work Experience Software Engineer Rockwell Collins July 2018 to Present Tested Software code and Requirements using automated test scripts in python. Used various tools for thorough Operational Flight program analysis and verification.  ? Designed and coded new features for specific Programs in C++, C and ADA.  ? Worked in an agile team, actively participated in Sprint planning, resolving issues within cross-functional  teams and checked on risks, dependencies within the team.  ? Contributed to software engineering requirements capture, analysis, and creation for well-defined software designs.  ? Performed Software debugging of ADA, C++ and Python for various programs and features to investigate the root cause of software issues.  ? Contributed to cross-functional team efforts in integration, verification and validation for products and subsystems.  ? Provided engineering estimates for my own work on tasks similar to those previously performed.  ? Integrated Change Requests, new Software Components and Software test scripts into the existing software  Programs. Graduate Teaching Assistant School of Computing, Clemson University September 2017 to December 2017 Lab Instructor for Introduction to Computer Organization. Lectured and guided students in understanding  assembly language (ARM Programming)  ? Assisted them with their assignments and also motivated to help them improve their performance.  ? Reviewed and Evaluated their assignments with feedback Full Stack Developer National Brick Research Center, Clemson University February 2017 to September 2017 Conceptualized, designed and developed an innovative user interface using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS.  ? Automated the Application to generate reports from user input data through PHP and MySQL.  ? Directed the development of the database schema, utilizing normalization forms to ensure maintainability of the data model. Explored the Crystal Server to customize and build reports allowing more flexibility within.  ? Organized and facilitated project planning, daily stand-up meetings, reviews, sprint, release planning, demos, and other Scrum-related meetings Software Engineer Intellect Design Arena Limited June 2015 to December 2016 Developed Core Banking and lending solutions using J2EE Spring framework and MySQL.  ? Implemented Know Your Customer (KYC) Module for a bank by accessing data from multiple databases and producing  the results through ETL tool. Improvised the design of modules using JavaScript, jQuery and CSS.  ? Worked on database to create tables of data and Pl/SQL procedures that interfaced with the front-end application.  ? Migrated the Core Banking application from Servlets to springs. Incorporated Agile into existing Products. Education Masters in Computer Science in Design and Analysis of Algorithms Clemson University January 2017 to May 2018 Skills C#, C++, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, REACTJS, PHP, PYTHON, VISUAL BASIC, JDBC, MYSQL, CSS, ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, jQuery, JSP, SERVLETS, ANDROID, ANGULARJS Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/sravani-chatrathi-89308467 https://www.linkedin.com/in/sravani-ch