Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer San Francisco Bay Area, CA I am a Full Stack Developer with 15+ years experience in software development. I am seeking for a full-time position where I can contribute my talents and grow for life. I am a US-citizen and able to work for any employer. Annual salary negotiable ranging from $138,000 to $168,000 or ($68/hr to $88/hr on W2). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer KEYTAX - San Jose, CA June 2019 to Present www.keytax.us - Payroll Software Service Company  n Architecting, designing, and developing an online payroll system for payroll providers.  n Technologies employed including but not limited to: Electron, ReactJs, PHP, Javascript, HTML, CSS, Xcode, Ubuntu, MacOS, Windows, oCloud, oBrowser, OpenStack, CI/CD  n Reason for Leaving: I'm looking for a full-time position where I can contribute my talents and grow together for life. Full Stack Developer CHILIOS - San Jose, CA June 2014 to May 2019 www.chilios.com - Apps Development Company  n Responsible for system architect and design, and building wireframe, and code core components of MVP's for start up  companies. Developed and supported private secure communication systems for clients. Features include Messaging, Calling, Email and Hosting for Web, Mobile Apps. Implemented and Deployed Messaging and Calling Systems for  Alternative Social Media Web Solutions. Developed a secure anonymous communication platform with audio and video  conference call with both centralized and P2P features.  n Technologies employed including but not limited to: NodeJs, Cordova, AngularJs, ReactJs, Codeigniter, Wordpress, WebRTC, Restful, MySQL, Sqlite, MongoDB, npm, gulp, webpack, nginx, git, github, xcode, AWS, Docker, VirtualBox,  Ubuntu, MacOS, Windows, iOS, Android  n Reason for Leaving: Things were slowing down, and there was no more opportunity to grow and learn. Software Engineer IBM - San Jose, CA December 2005 to August 2013 www.ibm.com - Enterprise IT Infrastructure for Businesses  n Designed, supported and tested of DFSMS software systems and Internal Development Tools. Performed  responsibilities for unit testing, debugging, software/hardware integration.  n Technologies employed including but not limited to: PL/X, HLASM, JCL, Eclipse, Websphere, Java, C/C++, CICS/VSAM, RLS, Catalog, Coupling Facility, SYSPLEX, MVS, z/OS, Windows  n Reason for Leaving: IBM went through global consolidation layoffs, and I got hit, but manager said eligible for rehire. Software Engineer EHUMAN - San Jose, CA January 2003 to June 2004 www.ehuman.com - Innovative electronic educational programming for students  n Developed and Implemented 2D interactive skull atlas mobile app for iPhone. Developed 3D interactive atlas with views of environment historical data and real-time alerts.  n Technologies employed including but not limited to: OpenGL/WebGL on Android, Java, VS .Net, Xcode, JavaScript, PHP, C/C++, ObjC, Swift, HTML5, CSS, LESS  n Reason for Leaving: The company ran out of budget.    190812  SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA / (669) 333-8868 / TUNGTRAN8868@GMAIL.COM    KEYTAX - PAYROLLSOFTWAREDEVELOPMENT  Role and Responsibilities  n Architecting a payroll system for payroll providers.  n Working with CSS preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like Grunt and Gulp  n Working with Node.js, Express.js, and MongoDB to create server-side applications.  n Debugging applications in different browsers like Chrome, Firefox, and oBrowser.  n Working with Git and Github for version controls.    Accomplishments  n Developed and implemented a payroll web app with ReactJS, PHP, PostgreSQL, nginx, Ubuntu.  n Designed and Implemented Desktop App for Mac OSX with Electron Framework.  n Designed and Implemented Desktop App for Windows with Electron Framework.  n Developed and Implemented REST APIs to access payroll services in backend.    CHILIOS - SOCIALNETWORKINGSOFTWAREDEVELOPM E N T  Role and Responsibilities  n Responsible for system architect and design, and building wireframe, and code core components of a social networking  software platform similar to Facebook, with features like chat, audio/video calling and conferencing, timeline, blogging, and social sharing features.  n Responsible for analyzing the requirements and enhanced the application which improved maintainability, extensibility and performance.  n Utilized various hybrid full-stack solutions like ReactJs, AngularJs, Cordova, WebRTC for front-end software clients like  Mac OSX, Windows, iOS, and Android with back-end server solutions like Rest APIs, NodeJs, Licode, and Kamailio.  n Worked with US-based and Offshore Development Teams in multi-cultural startup environment.    Accomplishments  n Developed and supported private secure communication systems for clients. Features include Messaging, Calling, Email  and Hosting for Web, Mobile Apps with AngularJS, ReactJs, HTML5, Javascript, TypeScript, NodeJS, REST APIs, Cordova, Xcode, ObjC, Swift, Ubuntu, AWS.  n Implemented and Deployed Messaging and Calling Systems for Alternative Social Media Web Solutions.  n Developed a secure anonymous communication platform with audio and video conference call with both centralized and P2P features with WebRTC, ICE, STUN, TURN, Licode, Sip, Kamailio, Asterisk.  n Fixed bugs with message queue to build real-time pipelines.  n Utilized Node.js, Socket.io, and Angular for scalable website architecture and real-time technology.  n Performed front-end development utilizing HTML5 Canvas CSS3, PHP and JavaScript leveraging the Bootstrap  framework.  n Worked with npm commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of node js  applications.  n Worked with NoSQL database Mongo DB and worked with it to perform many different operations.  n Used JQuery for callbacks, promises and event based functions.  n Developed and architected an improved single-page application using existing REST API.  n Created APIs that our team consumed with NodeJs and MySQL.  n Developed Web Applications using the MEAN Stack with MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS, NodeJS.  n Implemented a Restful API server with Nodejs and Express.  n Used Apache Cordova for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript where the command line  runs on Node JS.  n Designed REST APIs that allow effective and low cost application integration.  n Developed user interfaces using AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, HTML5, and CSS3. Provided a responsive, AJAX-driven design  using JavaScript libraries such as Angular.Js and Node.js.  n Migrated the front end of single page application from AngularJs to ReactJs.  n Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSON, Angularjs, ReactJS, and REST Services.  n Developed single page applications using Angular 2.0, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  n Used AngularJS, JQuery and JavaScript for designing web pages and developing the business logic.  n Applied AngularJS to follow MVC patterns for improving the source code and maintaining track of it.    190812  SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA / (669) 333-8868 / TUNGTRAN8868@GMAIL.COM    IBM - MAINFRAMESYSTEMSOFTWAREDEVELOPME N T  Role and Responsibilities  n Responsible for software development of z/OS mainframe sub-systems in system storage.  n Responsible for provide software enhancement and fixes with daily utilization of problem-solving skills while demonstrating adaptable, proactive and willing to take ownership.  n Performed responsibilities for unit testing, debugging, software/hardware integration with oversight.  n Participated in engineering technical reviews.  n Engaged in defining source code management, version control and patch release engineering processes.  n Communicated to back-end engineers, UX designers, product management and customers.  n Worked both Waterfall and Lean and Agile Development Process.  n Worked with US-based and Offshore Development Teams in multi-cultural enterprise environment.    Accomplishments  n Developed real-time software system diagnostic health checkers for DFSMS to identify potential problems before they impact z/OS enterprise system availability or, in worst cases, cause outages.  n Designed, supported and tested of DFSMS software systems and Internal Development Tools.  n Developed and implemented features and bugs fixes with daily utilization of hands-on troubleshooting and software  debugging skills.  n Collected and correlated test data and recognize discrepancies in results.  n Provided work effort estimates, assist in project planning efforts including project task definition.  n Developed high security features for enterprise system storage management, data sets and objects, so that the system  can securely and automatically assume storage management tasks that were previously done manually.  n Implemented algorithms to simplify storage management and optimized, to increase efficiency usage of enterprise  system space and resources.  n Developed new features for Record Level Sharing (RLS) for enterprise storage file access and sharing with PL/X.  n Debugged and Analyzed Memory Dumps to find issues and implemented fixes in a timely manner.  n Wrote test-cases with JCL for functional tests.  n Helped QA engineers writing JCL test cases for system tests.  n Performed Websphere /Eclipse Full Stack Development.  n Implemented new features for processing large volumes of data in real-time and batch modes.  n Performed and developed optimization for Tools and Features for Reliability, Availability, Serviceability, and Security.  n Worked with team in Agile Development Process with daily scrum meetings.    EHUMAN - 2D/3D INTERACTIVEATLASSOFTWAREDEVELOP M E N T  Role and Responsibilities  n Responsible for software development for 2D/3D interactive atlas for iPhone and Windows.  n Worked in both front-end and back-end.  n Worked with SOAD and REST APIs to extract third party data sources.  n Presented MVP and solutions directly to the CTO and the CEO.  n Demonstrated ability to learn and utilize diverse programming languages as part of the development process.  n Demonstrated the ability to deliver results in a short time and experience working in fast paced high growth  environment.    Accomplishments  n Developed and Implemented 3D interactive atlas with views of environment historical data and real-time alerts. It is  a geo-spatial 3D virtual globe visualization via OpenGL/WebGL on Android, Java, VS .Net  n Developed and Implemented 2D interactive skull atlas mobile app for iPhone.  n Utilized SOAP to access remote data-sources for the 3D virtual globe to populate real-time news around the globe  relating to specific user preferences.  n Translate mockups to UI implementation for the 2D skull atlas mobile app.  n Performed optimization for user experience and accessibility.  n Performed optimization for the app's performance.  n Developed and Implemented REST APIs for analytics services. Education Master's in Computer Engineering San Jose State University Skills Android, Angularjs, Cordova, Html5, Ios, Xcode, Api, C/c++, C++, Docker, Git, Javascript, Reactjs, Webpack, Php, Codeigniter, Swift, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Angular, Node, React, Jquery, Nodejs, AWS, Angular, Node, React Additional Information EXPERTISE  Languages & Technologies: Tools & Platforms:  AngularJs 5yr Cordova 5yr Codeigniter 1yr AWS 5yr Docker 5yr VirtualBox 1yr  NodeJs 5yr ReactJs 1yr Wordpress 5yr Ubuntu 5yr MacOS 5yr Windows 5yr  WebRTC 5yr REST API 5yr Electron 1yr iOS 7yr Android 5yr Npm 5yr  JavaScript 5yr PHP 5yr C/C++ 5yr Gulp 5yr Webpack 5yr Nginx 5yr  ObjC 5yr Swift 5yr HTML5 5yr Git 5yr Github 5yr Xcode 7yr  CSS 5yr LESS 1yr SQL 5yr Chrome 5yr Firefox 5yr oBrowser 1yr  MySQL 5yr Sqlite 5yr PostgreSQL 2mon oCloud 1yr Rasp. Pi 1yr CentOS 1yr  MongoDB 1yr WebGL 1yr ASP.Net 2yr Linux 5yr OpenStack 2mon CI/CD 2mon