Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - SchoolPass Lexington, KY Full stack developer with 5+ years of experience with a passion for finding solutions to unique  problems. Nearly 10 years in the IT field having worked my way from a technician to Systems  Administrator, and finally to development where I found my calling. Work Experience Software Engineer SchoolPass January 2019 to Present Created an integration framework in .Net Core to simplify School Pass integration with third- party SIS. Bug fixes and feature enhancements on existing WebForms codebase. Extensive  debugging of existing C# codebase and SQL stored procedures. Assisted junior developers Freelance Developer Environmental Laboratories Inc February 2018 to Present Built Cooler Tracking System in .Net Core and React. Created MCHD Automator to post lab  results to MCHD with Selenium. Maintenance and feature additions to the VB.net LIS. Report  creation with SSRS. Senior .Net Developer Kentucky Transportation Cabinet May 2017 to July 2018 Developed the DMC Screening API to replace a multi-million dollar contract with a third- party. Built Bentley SuperLoad translation service for CVIEW. Bug fixes for KURTS. Software Developer / Systems Engineer CAL Laboratory February 2016 to May 2017 Developed LOIS (Lab Order Information System) and supporting applications. Created  applications to automate custom reports with DevExpress. Redesigned network and implemented VLANS, VPN, Sohpos Router while managing servers and Active Directory. Client Technology Engineer II UK HealthCare May 2014 to February 2016 Designed and built HMS to notify all users of important messages from IT. Created Printer  Deployment Tool for managing printers through group policy, significantly reducing workload for CTE. Designed Network Share Assistant to empower department heads to control  permissions to their file shares. Software Programmer / Assistant Systems Administrator Madison County Schools July 2009 to May 2014 Started as an intern technician and eventually was hired on as an assistant systems administrator,  and then as technology programmer. Managed Avaya network equipment, windows servers, and created applications to support the IT department. Education B.S. in Network Security and Electronics Eastern Kentucky University August 2009 to August 2014 Skills .net (5 years), C# (5 years), Git (4 years), Html (5 years), Javascript (3 years), Sql (5 years), Visual studio (5 years)