Lead Developer/ Architect Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Architect Lead Developer/ Architect - LPL Financial San Diego, CA • Innovative Technology leader with 19+ years of experience in Architecture, Design, Development, Delivery, maintenance of complex project spanning various technologies. Provided leadership and successfully managed global cross functional teams to deliver several complex Software products using heterogeneous technology stack.  • Technical Architect / Manager / Scrum Master setting priority and milestones to adhere to the budget, schedule and scope using Agile Methodologies.  • Hands on Full stack developer with latest technologies to guide teams, drive adaptability and build consensus in diverse groups and deliver best of breed solutions. Work Experience Lead Developer/ Architect LPL Financial - San Diego, CA March 2011 to Present Projects: New Account Opening, Check Deposits, Move money, DOL 609, Dormant Account conversion, RTT, KYC, Pay2Play, Suitability - GRC 204, AOE HVR, Windows migration, Production supports, Work orders.   Responsibilities:   ·        Led Onsite and Offshore Dev team of FTEs and Vendors/contractors for several projects with a track record of delivering products on time and budget with high quality.    ·        Well versed in Agile methodologies, responsible for Sprint planning, Sprint demo, Sprint retro, capacity planning. Worked closely with ScrumMaster, Architects, QA, product, DevOps, Release managers for successful delivery.  ·        Created SYDD (System design document), Runbook etc. for adhering proper SDLC process.  ·        Architect, design several n- tiers applications and presented the design documents in Architecture Review board for approval.    ·        Hands on full stack development in various technology stacks (UI, Services, backend) using AngularJS, Asp.Net Web API, Mule API using AnypointStudio, writing complex Stored procedures.  ·        Leading, guiding production support team for at least 15 live applications in ClientWorks. (LPL Advisory Platform). Actively involved in troubleshooting of Prod incidents.  ·        Worked with DevOps team to implement CI/CD process. Worked in creating Teamcity build and deploy in various environments (Dev, QA, QA Perf, Prod) with help of DevOps team.  ·        Worked on Resource planning, Work break-down structure.   ·        Engaged in continuous collaboration with vendor and other support group and business stakeholders.  Lead Developer Fidelity National Financial - Santa Ana, CA March 2007 to February 2011 Project: BrandedSiteRedesign.  Description: This project will replace the local operation site administration tools with a suite of modules to add functionality to each operations portion of the web site. This application is capable of creating multiple websites for all 6 brands (Alamo Title, Chicago Title, Commonwealth, Lawyers, Sutic, TicorTitle).  Responsibilities: Architecting the application in 3-tier model. Responsible for full product delivery on time and budget. led team of developers and Analysts.  Technology: AJAX, ASP.Net3.5, C# 3.5, TFS, SQL Server, LINQ, Web services. Senior Developer National Flood Services Inc - Kalispell, MT July 2006 to February 2007 Project: Evolution.  Description: NFS is into a business of developing an application which processes Flood Insurances.  Responsibilities: Involved in Developing UI Layer in Asp.net2.0 using C#. Hands on C# 2.0 developments of most of the Business Logic layer and Data access layer that constitutes project framework.  Technology: ASP.Net2.0 Provider Model, C# 2.0, Visual Studio 2005, TFS, SQL Server 2005, Web Services. Team Lead Total Systems - Columbus, GA September 2003 to June 2006 Project: ProphIT, TOTAL SYSTEMS (TSYS)  Description: ProphIT is a CRM application with an intuitive, scripted, workflow-driven interface that enables Call center personnel to service customers with maximum efficiency when performing tasks like increasing a credit limit or reporting a stolen credit card.  • Responsibilities: Worked closely with the executive team and end users to capture requirements. Hands on development of most of the business layer that constitutes project framework. Developed UI components and server controls in Asp.Net 1.0..  Technology: ASP.Net 1.0/2.0, C#, VB.Net, XML, Designer Studio and SQL, Remoting, Web Services. Senior Software Engineer Infoquark Solution (p) Ltd June 2002 to September 2003 Project: Com_ Enterprises Resource Planning and Automation  Description: The company is a leading electronics distributor in South Africa. This is an ERP system which includes features of Supply Chain Management (SCM) to automate process of preparing Requirement List, Comparison, Sales Forecasting.  Responsibilities: Involved in designing Presentation Layer using ASP.NET 1.0. Made extensive use of Dataset for XML Data Binding and Bindings to server controls.  Technology: Windows 2000, IIS-5.0, MS SQL Server 2000, XML, Visual-Studio.Net, C#, Asp.net1.0. Senior Software Engineer Sunita Global Ltd June 2000 to May 2002 Global Online Link Direct August 2001 to April 2002 Description: GOLD is a corporate internet banking application to replace three flat client systems. Facilities such as domestic payments, global payments and viewing of balance and transaction data will be available.  Responsibilities: Involved in developing Business Logic and Data Access Logic components. Involved in writing several database-stored procedures to enhance performance and maintainability.  Technology: Windows2000, ASP3.0, JavaScript, IIS-5.0, XML, COM+, VB6.0, SQL-Server 7.0, Visual Source Safe, HTML, CSS.    Project: Credibility First Rating  Dec 2000 to Jul2001  Description: Crisil is in the business of rating various companies under different segments of industries and suggesting rating models to various banks and Financial institutions.  Responsibilities: Developed ER-diagrams and involved in normalizing the database tables. Wrote Inline Views, Triggers and User Defined Functions, Stored procedures in T-SQL  Technology: Windows NT, IIS-4.0, ASP2.0, Oracle 8i, VB 6.0, HTML, VB Script, JavaScript, Visual Interdev 6.0, HTML, CSS. RISKXPERTZ.com June 2000 to November 2000 Description: This project is mainly consisting of FOREX and COMMODITY site. FOREX SITE has a mechanism under which exporters and importers exchanged currencies in order to facilitate buying and selling of goods and services among countries.  Responsibilities: Involved in developing ASP web pages for Forex and commodity modules.  Technology: Windows NT, IIS-4.0, ASP2.0, Oracle8i, VB6.0, XML, HTML, VB Script, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Visual Interdev 6.0, Front Page-98. AgroAuction.com February 2000 to May 2000 Description: The site provides an auction floor that enables a registered user to request for a sell, request for a buy, bid at auction.  Responsibilities: Involved in designing User interface for assigned web pages. Developed ASP web pages for Admin & Registration, weather forecasting and market trend modules.  Technology: Windows NT, IIS-4.0, ASP2.0, MS SQL Server 7.0, HTML, VBScript, JavaScript.    Project: Employee Information System  Sep 1999 to Jan 2000  Description: The Intranet package consists of Employee Information System module, Project Management module, Library Management Module.  Responsibilities: Involved in designing User interface for assigned web pages. Developed ASP web pages for Employee Information module which displays each employee's personal data, educational information, passport details etc.  Technology: Windows NT, IIS-3.0, ASP2.0, MS SQL Server 6.5, HTML, VB Script, Java Script, HTML, CSS.    Project: NASDAQ Price Length Conversion and Decimalization  Feb 1999 to Aug 1999  Description: The aim of this project was to find out the entire price, amount, and quantity fields present in the database and how they are used in the programs because these fields are used in stocks and shares.  Responsibilities: Involved in conversion of entire price, amount, quantity and their related fields existing as fraction to decimals.  Technology: IBM AS/400, OS/400, DB2/400, RPG/400, Hawkeye, Aldon Change Management System. Software Engineer Ivega Corporation Pvt. Ltd January 1999 to May 2000 Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering National Institute of Technology Skills Sql server, Sql, Asp, Asp.net, Api, C#, Git, Javascript, Asp.net web api, Devops, Amazon ec2, Ec2, Angularjs, Jira, Product management, Kanban Additional Information Skills:  • C#, ASP Net core, JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, Asp.Net Web API, Restful APIs, MuleSoft, Microservices, DevOps (CI/CD), TFS, GIT, Appway (BPM), SQL Server, AWS, Amazon EC2.  • JIRA (Agile product management - Scrum/Kanban).