SOFTWARE ENGINEER <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> ENGINEER SOFTWARE ENGINEER Kansas City, MO Work Experience SOFTWARE ENGINEER WUNDERMAN DATA MANAGEMENT - Westwood, KS May 2018 to March 2019 Developed SQL scripts for key client to ensure accurate and seamless data transfer; maintained web pages for one of company's top clients using C#, SQL, and MVC; collaborated with functional leaders and key stakeholders to develop traceable goals and actionable metrics; evaluated opportunities to streamline or execute process improvements; provided solutions and recommendations; implemented initiatives to meet overall corporate objectives.  KEY ACCOMPLISHMENTS:  ? Increased accuracy of data into customer database, resulting in more accurate reporting of vendor sales incentives by updating website and creating stored procedure for data updates.  ? Decreased new database automation tool learning curve 25% by developing comprehensive training guide.  ? Reduced operating costs and increased speed to market by automating database insertion; subject matter expert in Control-M workload automation. SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER TRAVELPORT - Kansas City, MO January 2012 to August 2017 Improved testing process and development by creating training guide for new test tool used by developers; executed projects using standard agile and waterfall techniques and processes; implemented internal development plan for employees to increase professional development; participated in peer code reviews and provided feedback on ways to improve; developed strong multi-departmental relationships to effectively coordinate and discuss workflow and scheduling updates.  KEY ACCOMPLISHMENTS:  ? Saved company $1.5M+ by leading platform migration project; oversaw project management to develop new processing in C++.  ? Decreased processing time ~10% by reorganizing and normalizing database structures.  ? Increased customer satisfaction 25% by implementing processes to address and correct reported defects; developed C++ application to manage new airline data, reducing pricing failures and increasing customer profits; oversaw project teams and effectively communicated project updates to stakeholders.  ? Reduced company debit memos and fines 35% by analyzing and resolving errors between legacy code and new C++ processing to ensure correct pricing results.  ? Played integral role in $2M cost saving by collaborating with project managers on agile team to migrate code from existing processing platform to new platform.  PROFESSIONAL PROGRESSION SOFTWARE DEVELOPER, CUSTOMER SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE TRAVELPORT - Kansas City, MO July 1996 to January 2012 Evaluated industry trends and performed risk assessments; initiated actions to ensure business continuity; identified and rectified supplier data filing errors; demonstrated advanced analytical and problem solving skills; effectively communicated and collaborated with key stakeholders to discuss project planning, implementation, and execution; improved organizational effectiveness by developing and implementing strategic change initiatives including project management processes and procedures.  KEY ACCOMPLISHMENTS:  ? Increased customer profits ~10-15% by improving processing time of fuel tax changes; oversaw project management for three of top customers; coordinated resources and led team of eight developers to manually input data into database until automated process was finalized.  ? Saved customers ~$10,000 by creating new C++ application to simplify fare filings and maintain on time completion.  ? Maintained 97% successful implementation rate loading 1,500+ programs to production. ELECTRONICS TECHNICIAN, INSTRUCTOR, SUPERVISOR UNITED STATES NAVY August 1976 to August 1996 Provided supervision to 15 employees by driving the highest level of performance to effectively maintain security systems guarding nation's nuclear missiles; oversaw nuclear missile security by managing maintenance, material, and management schedule; led project management of maintenance and security upgrades; coordinated with various commands to meet scheduling benchmarks; served as Leading Petty Officer to supervise divisions of 12-25 people; facilitated pre-commissioning training sessions for two crews to increase overall proficiency; created database to accurately track school requirements for crew members; generated required reports and presented to executive officer to track training progress.  KEY ACCOMPLISHMENTS:  ? Built and implemented project plans and schedule to increase equipment calibration efficiency; coordinated resources; set and met scheduling and productivity benchmarks to ensure on time completion of equipment calibration.  ? Saved company several million dollars in procurement costs by developing tracking system for test equipment.  ? Increased course uptime 50% by rewiring training lab.  ? Received letter of commendation for tracking and processing of security clearances by developing Access database for efficient tracking; provided status reports to senior command members.  ? Saved several thousand dollars by utilizing training flights to transport personnel to schools.  ? Increased weekly department training scores 20% by implementing new training program.  ? Received letter of commendation from Submarine Force Atlantic for assistance in repairing equipment resulting in on time departure for strategic patrol. Education Technical Certificate in Full Stack Web Development CENTRIQ TRAINING CENTER - Leawood, KS October 2017 to February 2018 BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in COMPUTER INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PARK UNIVERSITY - Parkville, MO Skills Sql, .net, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Prolog, Mvc, jquery, Css, HTML 5