SOFTWARE ENGINEERING MANAGER / SCRUM MASTER <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> ENGINEERING MANAGER / SCRUM MASTER Las Vegas, NV Experienced team manager with strong technical expertise.   Key achievements:  • Proven ability to act as an interface between development teams and non-technical clients, proactively identifying use cases and translating them into feature requirements;  • Maintained a reputation of people oriented and servant leader that takes each individual team member talents into account. I sincerely enjoy mentoring and fostering skills development for my direct reports;  • Received recognition for technical and software architecture expertise on global company level, other teams requesting consulting services on technical matters. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SOFTWARE ENGINEERING MANAGER / SCRUM MASTER KASEYA - Las Vegas, NV August 2018 to Present Managing two teams of engineers (on site and remote) specializing in different technologies stacks (.net and JEE, cloud environments - AWS, Azure).  ? Ramped-up a functional remote team of engineers, ensuring smooth hand-over in a timely manner.  ? Adjusted the development and delivery process and ensured monthly production releases.  ? Experienced releasing solutions for cloud environments - AWS, Azure.  ? Acting as a facilitator for the development teams in the context of a continuously changing Agile environment. ENGINEERING MANAGER / LEAD UBISOFT - Bucharest, RO December 2015 to July 2018 Managed a team of engineers in charge of developing multi-platform engines features for AAA titles. Projects included: Ghost Recon Wildlands, Ghost War PVP, unannounced title.  ? Ensured a highly-functioning engineering team (12-20 people) with a very low turnover rate.  ? Actively involved in the recruitment process for programming job families. Hiring manager for multiple positions both in Bucharest and Belgrade studio.  ? Maintained a strong relationship between the local team and other remote Ubisoft CoDev studios, resulting in a fruitful and trustful collaboration.  ? Facilitated the information flow between Engineering team and partner disciplines (Art, Design, Product management, QA) to ensure the team is focused on delivering the right quality for the players.  ? Planned the feature development roadmap ensuring the milestones of the project were met. TECHNICAL LEAD / PRODUCT OWNER UBISOFT - Bucharest, RO July 2012 to December 2015 Managed a team of Java developers building scalable middleware and services for F2P online games. Enthusiastically worn multiple hats: product owner, system architect, technical lead. Technologies used: JEE, EJB, clusters, web services, web APIs, JBoss, Wildfly, Primefaces, JSF, Ajax, JSON, XML, REST, MySQL, Hibernate, Maven, Jenkins, JIRA, Confluence, UML, Linux, Zabbix.  ? Directed the product scope as a product owner. I successfully acted as an interface between the internal clients and the development team.  ? Proactively proposed a set of new services starting from the needs I have identified.  ? Designed the technical architecture and the interactions between multiple backend components, ensuring a real-time scalable and efficient service oriented environment.  ? Defined and implemented the development methodology using a tailored agile (SCRUM) approach.  ? Recruited and built up a team of Java developers (4 people) from scratch. Mentored and couched the professional development of each direct report. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER ORACLE - Bucharest, RO November 2011 to July 2012 Involved in the development of a recruitment platform. Technologies. Used: J2EE, Struts Framework, Javascript, Ajax, HTML, CSS, DHTML, Hibernate, application server WebLogic, Oracle 11g database.  ? Designed the architecture and technical specification for the recruitment platform.  ? Hands-on implemented features for the platform (e.g.: all formats resume viewer).  ? Designed the full UI interface used for the recruitment platform. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER at IBX CAPGEMINI BPO - Bucharest, RO May 2008 to November 2011 Developed new functionalities for B2B e-procurement suite of applications. Technologies used: JEE, Seam, Struts, JSP, Javascript, JQuery, Ajax, HTML, CSS, DHTML, Solr, Hibernate, JBoss, Microsoft SQL Server, XCBL, XML, Web Services, UML, JIRA, Ant, Maven.  ? Maintained a highly appreciated collaboration with the product consultants, providing them technical support and integrating their requirements into the features.  ? Fully refactored and optimized a complex section used for displaying a hierarchical structure of catalog products.  ? Gained experience in agile software development (SCRUM). SOFTWARE DEVELOPER KEBA AUTOMATION - Bucharest, RO August 2007 to May 2008 Developed new functionalities for banking automation, ATMs and multi-functional machines. Technologies used: Java, Javascript, HTML, CSS, DHTML.  ? Implemented a first time available feature for barcode reader bill payments.  ? Improved the UI interface displayed by the machines to the end user. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER ESOLUTIONS - Bucharest, RO June 2006 to August 2007 Developed new portlets to integrate with the Liferay open source portal. Technologies used: JEE, JSP, Struts, Spring, Javascript, Ajax, PHP, HTML, CSS, Tomcat, MySql.  • Created a Content Management System (CMS) used for building various web sites. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Statistics and Computer Science Academy of Economic Studies Bucharest 2004 to 2008 Skills Agile Scrum, Scrum, Scrum Master, Jira, PM, Java, Software Development, Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/cecilia-osborn Certifications/Licenses ? Prince 2 Foundation & Practitioner Certification (PMP Certification equivalent) October 2014 PRINCE2 - Project Management, helps to successfully deliver projects of any size or complexity. Built from a wealth of experience and knowledge, PRINCE2 provides the essentials for managing any project.