Teacher Assistant Teacher Assistant Web Developer Miami Analytical and self-motivated Software Developer with experience creating dynamic and responsive web applications as part of cross functional teams. Strong and efficient communication and problem solving skills which when combined with my technical skills, allow me to transform convoluted problems into simple and effective solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Teacher Assistant 4Geeks Academy - Miami, FL May 2019 to Present Serving as a teaching assistant/mentor for a group of 10 students.  ? Evaluate students coding assignments and provide feedback according to best  coding practice standards.    ? Thoroughly explain complex concepts and materials in a manner that students can  easily understand. Software Developer AdvisorBid - Miami, FL April 2019 to Present Developing responsive and dynamic user interfaces by combining SASS, Grommet  components and ReactJs.  ? Developed scalable ReactJs components for managing and displaying different types of information and services provided.  ? Actively involved in designing and developing base classes and reusable components. Instructor TechLaunch/TechHire - Miami, FL June 2019 to August 2019 Leading a group of students towards receiving a Site Developer Associate certification.  Build HTML, CSS, and JavaScript web games using responsive and principles and following best practices.   Introduced advanced concepts such as javascript modules, array methods, and data structures.  Serve not only as an instructor but also as a mentor to these students. Assistant Manager File Liquors - Miami, FL February 2016 to June 2019 Managing day to day operations of the store.  ? Handle all orders and inventory.    ? Implemented a customer service strategy that resulted in more than doubling our  gross income.    ? Started as customer service associate/cashier and worked my way up through positive results and work ethic. Education 4Geeks Academy - Miami, FL January 2019 to May 2019 Bs in Criminal Justice Florida International University - Miami, FL August 2012 to December 2016 Dade College School of Continuing Skills Aws (1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), Git (1 year), Sass (1 year), Public Speaking (5 years), Teaching (1 year), Javascript (1 year), ReactJs (1 year), CSS3 (1 year), Npm (1 year), Wordpress (1 year), Java (1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/amart1751 http://github.com/amart31 http://martinezandy.com Certifications/Licenses Site Developer Associate May 2019 to Present Additional Information SKILLS  ReactJs JavaScript HTML5/CSS3 SASS NodeJs Express Webpack MySQL Bootstrap  Git NPM Restful API's AWS C9    Site Developer Associate Certification