Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Consultant - Cisco System Denver, CO I'm an experienced developer looking for a challenging new role in the software industry with the opportunity to work with the latest technologies on challenging and diverse projects. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer WorldPay - Denver, CO Present Converted a legacy financial Web Methods applications to Spring Cloud, using Swagger REST APIs, DB2 database. Delivered a a Spring Cloud application that allows management of pay terminals. Deployed environment was OpenShift Cloud and kubernetes. Consultant Cisco System - Denver, CO July 2018 to October 2018 Design and architecture of a Micro Service based enterprise platform proof of concept used by large cellular providers (Verizon, Sprint, AT&T, etc) for network management and visualization. Technical Environment: Google Cloud,Spring Boot, Docker, kubernetes, MongoDb and Kafka Consultant Raytheon September 2017 to June 2018 Member of the team the GPS Operational Control System's team, GPS Next Generation Operational Control System (GPS OCX) is currently in development. OCX modernizes the ground system, allowing it to take advantage of the updated capabilities of GPS II and GPS III satellites.  Technical Environment: J2EE, JMS, Spring, Oracle, Gradle Consultant Comcast March 2016 to September 2017 Migrated several components that are part of a legacy application into brand new Microservices, using Spring Cloud and Cloud Foundry. Provided technical expertise regarding Cloud Native and RESTful web service design and development along with overall Java technical oversight in support of the Service Assurance application suite.  Technical Environment: DevOps, Cloud Foundry, OAuth2, Spring Boot, Eureka, Ribbon, Kafka, Hystrix, GoCd. Consultant Boeing August 2014 to March 2016 Worked on a project that replaced the extraction and delivery of the Jeppesen Terrain Database which contains man-made and certain natural obstacles extracted from digital and paper sources provided by governmental civil aviation authorities and military agencies worldwide and used by pilots, dispatch, and other flight operations planners.  Technical Environment: Spring, Hibernate JPA, Web Services, PrimeFaces, Oracle Spatial, MongoDB. Consultant Absio January 2014 to August 2014 Development of Absio Dispatch which is an email client that automatically encrypts each individual message and attachment.  Technical Environment: Agile, Java, Hibernate JPA, Git, Intellij. Consultant Maximus September 2012 to December 2013 Worked on a project that provides low income families with health insurance, I developed the initial application intake layer that applied several rules when clearing applications based on family history, composition and current coverage the design is based on the decorator pattern. This layer is exposed to struts2 clients as well as web services.  Technical Environment: SOAP, EJB 3, JPA 2, Struts 2, JAXB 2.0, Weblogic, Oracle OSB, Gradle, Eclipse, Agile, UML, XML, JDBC, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, Linux Full Stack Lead Developer Charles Schwab - Financial Services 2007 to 2012 Lead developer of Funds Center, an application used by service representatives when recommending investment options to clients providing the ability to drill down and sort Mutual Funds and ETF portfolio information from a shared Oracle database  Additional duties included designing and maintaining an Oracle framework used to import very large XML files from MorningStar into Oracle XML schema, data was updated daily and was distributed to several internal and external applications such as Schwab.com, 401K company, International Schwab using Web Services.  Migrated and maintained an application called Automatic Investor Portfolio, from Sentry to a Service Bus, this application provides a service that allows periodic withdrawal of a specified amount from the shareholder's bank account to be invested in his or her mutual fund account.  Technical Environment: Spring, REST, IBatis, Hibernate, Struts 2, JQuery, Websphere, ANT, Eclipse, Agile, SOAP Senior Software Developer Great West Life - Financial Services 2004 to 2007 Developed and maintained financial services middle tier components as well as front end applications which provide 401(k) record keeping for more than 2.9 million participants and $85 billion in assets.  Developed new features to the business layer which performed all of the allocation, transfer, and account balances for all of the 401 K plans. These enhancements are in use by several components in the client and presentation layer and are implemented using J2EE as well as C++.  Implemented and designed a solution using Java Connector Architecture (JCA) providing a framework that allows the application server and the resource adapter (Orbix Connect) to manage transactional connections from the J2EE application to CORBA services (Java and C++ to Oracle databases).  Technical Environment: Struts, Weblogic, C++, ORBIX CORBA (Java and C++ layer), JDBC, PRO C, ANT, Eclipse, Solaris Lead Software Engineer Information Handling Services - Englewood, CO 2000 to 2004 Member of a team that designed and developed a suite of interacting EJB and CORBA components to implement subscription licensing software. The system controlled access to on-line products, recorded shopping cart orders and processed credit card and P.O. transactions. Developed a JSP based user interface using a model-view-controller architecture to provide online access to service representatives. The system also supported web service access.  Developed J2EE and CORBA applications using JBoss as the application server in a Solaris, Linux and Windows NT platform. Wrote Oracle C++ clients using Pro-C++ and OCI in a Sun Solaris platform. Some of the projects include Credit Card transactions, Tax calculations, Encrypting, and several internal applications. Technologies used for these projects include: Java, EJB, SOAP, JavaBeans, Servlets, SWING, JSP, Taglibs, J2EE, Oracle, PL/SQL, JBoss, C++, CORBA, JDBC Design Patterns and UML.  Developed SWING application for all of the distributed components, these applications were used by developers as well as the QA team. Most of the classes were re-used by other internal applications using MVC and JSPs.  Technical Environment: Java 4, JBoss, C++, ORBIX CORBA (Java and C++ layer), JDBC, PRO C, ANT, Eclipse, Intellij, SWING, Solaris Software Developer Evolving Systems - Englewood, CO 1998 to 2000 Worked as a telecommunications application developer in the Local Number Portability team which enables telephone customers to switch carriers while keeping their existing phone numbers and calling features.  Wrote detail designs using tools such as Rational Rose. Coded to specifications using mostly C++ and some Java Servlets in the server side, and Java (Applets) as the GUI interface. In addition I maintained and developed the server's database layer using Oracle pro C++ in a HP UNIX environment.  Maintained and developed an adapter that accepted input from South Bell in a proprietary network protocol, the gather information was populated in an Oracle database and eventually fed into the LNP system via CORBA.  Technical Environment: Java 3, C++, ORBIX CORBA (Java and C++ layer), JDBC, PRO C, Visual Cafe, AWT, HPUX Software Developer Denver Department of Human Services - Denver, CO 1995 to 1998 Developed client-server applications in Visual Basic and Microsoft Access. One of these applications managed "Temporary Assistance to Needy Families" (TANF) funds.  Developed and maintained a distributed defect tracking application that was used by the Information Systems.  Worked as part of the Information Service Technology team that modernized the Department network from a XENIX to an NT platform. Education B.S. in Computer Information Systems Regis University - Denver, CO 1998 B.S. in Electronics Engineering Technology Tampa Technical Institute - Tampa, FL 1992 Skills ORACLE (10+ years), ECLIPSE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), STRUTS (9 years), SOAP (10+ years), Cloud Foundry (2 years), Spring, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Hibernate, Javascript Additional Information Over 20 years of experience as a software developer, in a variety of industries such as aerospace, aviation, telecommunications, financial and health.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Frameworks: Spring Boot, Struts 2, Primefaces, JPA  Web Technologies: Cloud Foundry, Oracle Service Bus, REST, SOAP, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, Web services, SOAP, JSON  Web Servers: WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, Tomcat, Jetty, Apache  Programming Languages: Java, C, C++, Groovy  Databases: Oracle, MongoDB, MySql, PostgreSQL  IDEs: Eclipse, Intellij, Netbeans  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows  Source Control: GIT, SVN, Subversion  Methodologies: DevOps, Agile, Waterfall  Others: Gradle, Maven, SQL, PLSQL, UNIX scripting  Miscellaneous: Bilingual, Spanish/English.