Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Uhray, LLC Kearney, MO Seeking a Business Analyst type role, the role needs to leverage my Accounting/Systems/Development  experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Uhray, LLC April 2018 to Present Develop modern web applications with the Angular framework.  Technologies - Angular 5+, Angular Material, NPM, Node.js, RESTful API, MongoDb, Git, GitHub, Typescript, CSS, SCSS, Ionic, Cordova, serverless functions Financial Systems Analyst Burns & McDonnell, Inc March 2014 to April 2018 As one of seven Financial Systems Analysts, I worked closely with developers and accounting staff to design, configure, and test financial systems for new software implementations, enhancements and upgrades. Burns and McDonnell runs on  Oracle EBS R12.  Areas of focus:  Project Costing - AP, Payroll, Project Forecasts, ETC, Task Allocation  Financial Statistics - Project Labor, Burden, Actual, Forecast, Hours metrics  Billing - Supported issues related to the customized Oracle Billing system  Expense Reports (Oracle iExpense) - Responded to needs of power users such as Internal Audit and Help Desk    Projects included:  Setup a Canada Joint Venture Operating Unit  Implement new multi-currency statistics of Translation, Elimination and Consolidation  Overhauling the Billing Backup Report  Developed a solution to correct monthly geography code updates  Implemented Neopost Shipping Integration  Implemented AMEX Direct Pay (with Oracle iExpense)  Implemented Positive Pay (RBC/UMB)  Update the Projects Close and create a Project Permanently Close Process  Develop a multi-entity Billing Default Setup module  Automate tax M1 calculation (reduced tax staff time from 2 months to less than a week)    Technologies  SQL - Building, repairing and updating complex SQL statements (100 + table queries)  PL/SQL - Learned PL/SQL language, studied existing code to understand business-logic, troubleshoot issues, drafted and tested code  BI Publisher - Learned to debug complex output by digging into the Template and XML Software Developer Vitran Express October 2013 to January 2014 Between my acceptance and start date, Vitran was acquired by CT Transportation. I was terminated in January 2014 (first  group of developer terminations). I gained some exposure to native Android development and ASP MVC4, but it was very  limited. Accounting Manager (Controller) WLX, LLC February 2005 to September 2013 February 2005 - September 2013 Accounting Manager (Controller)1 WLX, LLC  I answered directly to the President and Managing Member. I was responsible for all company financial activity as well as, select legal and IT activity.  Accounting  Hired in February 2005 as the Controller, just 2 months following the company's formation which was created through the acquisition of assets from a distressed Flatbed trucking company  Reconciled actual AR/AP to disclosed AR/AP for the calculation of the final valuation.  Developed relationships with WLX managers, bank, legal counsel, vendors and select customers  Reviewed and signed hundreds of carrier contracts, which developed my understanding contractual risk.  Monitored activity in a joint venture between WLX and a US/Mexican LTL Brokerage Company.    Information Systems  From the Fall of 2006 to the Fall of 2010, I inherited the day-to-day IT needs following the IT manager's resignation2.  Changed ERP systems 3 times. Upon Arrival TMW3  1. Fall 2005 - Moved to Maddocks (DB2)  2. Fall 2006 - Moved to Innovative (AS400)  3. January 2011 - Moved to McLeod  In Spring of 2010, I recommended WLX consider an alternative to the AS400 system, invited two vendors to present  their products, and spent several months drilling each vendor and their references on every level of functionality.  Negotiated cost so low, that according to the alternative vendor, we were the third company able to negotiate such terms. Education MBA in Finance Rockhurst University BS in Accounting University of Central Missouri Skills Oracle (4 years), Accounting (10+ years), Angular (1 year), SQL (5 years), PL/SQL (2 years), CSS, Git, Javascript, HTML 5 Assessments Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/crnd11zi6y1yjzfx Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/r9xflfiky2ylfbw2 Data Analysis — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bsp9ftfgjzckvnlj Statistics — Proficient July 2019 Understanding statistical methodology and interpreting common statistical calculations. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gzvemtlwmbxuj1bq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information The type of opportunity I am seeking probably would not exist in a company with less than 2,000 employees. I need to be in a role where both my Accounting/Finance and Systems background are needed and has opportunity for growth. I am very good at working with Type-A personalities in both Accounting and Systems, because I know how to frame the questions.     While my resume includes a number of environments and technologies such as Oracle EBS, Python and Angular, do not assume that these are the only technologies I will work with or these are the only technologies I have used. I have experience with many other technologies, but I don't want to convey a greater sense of knowledge than I have achieved.     Finally, I left Burns and McDonnell due to the 2 hour round trip commute. While I may consider temporary positions with a 2 hour commute, I will not consider any positions with more than a 1 hour round trip commute. Downtown Kansas City or the Northland is great, but Overland Park, KCK is not.