Office Manager Office Manager Office Manager - Metro Auto Sales Dearborn, MI Work Experience Office Manager Metro Auto Sales - Detroit, MI January 2016 to Present Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  • Developed and maintained an eBay listing template using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript web technologies.  • Kept track of office inventory.  • Developed monthly and annual reports using automated programs.  • Filed large volumes of paperwork through a quick and accurate process.  • Maintained record keeping of relevant documents.  • Researched and investigated new business techniques to improve operations.  • Provided computer support for peripherals and desktop applications to co-workers.  • Proofread word textual documents for correct grammar, spelling, and punctuation.  • Documented and filed out forms pertaining to the sales of vehicles and parts.  • High volume of tasks involving asking customers for sensitive information pertaining to the purchase of a vehicle.  • General bookkeeping using Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Word.  • Performed word processing automation to produce a variety of textual documentation.  • Experience using a computer daily to perform daily duties including scanning, faxing, uploading, and downloading documents.  • Experience with automated systems that included specialized software that produced analysis and creation of reports.  • Provided administrate functions that made sure all departments were working towards a common goal.  • Provided personnel transactions that included the hiring and promoting of employees.  • Worked independently and effectively to prioritize tasks with little to no supervisory control.  • Managed and organized relevant information for future references.  • Provided communication both orally and in writing to customers to obtain personal information  • Worked with clients and customers of diverse backgrounds to assess their needs, provided information, assistance, resolve any problems they may have and satisfied their expectations.  • Knowledgeable in the available products and services that are provided.    Supervisor: Mike Hammond 313.802.0202  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Jr Software Web Developer Trademark Productions - Royal Oak, MI October 2018 to November 2018 309B South Main St  Royal Oak, MI 48067    10/2018 - 11/2018  Salary: 13.00 USD Per Hour  Hours per week: 40    Jr Software Web Developer  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  • Updated and maintained client's websites using Drupal, WordPress, and Magento.  • Converted Photoshop files into websites using web technologies.  • Assisted clients with issues regarding their websites.  • Completed tasks with deadlines on time.  • Diagnosed and resolved problems in response to customer filed complaints.  • Escalate more complex problems to senior level technicians.  • Attended weekly meetings.  • Interacted with customers telephonically  • Shadowed employees to get a better understanding of the workflow.  • Knowledge in technical computer terminology to develop and maintain websites    Supervisor: Dwight Infringer 586.822.5810  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Education Bachelor's Degree in General Studies Baker College Clinton Township - Clinton Township, MI 2016 to Present Skills Data Entry, Microsoft Excel