Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Edwardsville, IL I am a well-versed individual who is passionate about technology and has experience working with various technologies for an eclectic collection of companies. As a degreed electrical engineer and self-taught software engineer, I've worked as a controls engineer, board designer, machine vision engineer and software developer from start to finish on most of my projects. A new challenging opportunity is what I'm looking for now. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer American Medical Software - Edwardsville, IL October 2018 to March 2019 • Quickly up to speed on the company's Electronic Health Records (EHR) software suite.  • Transitioned web based secure email client provided by Updox to a captured .NET DLL assembly and integrated into base application.  • New email client utilized API calls and was instrumental in passing certification test.  • Assisted team in validation tests of CCDA (Consolidated Clinical Document Architecture) XML files created by AMS EHR software. Software Engineer TEKsystems/ Tapestry - St. Louis, MO June 2016 to October 2018 • Wrote, updated and ran VB.NET and ADA test plans for Tomahawk Mission Planning software in an agile environment.  • Updated and ran C# test plans for fighter aircraft Mission Planning software in a scrum environment using Jira and Crucible.  • Created complex join and filtered Microsoft SQL server queries to assure system was correctly configured.  • Mentored several testers on usage of Subversion, Virtual Machine configuration and Beyond Compare. Senior Analyst/ Developer Scientific Research Corporation (SRC) - Scott AFB, IL August 2015 to June 2016 • Exclusively worked on a proof of concept special project as a web application/services written to better manage the COI user attributes and written with the Spring MVC framework and Maven for easy deployment to a Tomcat Linux server.  • Java based web application pulled attributes from a web service co-located on a Tomcat server initially and then moved to an Amazon EC2 cloud. Senior Software Developer Basler Electric - Highland, IL October 2000 to June 2015 • Developed five major projects, three green and two brown field from start to finish.  • Created BESTLogic+ to allow users to draw logic diagrams in a free form visual presentation.  ? Green field project using VB.NET and GoDiagram for image rendering and compiling of the diagram into proprietary code for transmission to various company devices.  ? Completed solo in under a year (expected duration) as part of a larger agile effort.  ? Immediately integrated into the lager multi-device universal application.  ? Created C# tools to aid in melding PC application databases with firmware database code  ? BESTLogic+ was well received by customers and even repurposed as generic cost  • Led effort to convert a large C++ project of an Eaton generator controller to full .NET application called BESTCOMS Pro.  ? Five contract programmers were marshaled to wrap the logic diagram and communications sections inside .NET due to time constraints.  ? New front end was designed and implemented to mirror the new BESTLogic+ despite the desperate methodology employed by Eaton.  ? Finished project performed well with the older hardware and also the new more capable hardware that Basler Electric designed later.  ? BESTCOMS Pro was completed within budget and on time.  • Originally hired to extend company's SCADA software UMOS package.  ? Quickly acclimated myself to fourteen separate Windows NT applications written in Delphi.  ? Remade MODBUS protocol console application to a much faster multitasking windows application with extensive diagnostic capabilities.  • As a precursor to BESTLogic+ I created a BESTprint standalone application in Delphi.  ? It read database settings file from company's relay products and presented them graphically to aid in setup and documentation.  ? Reuse of existing Visual Basic 6 code in DLL format were utilized to save time.  ? Logic diagrams were handled dynamically and reflowed for portrait or landscape modes.  • Tasked to combine two applications into one and extend their utility.  ? In parallel the hardware was also merged together, but both retained their separate processors.  ? My new application had to multitask and communicate with both sides on user command.  ? This solo effort was also completed ahead of the hardware and not changed post deployment the whole time I was with the company. Electrical Engineer US Air Force Communications Agency - Scott AFB, IL November 1996 to October 2000 • Researched/ reworked electronic messaging (Email) architecture sections of the Air Force JTA.  • Successfully completed PC and related equipment portion of Air Force Year 2000 (Y2K) program management effort.  • Created and distributed Excel spreadsheets with VBA macros for Air Force wide tracking of infrastructure assets. Later converted data via Delphi program to track individual organization progress in solving Y2K problems. Investigated vendor efforts to evaluate, test and certify computer and communication products including computers, embedded systems and telephone switches. Lead Engineer Advanced Engineering and Planning Corporation - St. Louis, MO October 1991 to November 1996 • Lead a group of engineers and analysts in performing engineering, technical and logistic review and analysis of Automatic Test Equipment (ATE) hardware and software.  • Completed a special project overseeing Built-In-Test demonstration at McDonnell Douglas Helicopter Systems resulting in reduced maintenance costs.  • Testified as software expert during informal GAO hearing in legal protest concerning automatic hydraulic test equipment. Machine Vision Engineer Midwest Integration - Fenton, MO October 1990 to October 1991 • Originally hired to solve complex robotic camera alignment problem at Parsons, Kansas Army ammunition plant.  • Provided customer demonstrations setup, programming, and checkout of machine vision systems on site.  • Designed and customized Macintosh based vision system for customer specific user interface  and real time process control, using an application specific C language.  • Programmed robot in Forth like language to depalletize chests and bags of tea from pallet to two conveyor belts based on type of tea container.  • Solved an issue on site with time stamping equipment designed with inadequate filtering on linear actuators. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Southern Illinois University - Carbondale, IL University of Missouri St. Louis - St. Louis, MO Skills .net, Delphi, Subversion, Sql server, Sql Assessments Problem Solving — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vut87jn-wa-r1icp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILL SET  10+ years of .NET, 5+ years of Delphi, 6+ years of SQL Server, 13+ years of Subversion