Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Katy, TX A bilingual and multicultural professional with diversified web and windows application design, development and testing experience. Proven reputations of strong mathematical and statistical analysis abilities. Expertise areas including:    • Waterfall & Agile software development process  • Secure web, mobile, cloud and windows application development    ASP.Net / VB.Net / Java Script / VB Script / HTML / XML / C# / C++ / SharePoint / Xcode Cloud Technology    • Crystal Report and Microsoft Reporting Services • MS SQL Server, SSIS and Oracle Database Development  • PC software / hardware support • Software or hardware debugging Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer Fort Bend County Appraisal District - Rosenberg, TX April 2018 to July 2019 Worked on application for Deed Systems and backend database. .Net Developer/Analyst SMITH COUNTY APPRAISAL DISTRICT - Tyler, TX January 2011 to January 2018 Lead the design, develop and maintain products, projects and reports to support the Property Appraisal System - MARS and S.C.A.D. Website by using ASP.Net, VB.Net, Crystal Report and backend SQL database.  • Integrated agile development process and led the requirement development with cross-functioning and prioritized features into different releases.  • Led the development of Online Protest System and windows application that works with SQL database. The project was completed one month before schedule and in use in SCAD.  • Led the development of Property Search Mobile site to access data remotely. It is the first mobile app. developed at SCAD. It helped tremendously in saving time and money during Field Appraisal.  • Led the development of Property Search in Xcode on Mac by embracing the Cloud technology and plot locations on GIS map.  • Developed Multiple Regression Analysis Application for Mass Appraisal data analysis to help visualizing data in forecasting process.  • Customized Report in Crystal or SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Wrote stored procedures to form complicated data.  • Wrote SSIS packages for data conversion and data processing.  • Trained in SharePoint. Software Developer HEARTLAND SECURITY INSURANCE GROUP - Tyler, TX February 2006 to December 2010 Design, develop and maintain the Claims System - Claims Package and C.A.S. Website by using ASP.Net, VB.Net, and backend database.  • Wrote complicated stored procedures in SQL to monitor claim status.  • Developed projects to consume InfoPath services from third party to verify information.  • Support, maintain and trouble shoot CAS website for client to file claims.  • Used SharePoint as intranet. Software Programmer Brookshire brothers ltd - Lufkin, TX August 2003 to January 2006 Designing and developing web and windows applications across different platforms to serve various business purposes, writing software code, engineering specification and user manuals, project management and implementation.  • Cash Deposit Program in .Net. Allow accounting department to monitor cash flow in real time. Application Programmer Analyst Temple-inland forest products corporation - Diboll, TX January 2000 to July 2003 Designed and developed several applications for the Human Resource department. Created training documents and manuals for the users. Implemented applications with formal project management methodology.  • Designed and developed CIP and CEP for the Human Resource department.  • Led meeting to gather user requirements.  • Used different programming languages, such as ASP, Visual Basic, VB Script, Java, Java Script, PL/SQL and Perl.  • PC Software/hard trouble shooting.  • Supported several other systems/applications, including eCounsel, Drivers' tracking system, TIFPC Phone Web, Procurement Vendor Search, TIN Issue log etc. Graduate Teaching Assistant stephen f. austin state university - Nacogdoches, TX 1997 to 2000 Assist teaching different levels of computer science, mathematics and statistics classes  • Graded projects, papers and exams.  • Tutored undergraduate students in various classes.  • Hardware/ software troubleshooting in the computer lab.  • Designed and maintained school homepage in the career center. Software Engineer Peking Instrument - CN 1993 to 1996 Designed and developed several different HR and Payroll database applications using C++, DB2.  • Designed and developed the "Personal & Wage Management System" and "Contract Management System".  • Involved in the whole SDLC.  • Trained of end-users, system installation and maintaining. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Stephen F. Austin State University - Nacogdoches, TX Master of Science in Statistics Stephen F. Austin State University - Nacogdoches, TX Bachelor of Science in Computer Science South Central Institute of Nationality Skills ASP (10+ years), database. (10+ years), Microsoft SharePoint (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), C#, MVC, .Net, WPF, WCF Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS    Languages: C#/C++, VB/VB .Net, ASP/ASP .Net, VBScript/JavaScript, SQL, JAVA, XML, HTML, PASCAL, FORTRAN, PERL, SHELL.  Environments: WIN9X, WINNT/2000/XP/2003 server, VMS, UNIX, iOS.  Databases: MS SQL Server, Oracle, Relational Database, Access, MS Visual FoxPro, and DBASE.  Networks: Internet, TCP/IP, Sockets, LAN, Novell, and Cloud.  Machines: SUN, DEC, VAX, PC, MACINTOSH, and Mac.  Applications: Macromedia Dreamweaver, Macromedia Flash, Paint Shop Pro, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft SQL Reporting Services, Crystal Report, Microsoft Project, Outlook, Microsoft SharePoint, Xcode.