Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Orion System Integrators - Software Engineer Pleasanton, CA • Java/J2EE professional having 12+ years of IT experience in developing, delivering of software using wide variety of technologies in all phases of the Development and Implementation, Maintenance and Support. Expertise in Java technologies, proven ability in project based leadership, teamwork and good communication skills.  • Extensive experience in the Banking, Custom and Excise, Insurance, Warehouse (WMS) and MIS domain  • Expertise in complete Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) process that includes Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing.  • Expertise with Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture using Spring/Struts framework.  • Experience in developing enterprise and web applications using Spring, Hibernate, iBatis, Struts, Web Services (SOAP and REST-JSON), Servlets, JSP, Spring-webflow/MVC/Boot/ORM and EJB.  • Good experience in applying Waterfall, Agile (SCRUM) and RUP (Rational Unified Process) process in projects.  • Expertise in applying various core J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Front Controller, Value Objects, DAO etc.  • Worked with Application/Web servers like IBM WebSphere, BEA Weblogic, Apache Tomcat  • Good experience in Database servers - DynamoDB, Hive, Cassandra, Oracle, DB2, MySQL  • Implemented UML modeling diagrams such as Class Diagrams, Component Diagrams, Package Diagram, Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams.  • Expertise in developing web applications using IDE tools like Eclipse, IntelliJ, RAD (Rational Application Developer), RSA (Rational Software Architect).  • Expertise in automation of deployment of J2EE applications using Maven, uBuild/uDeploy, Hudson, Jenkins  • Experience in bug tracking tools like Jira, HP Quality Center, Clear Quest and StarTeam  • Experience in Source code version/management tools like GIT, Perforce, ClearCase, StarTeam, Rational Team Concert, Jira  • Extensive experience in working with the Customers to gather required information to analyze debug and provide data fix or code fix for technical problems, build service patch for each version release and unit testing and providing Technical Solution documents for the Users. Work Experience Software Engineer Orion Systems Integrators - Mountain View, CA July 2016 to Present Client: Intuit Inc  Project Title: FACT (Intuit Commerce Platform)  Project Description: Current Project  FACT provides eCommerce services to enable the shop and buy experience in-product, marketing sites and via contact center application globally. The objective is to provide global commerce instance exposing services enabling order capture, order fulfillment orchestration, management of customer commerce profiles etc.    Deliver technical design and implementation of major features with high quality, fault tolerant and reliable way that will handle e-Commerce functionalities for the company at high-scale, refine implementation based on operational performance, troubleshoot and debug production issues. Lead the gathering of functional requirements, develop technical specifications, project & test plans Resolve defects/bugs during QA testing, pre-production, production, and post-release deployments work with various Intuit teams to drive great results.    I contributed into the folloiwng applications part of Intuit Commerce Platform.  1. webs-account (REST WS)  2. webs-catalog (REST WS)  3. webs-entitlement (REST WS)  4. webs-order (REST WS)  5. webs-voucher (REST WS)  6. Elastic Path (eCommerce engine/platform)  7. data-integrity (Schedular application to check the consistency of commerce data)    Environment: Java 8, SpringBoot 1.5, Jersey (JAX-RS) 2.25, Spring cloud, Amazon RDS MySql 5.6, Amazon DynamoDB, Tomcat 8.5, Quartz 2.2, Swagger 1.5, Mockito 1.10, GitHub, Maven 3.5, Eclipse 4.9, drools 5.4, MySqlWorkbench, Jenkins, Postman, Splunk, AWS CloudFormation, AWS cloud, Elastic Path 6.17, IntelliJ Idea, Agile/Scrum methodology etc.    Project Title: Marketing Automation  Project Description:  The goal of Marketing Automation is to integrate marketing-related data from various sources into Oracle Eloqua and deliver automated multichannel customer experience (email, social ads, SMS/PUSH, web forms) while providing customer behavioral transparency between Sales and Marketing. Marketing Automation is the compilation of multiple programs to enable Marketing and Analytics to run highly relevant campaigns at the right moment to better engage with prospects and customers.    The Marketing Automation application is an Intuit internal application whose main function is to run scheduled jobs to ingest marketing data from internal and external data sources in the forms of databases and flat files through SFTP and to push them into Oracle Eloqua. The Intuit marketers then can run marketing campaigns from Eloqua based on the data provided by the Marketing Automation application.    I worked on design, development and testing of these following applications to build Intuit Marketing Automation Digital Platform:  1. MDServices (Marketing Data Service): MDS is a Spring based REST web service that retrieves data from Hive (Intuit Analytics Cloud (IAC) Hadoop cluster within Intuit Hosting Platform (IHP)).  2. MDSDataProcessor: This SpringBoot app is a client of MDServices that places the data files on PFTS (Partner File Transfer Service) to be ingested by Oracle Eloqua running in automated way every day at scheduled time.  3. MADataWarehouse: This SpringBoot (with quartz scheduler and multi-threading) app pulls Eloqua data (Contact, Activity, Campaign, Custom Data Object etc.) via Eloqua REST and BULK API and stores them in Oracle DB. The Intuit Analytics Cloud (IAC) team retrieves these data and ingest into Hive.  4. MQLServices (Marketing Qualified Lead Service): This SpringBoot REST app pull Oracle Eloqua data and publishes MQL message into ActiveMQ topics, which is consumed by a CRMS consumer.    Environment: Java 8, Spring 4.1, SpringBoot 1.4, Oracle 12c, Apache Hive 1.1.0-cdh5.11, Hadoop 2.6, Tomcat 8.0, Quartz 2.2, Apache Spark 2.2, Swagger 1.3, Mockito 1.10, GIT version control, Maven 3.5, Eclipse-Neon 4.6, Toad 12.x, Jenkins, Postman, Splunk, Zookeeper etc. Orion Systems Integrators March 2015 to Present Sr. Software Developer [Tech Lead] Orion Systems Integrators - San Francisco, CA August 2015 to June 2016 Client: Wells Fargo  Project Title: PWP (PSG's Watching Production)  Project Description:  PWP is a modular, multi-threaded, high-performance log management and analytic tool for WellsFargo banking application. It provides persistent, searchable, scalable logging infrastructure. It enables client/user to transform logs from any source and system into one unified structure for complete understanding of application behavior and end user experience.  Responsibilities:  • Develop, test and document PWP application using Spring Boot framework, Cassandra, Maven build tool, Git version control, Tomcat, Cassandra DB (logging/reporting), Oracle Java platform and Eclipse Integrated Development Environment. Integrate log4j tool for logging.  • Use Spring Boot and REST WS.  • Use Cassandra for Logging/Reporting data.  • Use Git for code management  • Involve in code reviews and production bug/defect analysis  • Work closely with the project team including Quality Assurance team and other development teams.    Environment: Java 8, Spring-Boot, Tomcat, Cassandra, Junit, Eclipse, Maven, Git, Putty, Linux etc.    Project Title: Global Wire  Project Description:  Global Wire provides consistent global features to our customers as it relates to payment types, currencies, foreign exchange and settlement features that is consistent across the payment channels. It is a wires payment application for corporate and financial users for creating Domestic and International wires. The objective of the overall project is to develop 'globalized' features within the Wholesale Payments' CEO (Commercial Electronic Office) application portfolio.    Responsibilities:  • Prepare Technical Design Document (including High Level Design Document, Low Level Design Document) for new business requirement.  • Perform research and impact analysis of change requests (enhancement) and provide technical approach using Object Oriented Programming methodology.  • Develop, test and document Global Wire application using Agile Development methodology, Spring framework, Hibernate, Oracle DB, Java Script, Maven build tool, Tortoise SVN version control, Weblogic application server, Cassandra DB (logging/reporting), Oracle Java platform and Eclipse Integrated Development Environment. Integrate log4j tool for logging and JMS API to send/receive messages to/from Queue to communicate between project modules/components.  • Use Java Script(AngulaJS) for Front-End development.  • Use Srping(Web-MVC,ORM,SOAP-REST) for Back-End development.  • Use Hibernate-Oracle for ORM implementation with Spring framework.  • Use the SOAP UI tool to test the web service as a client.  • Use Tortoise SVN for code management  • Involve in code reviews and production bug/defect analysis  • Improve performance using Dynatrace and Introscope analysis tool and actively involve in code reviews and production bug/defect fixing.  • Work closely with the project team including Quality Assurance team and other development teams.  • Actively involve in releases and production support and Responsible for active monitoring of the Production system in case of any issues/concerns.    Environment: Java, Spring, Web Logic, Oracle, Hibernate, Junit, SOA, Web Services, WSDL, Agile, Eclipse, SOAP, UML, XML, XSLT, JDBC, HTML, JSP, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript(AngularJS), Maven, SVN, Putty, SoapUI, HP Quality Center, Nexus, Anthill etc. Sr. Software Developer Orion Systems Integrators - Bellevue, WA March 2015 to August 2015 Client: Ericsson  Project Description:  T-Mobile's Uprising Program is a single platform based Customer Experience and Billing (CEB) solution and delivers a complete new BSS (Business Support System) stack and replace the existing Amdocs Samson solution. Program will help simplify T-Mobile's BSS architecture with a High-Available, Integrated, and Scalable platform, which are currently being offered by multiple systems and different BSS infrastructures in T-Mobile and MetroPCS    I was working on WSIL (Web Services Integration Layer) module which will provide an abstraction layer between the upstream system and the Ericsson solution. The WSIL will expose Business-Service to realize defined use cases to upstream applications. WSIL is SOA Component within Ericsson stack. All communication to T-Mobile SOA services are initiated through the WSIL. WSIL layer will be realized via middleware solution to cater to the required functionality of message consumption, decomposition and orchestration.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared System Design Specification (Interface Specification Document, High Level Design Document, Low Level Design Document) within the existing system architecture.  • Develop, test and document Service Oriented Architecture Solution (using Java/J2ee technology)  • Create and ValidateWSDL and WADL using IGNITE tool.  • Use Java-J2EE patterns like Business Delegate, Data Access Objects and Factory patterns.  • Bug/Incident handling and resolution by using production support tools HP ALM and HP Quality Center.  • Perform the research and impact analysis of Change requests and provide the technical approach for approval.  • Implement Change requests and tested for any possible exception/error/ breakage of existing flow.  • Involve in mentoring team in technical discussions and Technical reviews.  • Involve in code reviews and verifying bug analysis reports.  • Actively involve in releases and production support.    Environment: JDK 1.5/1.6, Spring, Hibernate, WebSphere Application Server, JMS, Oracle 11g, IGNITE, SVN version control, Sharedpoint, HP ALM, HP Quality Center, Maven, Hudson/Jenkins, Eclipse, Toad DB client, Putty, SoapUI etc. Sr. Application Developer IBM - Newark, DE May 2010 to March 2015 Client: Bank of America  Project Description:  eProduct catalog application (Middleware application) is a central repository which contains ecommerce-specific product data (Such as, Checking, Savings, Certificate of Deposits(CDs), Individual Retirement Accounts(IRAs), Credit Cards, Affinity Cards etc.) that the ecommerce channels sell and service over the web. The goal for the target eProduct catalog is to fetch all product details (Say, product attributes, features, rates, fees, rules, eligibilities) from multiple system or repository and apply business process before rendering the optimized data to other service components/clients. This will allow the client application to get all different products data from single application than hitting all the system of repository which in turn boost the performance.    eProduct catalog is divided into two parts.  1. eProduct Webservice (SOAP + REST)  It renders the product data through SOAP and REST webservice to client application.  2. eProductloader (Standalone application)  It loads all product data from multiple System of Repository every night and apply business logic to polish in proper format before making available for eProduct webservice.    Responsibilities:  eProduct Webservice (SOAP + REST)  • Involved with client's business and technical team to understand the requirement  • Researched about client requirement than propose the technical solution to client.  • Prepared Technical documents (HLD and LLD)  • Involved in estimation and staffing with Tech manager.  • Delivered new and complex high quality solutions in Agile (SCRUM) methodology to clients in response to varying business requirements.  • Involved for managing scope, planning, tracking, change control, aspects of the project.  • Designed and developed various application modules.  • Preparing the Proof of Concepts.  • Developed the Job scheduler (Quartz) and Rule engine (Drools) API to invoke the automated daily cache refresh and business rule.  • Developed SOAP webservice using Websphere SOAP engine, Spring, Hibernate, RAD(Rational Application Developer) IDE, Dozer, Oracle 11g, JMS, WebSphere application server etc.  • Developed REST Webservice using Apache CFX Framework, Jackson (JSON), Spring, Hibernate, TOAD, SoapUI, WebSphere application server etc.  • Involved in creating Dependency Injection using Spring Framework to provide dependencies across several tiers.  • Implemented the Dyna-Cache using dyna-config which fetch the configuration properties from database and refresh the product data in cache at run time (without re-starting application).  • Used Spring's HibernatTransactionManager , Value Objects and POJO to develop persistent classes following ORM principles and Extensively worked on Hibernate database mapping.  • Used JMS(Java Messaging Service) to send the application error information to XDASH system to audit the log.  • Used Maven tool to build the application and resolve its dependencies.  • Used DevOps feature to automate build and verification of application in time interval.  • Analyzed performance using DynaTrace and Introscope.  • Used SoapUI project for webservice testing.  • Implemented Junit test case to test the application services.  • Used Log4j for application logging and debugging.  • Oops and log monitoring splunk and preparing reports on the performance of Apps and services.  • Used the SSL security for webservices by using X509 certificate in Websphere Application Server.  • Adhered the principles of OWASP (say, Sql Injection) in eProduct WS.  • Did the code review of developers code.  • Involved in extensive coding and bug fixing.  • Integrating the Code Developed by Offshore.  • Actively involved in production release and production support for its certification.    eProductloader (Standalone application)  • Evaluated of BRD (Business Requirement Document) given to us by the client.  • Prepared High-level design and Low level design documents from BRD.  • Developed Sequence diagrams and Class diagrams.  • Created the Project Structure using Maven archtype based on my design.  • Generating .hbm.xml for eProductloader DB schema.  • Used Hibernate to develop persistent classes following ORM principles.  • Developed Hibernate configuration files for establishing data base connection and Hibernate mapping files based on POJO classes.  • Used Hibernate to develop persistent classes and transaction logic following ORM principles.  • Deployed spring configuration files such as application context, application resources and application files.  • Involved in creating Dependency Injection using Spring Framework to provide dependencies across several tiers.  • Developed SOAP Webservice client application to call multiple System of Repository webservice.  • Developed Service and DAO model using Spring, Hibernate, RAD, Junit, SoapUI, Toad, Oracle 11g etc.  • Implemented Multi-threaded code to call SOR webservice asynchronously using ExecutorService-Callable (Java Concurrency Framework).  • Developed Soap webservices using WebSphere SOAP engine to generate ws stubs for Client Interaction.  • Used Autosys scheduler to invoke eProductloader service everynight in order to load the data from multiple system of repository (warehouse).  • Involved in JUnit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases  • Used Log4j for application logging and debugging.  • Involved in mentoring team in technical discussions and Technical reviews.  • Involved in code reviews and verifying bug analysis reports.  • Working with Perforce to maintain the Project Artifacts.  • Participating in Code Reviews and Walkthroughs.  • Integrating the Code Developed by Offshore.  • Trouble shooting the issues in Dev, Test and QA Environments.  • Conducting the Demo's to the Customer  • Actively involved in production release and production support for its certification.    Environment: JDK 1.5/1.6, Spring, Hibernate, WebSphere Application Server, JMS, Oracle 10g/11g, Dozer, Perforce Version Control, Rational Team Concert, Maven, uBuild/Hudson/Jenkins, Jira, Quality Center, Rational Application Developer (RAD), Toad DB client, Putty etc. IBM August 2006 to March 2015 Software Engineer IBM - Pune, Maharashtra July 2008 to April 2010 India  Client: Belgium Government  Project Description:  PLDA (Paperless Douanes et Accises - Its English translation is "Paperless Customs and Excises ") deals with submitting and processing of declarations electronically. The PLDA project enables all companies to electronically submit and receive approval of their import and export declarations through the PLDA system. It increases processing speed and performance while reducing operational costs. The aim of Paperless Customs and Excises (Belgium Government - European Commission) application is to collect, treat and process goods data which are carried out from Belgium, introduced in Belgium or carried out through Belgium. These data are supplied by the Economic Operators (Traders/Transporter) involved at the flow of goods and would be paired with financial settlement. This application helps to reduce the paperwork which in turn expedite the whole process to facilitate its users and also conform to the instruction from European Commission and the Belgium national and community legislation.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared SDD ( Software design documents) for enhancements and implementation through releases.  • Utilized in-depth knowledge of functional and Technical experience in PLDA Financial component like maintaining of financial transactions, customer account details, manage & search Debt, term, unlinked payment, reimbursement, remittance, reporting etc.  • Involved for development of Web module in delivering solution to our customer using Spring, Struts, Tiles, JSP, Spring-webflow, iBatis, Weblogic, DB2, JMS etc.  • Delivered new and complex high quality solutions to clients working on PLDA Webservice using B2B message (EDI-EDIFACT) and XML message.  • Used Java-J2EE patterns like Model View Controller (MVC), Business Delegate, Data Access Objects and Factory patterns.  • Coded in Jsp, Spring- Webflow and developed the JSP page.  • Employed iBATIS as a persistence mechanism to implement object relational mapping for interacting with backend  Db2 database.  • Configured OpenDS LDAP with Weblogic for application security in Lower environments for code development.  • Involved in designing, developing and deploying necessary stored procedures for report generation.  • Bug/Incident handling and resolution by using production support tools StarTeam and ClearCase.  • Did the research and impact analysis of Change requests and provided the technical approach for approval.  • Implemented Change requests and tested for any possible exception/error/ breakage of existing flow.  • Involved in mentoring team in technical discussions and Technical reviews.  • Provided the demo of the functionality I implemented to client and testing team.  • Involved in code reviews and verifying bug analysis reports.  • implemented the new change request and defect fixing in the project.  • Actively involved in releases and production support.    Environment: JDK 1.4/1.5, Struts (Servlet, JSP, Tiles), Spring, Webflow, iBatis, Weblogic 8.1, JMS, EJB, DB2 9.1, OpenDS LDAP, FileZilla FTP Client/Server, StarTeam, ClearCase, Eclipse etc. Software Engineer IBM - Gurgaon, Haryana August 2006 Client: Switzerland Government  Project Description:  The aim of this Social Insurance application is to provide the centralized system connected with multiple sub system to run the government insurance facilities for its citizen. It contains the realization of different applications for the needs of the Swiss social insurance and the integration of several legacy and external systems. The VISTA application uses packaged software for realizing special functionality. I was Involved in the development of FZ (Family Allowances) application of Vista Project in both server and client side implementation.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements gathering, analysis, detailed design, developing/coding, testing and implementation of the components and maintenance Support.  • Used RSA for designing UML diagrams and code transformation as part of the functional and technical design of the application interface.  • Developed solutions for diverse programming scenarios in Java, employing Object Oriented Programming (OOP's) concepts such as: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction.  • Created Application Layer, Business Layer and Integration (Data Access) Layer Classes to implement the service.  • Extensively involved in developing components for Business layer and Data Layer.  • Extensively used the Spring Core for Inversion of Control (IOC), Application Context and ORM modules of Spring Framework in the project.  • Deployed spring configuration files such as application context, application resources and application files.  • Involved in creating Dependency Injection using Spring Framework to provide dependencies across several tiers.  • Employed Hibernate ORM tool for interacting with backend DB2 database by developing Hibernate mapping configuration files to provide the relation between java objects and database tables.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Data Transfer Object (DTO/VO), Data Access Object (DAO), Service Locator and Singleton.  • Used EJB as session façade for application services.  • Used Maven tool to build the application for deployment in WAS (WebSphere Application Server) and resolve its dependencies.  • Performed the initial unit testing tests using JUnit during the development of code and functional testing of the business logic  • Used Log4j for application logging and debugging.  • Involved extensively in coding and bug fixing.  • Delivered new and complex high quality solutions to clients in response to varying business requirements with the suggestive approach.  • Responsible for implementing the new change request and defect fixing in the project.  • Provide the demo of the functionality I implemented to client, testing team and to senior management.  • Provide the technical and functional support to the testing team.    Environment: JDK 1.4, spring, Hibernate, SWT (Standard Widget Toolkit), Rational Software Architecture 6.0, Rational ClearCase Fat Client V7.0, Rational ClearCase Remote Client V7.0, Rational ClearQuest, RPM (Rational Portfolio Manager), DB2, WAS, etc. Education Master's Skills Eclipse (10+ years), J2ee (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Hibernate (6 years), Intellij idea (2 years), Spring (10+ years), Jms (5 years), Jsp (4 years), Servlets, Struts, Application analysis, Application development, Git, Hive, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json Additional Information Technical skills  Operating Systems macOS 10.13, Window 7, Windows 9X / 2000 / XP, Linux, AIX  Language Java, JavaScript, C++, PL/SQL  J2EE technologies and Framework  Spring, Spring Boot, JPA, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Struts, Webflow, iBatis, JMS, Dozer, Spark, Apache CXF, LOG4J, JSON, Java Concurrency Framework    ORM Framework Hibernate, iBatis  WebService Designs/Architectures REST (Representational State Transfer), SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol)  Markup & Scripting Language XML, HTML  DBMS DynamoDB, MySql 5.6, Hive 1.1, Cassandra 2.x, Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c, DB2 8.x / 9.x  Web & Application Servers WebSphere 6.x/7.x/8.x, Weblogic 8.x/10.x, Tomcat 4.x/5.x/8.0  Application Development Tools  Eclipse, RAD (Rational Application Developer), RSA (Rational Software Architect), Edit plus, TOAD DB Client, Clear Quest, HP Quality Center, IGNITE, Autosys (Scheduler), IntelliJ IDEA    Version control Tools GIT, SVN, Perforce (P4), Clear Case, StarTeam  Build Engine/Management Tools Maven, uBuild/uDeploy, Hudson, Jenkins, Anthill, Nexus  Application Analysis Tools Introscope, DynaTrace, Splunk  Project Management Tools JIRA, RPM (Rational Portfolio Manager), RTC (Rational Team Concert), HP ALM (Application Lifecycle Management)  Testing Tools/Processes  Postman, SoapUI, FireFox Poster, JUnit Testing, CIT (Component Integration Testing), SIT (System Integration Testing), Quality Center Testing, Jmeter 5.x    Software Development Processes/Methodologies Agile, Rational Unified Process, Waterfall