Development Lead Development Lead Development Lead - Change Healthcare Tulsa, OK Over 18 years of professional experience in Microsoft .Net technologies, majorly in web based application design, development, support and maintenance, played different roles as developer/engineer, lead, technical manager and technical architect.  • Expertise in Microsoft Technologies, .Net Framework, .Net Core, C#.net, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, MVC, WCF, Javacript, SQL Server, SharePoint 2010/2013, SiteCore Commerce Server and Oracle.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Design, design, development and implementation of Service Oriented Architecture, Microservices, RESTful WEB API, SOAP Webservices and N-tier windows and web application.  • Hands on experience in Web application development using JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, BootStrap, Node JS, HTML5, Infragistics UI.  • Sound knowledge and hands on experiences in design, implementation and support of large scale high availability applications in microservice architecture with complex integrations with other systems including internal enterprise application and external third party vendor systems deployed in multi-datacenter and multi-cloud environments.  • Experienced in planning and setting up DevOps, CI/CD tools for build generation, deployment, environment infrastructure management for complex customer facing high availability application environment using tools like Jenkins, Chef, python scripts and custom applications/scripts.  • Database design and management of SQL Server, MySQL in AWS-RDS, NoSQL databases MongoDB, Casandra and Riak.  • Experience in implementing messaging queues (MQ) with IBM MQ, Rabbit MQ and Kafka Queues.  • Knowledge in Azure, AWS and GCP cloud platforms.  • Well versed in Agile Scrum Process model and Waterfall methodologies.  • Experience in Preparing Technical Design HLD, LLD and Use case Documents.  • Experience in Entity Framework, Enterprise Library and LINQ  • Experience in configuration and development of custom web parts and event receivers for Microsoft SharePoint Online BPOS-D cloud environment  • Strong knowledge in MVC, MVP and MVVM architecture Implementation.  • Sound knowledge and hands on experience in defining and implementing GTM and CDN caching with Akamai.  • Analyzing Requirements and Designing the Functionality of the application.  • Experienced in planning and identify Automation strategies and create newer design architecture approaches & methodologies in line with evolving industry trends and tool/technology availability for implementing automation.  • Experienced in setting up and leading production support process, setting up monitoring tools, define and managing SLAs and well versed in ITIL/ITSM processes and tools for Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Configuration Management and Knowledge Management.  • Experienced in designing and implementing automation tools to monitor performance parameters of production applications and initiate auto-recovery steps and actions without manual intervention.  • Proven capabilities in being self-motivated performer and team player in large and distributed development environments.  • Excellent leadership qualities, aggressive team player, positive, attitude, adhere to strict deadlines, flexible personality, strong communication skill and work ethic. Work Experience Development Lead Change Healthcare May 2019 to Present Project Title: File Manager  Tools & Technologies: .Net Core. 2.2, ASP.Net C#.Net,, MVC, Entity Framework, SQL Server, Visual Studio 2019, JavaScript/JQuery, BootStrap, DataTables.Net, web api, Microservices, RabbitMQ, Jira and Git.    Description  FileManager is a file processing system with an approval workflow and integrates with multiple sources and applications of Change Healthcare. The system is capable of handling different file types and file processing actions, which can be configured through a configuration tool. A configurable workflow with an approval process, SLAs, SLA alert email is also in the scope. This application provides WebAPIs to post files, processing and retrieving data by other systems. The application integrates with different internal applications and external third-party applications.  Responsibilities/Contributions  • Requirements gathering, conducting workshops with business users and other system engineering teams to identify all use cases and document the requirement.  • Develop proof of concepts and design documents.  • Conduct grooming sessions with other developers, QA teams and Business Analysts to fine tune the requirements and finalize sprint deliverables.  • Design, document and develop API specifications and standards.  • Lead the development team to implement the application and provided technical guidance.  • Developed the user interface with razor view, jquery and bootstrap.  • Collaborate with performance engineering team and infrastructure teams to execute performance test, analyze test results and logs and identify areas needing improvements and provide solutions. Technical Architect Wipro Limited March 2011 to May 2019 Project Title: MCCP Canada (Multi Channel Contact Platform), DotCom US, DotCom Mexico  Tools & Technologies: .Net 4.5, ASP.Net, MVC, C#.Net, SQL Server, Visual Studio, SiteCore Commerce Server (earlier Microsoft Commerce Server), WCF, JavaScript, Web Services, BizTalk, XML, XSLT, Enterprise Library, REST APIs, AngularJS, IBM MQ, RabbitMQ, Kafka Queues, SOLR, Jenkins, VSTS, Grafana, Kibana, Splunk, Azure, Microservices, JIRA    Project Description  Multi Channel Contract Platform (MCCP) is an e-commerce framework developed for BestBuy Canada. This framework mainly uses SiteCore Commerce Server to achieve the e-commerce functionalities and integrates with different third party systems and services. The platform is designed in such a way that different websites can be plugged in to this common framework and reduce the development effort for developing new brand or regional web sites for BestBuy.    Responsibilities/Contributions  • Architected the solution to automate the post deployment validation of DC and Cloud applications.  • Developed a working proof of concept application to test the feasibility and prepared the architecture diagrams and design documents.  • Lead the development team to implement the application and provided technical guidance.  • Developed the user interface with razor view, jquery and bootstrap.  • Collaborate with different product teams and release teams to understand the application details and deployment strategies of various applications to come up with a standard solution which cater different types and applications and systems.  • Responsible for identifying automation opportunities and propose solutions in business processes, reporting, auditing and proactive monitoring.  • Collaborate with performance engineering team and infrastructure teams to execute performance test, analyze test results and logs and identify areas needing improvements and provide solutions.  • Design solutions to migrate legacy systems in DC to the new platform in the AWS cloud environment.  • Prepare scaling up strategies to prepare the applications to handle high load scenarios.  • Participate in enterprise level architecture review meetings to review architecture changes, new feature implementation, DC to cloud migration and legacy applications decommissioning impact analysis.  • Design and implement enhancement request and bug fixes.  • Perform detailed impact analysis for change requests and enhancements.  • Design and implemented a high availability integration module to integrate the customer facing application to various enterprise systems and third-party applications with high availability and fallback logic using WCF and XSLT transformation.  • Developed standalone windows services to receive and post data between different source and destination applications.  • Customized SiteCore Commerce Server business tools and developed pipeline components to achieve extended functionalities.  • Written stored procedures, triggers and user defined functions in SQL Server.  • Performed code reviews and fine tuning code for better performance and memory management.  • Developed WebAPIs to expose data to different consumers and also as part of disintegrating the functionalities to Microservices architecture.  • Worked in setting up automated build generation and deployment using Jenkin.  • Creating release notes and provide knowledge transfer to support teams and business users.  • Leading Application Support and Maintenance of production environment including Incident Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management, Problem Management and Configuration Management.  • Triage production issues and implement code fix and data fixes as required.  • Conduct performance test, analyze test results and application logs and implement performance improvement fixes.  • Design and development of auto recovery tools using python scripts which listens to different API endpoints and alert emails, and execute standard recovery actions. Develop integration modules to integrate with different third party tools and applications like Service Now, HipChat, Jira, Splunk, Kibana, Grafana, Sensu, Amazon Web Services (AWS) CloudWatch, Graphite, RabbitMQ, IBM MQ and Kafka to fetch data and also to post updates and actions. Technical Lead Wipro Limited November 2010 to March 2011 Project Title: Metadata Autotagging for Document Upload/Search Enhancements  Tools & Technologies: .SharePoint 2010, ASP.Net, C#.Net, Visual Studio 2010, .Net Framework 3.5., Javascript, JQery, HTML, XML, Microsoft SharePoint Online (BPOS-D) Cloud Environment.    Project Description  Kraft Foods search strategy contains several functionalities that empower end users to quickly find relevant information within their enterprise content repository, so each document that will be uploaded must be tagged with custom metadata properties which will be available in the user's profile.  A custom event receiver assembly is developed which will fetch the user's profile properties and tag it along with document's custom column of type Managed Metadata. SharePoint configurations like managed metadata service and taxonomy term store management, creation of custom columns, content type editing and publishing, content type synchronization etc. were also done as part of this project. The coding was done with Microsoft specified standards, review was done using MSOCAF tool and manual review was also done by Microsoft Teams before deploying it to the production. Power Shell scripts for importing term sets to the taxonomy term store from csv file, solution deployment and feature activation were also developed.    Responsibilities/Contributions  • Design and implemented an event receiver assembly to automatically tag the metadata when uploading document.  • Design and implemented an event receiver assembly to enhance the search result of people directory and export functionalities.  • Developed custom web parts to enhance the people search result to provide additional sorting and restricting specific columns in the result.  • Setting up the development and test environment as per BPOS-D specification.  • Preparation of HLD and getting approval from MSO team.  • SharePoint 2010 configurations of central administration, site collection and site, prepare detailed documentation for the configurations to be done.  • Perform code review and build deliverables using MSOCAF tool.  • Developed PowerShell scripts of SharePoint package deployment.  • Preparation of deployment guide document and generating build package that includes solution artifacts, deployment guide, installation scripts, test results and review results in specified folder structure. Lead Developer Wipro Limited May 2010 to October 2010 Project Title: ESIC - Insurance Module  Tools & Technologies: ASP.Net, C#.Net, MySQL, Visual Studio 2008, .Net Framework 3.5, Windows Workflow Foundation, WCF, LINQ, WCSF, WSSF, JavaScript, Web Services, Enterprise Library 4.0    Project Description  ESIC project aimed at improving healthcare services to its beneficiaries by providing online facilities to employers and insured people for registration, payment of premium and disbursement of cash benefits.  The Insurance module of the ESIC project was having performance issues which was found at the later stages and decided to do a thorough review and of the entire insurance module and implement changes as per finding to improve performance of the application.    Responsibilities/Contributions  • Perform detailed analysis to identify performance bottlenecks and implement improvement suggestions.  • Worked with Microsoft architects to implement performance improvement suggestions and architecture changes.  • Developed a data access layer to perform database operations with MySQL database and converted complex LINQ queries to SQL queries.  • Developed lot of reusable components and user controls.  • Implemented number of web forms with Ajax controls.  • Implemented lot of client side validation and business logic with Javascript.  • Worked with performance engineering teams to execute performance tests.  • Creating release notes and provide knowledge transfer to support teams and business users. Lead Developer Outsource Partners Intl February 2008 to April 2010 Project Title: Customer Exposure and Stress Application (CES)  Tools & Technologies: ASP.Net, C#.Net, Oracle 10i, Visual Studio 2005, .Net Framework 2.0, Infragistics 2008, Stellent Document Management System, XML, JavaScript, Web Services    Project Description  Customer Exposure and Stress (CES) is a web based application to manage the customer details and monitor the customer credit exposure. This application is integrated with the AS400 system to get the basic customer and contracts information, Stellent document management system to store the documents attached through the CES application, VESON voyage estimator to calculate the voyage estimates, Immarex and Baultic exchanges price database to get the future market prices for shipping routes. This application calculates the Mark to Market (MTM) exposure, Accounts Payables/Receivables (AP/AR) exposure and stressed exposure for paper trades and physical trades between the Cargill and its customers.    Responsibilities/Contributions  • Involved in requirement gathering and analysis, developing prototype and getting approval from business users.  • Developed oracle packages, user defined functions, triggers, views.  • Implemented webforms, user controls and master pages using Infragistics controls.  • Developed lot of reusable components and user controls.  • Implemented lot of client side validation and business logic with Javascript.  • Worked with performance engineering teams to execute performance tests.  • Creating release notes and provide knowledge transfer to support teams.  • Involved in preparing training manuals and giving training to end users. Lead Developer Outsource Partners Intl June 2007 to January 2008 Project Title: Vessel Specification and Performance Evaluation (VSPE)  Tools & Technologies: ASP.Net, C#.Net, Oracle 10i, Visual Studio 2005, .Net Framework 2.0, Infragistics 2008, XML, JavaScript, Web Services.    Project Description  Vessel Specification and Performance Evaluation (VSPE) system is a web based application to evaluate and monitor the performance of the vessels (ships) chartered by Cargill. It will provide the facility to maintain a database and history of all vessels those have been hired so far and allows addition/modification/deletion of all vessel related data. In addition to vessel details, it also stores information like Regions, Ports, Operators, Cleaning agencies, Weather Service Routing Companies (WSRC) etc. and based on these available data the application performs various calculation like economic speed, dead weight, bunker requirement of MDO, LSFO, HSFO etc. for a specific voyage.    Responsibilities/Contributions  • Involved in requirement gathering and analysis, developing prototype and getting approval from business users.  • Developed oracle packages, user defined functions, triggers, views.  • Implemented webforms, user controls and master pages using Infragistics controls.  • Developed lot of reusable components and user controls.  • Implemented lot of client side validation and business logic with Javascript.  • Worked with performance engineering teams to execute performance tests.  • Creating release notes and provide knowledge transfer to support teams.  • Involved in preparing training manuals and giving training to end users.  • Developed windows services to process data received from third party service providers. Developer Outsource Partners International January 2007 to May 2007 Project Title: Concierge V2.0  Tools & Technologies: ASP.Net, C#.Net, SQL Server 2005i, Visual Studio 2005, .Net Framework 2.0, Infragistics 2008, XML, JavaScript    Project Description  Concierge V2.0 is a new version of the existing application which is re-engineered from an existing ASP application to ASP.Net technology with many new additional features and functionalities. This application is integrated with OPI's human resource information system (HRIS) for employee details and Microsoft Dynamics Great Planes system.    Responsibilities/Contributions  • Involved in requirement gathering and analysis, developing prototype and getting approval from business users.  • Deigned and developed webforms and user controls.  • Written stored procedures, user defined functions and triggers.  • Creating release notes and provide knowledge transfer to support teams.  • Involved in preparing training manuals and giving training to end users. Senior Developer Mortgage IT April 2006 to December 2006 Project Title: Accounts Payable Approval Workflow System  Tools & Technologies: Bizflow 9.0, JSP, SQL Server, VB Script, JavaScript, OnBase document management system, AccPac accounting software.    Project Description  Accounts Payable Approval Workflow system is a web based workflow application developed using workflow tool called Bizflow. This application has three different approval workflows with 6 levels of approval. The processes are designed using Bizflow process designer and the user interface and data entry forms are designed and developed using bizflow Forms designer and Bizcoves. SQL Server 2000 is used as the database and the reports are developed using JSP. This application is integrated with OnBase imaging system and AccPac accounting software.    Responsibilities/Contributions  • Involved in requirement gathering and analysis, developing prototype and getting approval from business users.  • Extensively worked on designing complex workflow processes with multiple levels of approval, deadline and escalations using Bizflow process designer.  • Developed interface application and windows service programs to encrypt and upload data to FTP location, download, decrypt and insert invoice and check request details to the Accounting system.  • Developed application forms using Bizflow Forms Designer.Developed custom reports and pages using JSP.  • Creating release notes and provide knowledge transfer to support teams.  • Involved in preparing training manuals and giving training to end users.  • Implemented change request and enhancements. Developer Hoover Infotech May 2005 to March 2006 Project Title: Online Shopping Portal and Content Management Systems  Tools & Technologies: ASP, SQL Server, VB Script, JavaScript, MySQL, CSS, HTML, Dream Viewer, ASP.Net, C#.Net    Project Description  Developed and implemented of a number of online shopping web sites. All these web sites are of similar functions with shopping cart, newsletter, user registration, payment module, UPS (United Parcel Service) shipping coast tool and a content management system with web editor, multiple image uploading to manage the products, view customer orders, sales reports etc.    Responsibilities/Contributions  • Involved in requirement gathering and analysis, developing prototype and getting approval from client.  • Deigned and developed webforms and user controls.  • Written stored procedures, user defined functions and triggers. Software Engineer Kora Software Limited - London April 2002 to April 2005 Tools & Technologies: ASP, SQL Server, VB Script, JavaScript, MySQL, CSS, HTML, Dream Viewer, ASP.Net, C#.Net, VB 6.0    Project Description  Developed a number of content management websites using ASP and SQL Server.  Part of the development team of Rent manager, a windows application product being developed to manage the entire activities of real estate agencies. This product contains the following major modules. Manage properties for sale, manage properties for rent, manage accounts for tenants and house owners, tenancy agreement letter creation and printing. The latest version of this product provides facilities to manage and publish properties to the web site portal.  Part of the development team of Reimbursement Database System (RDS), an application to meets the business requirements and needs of a group of Nursing Residential Homes that grows to accommodate future services and processes. One of areas identified as needed was a comprehensive and centralized reimbursement database that is accessible to all those that need the information. This is a flexible, password-protected, web-based application that has an enterprise level database (Oracle) and that is designed to meet reimbursement specifications. Software Engineer Convergis UK - London September 2001 to March 2002 Tools & Technologies: Java, EJB, JSP, Servlets, RMI & WebLogic    Project Description  Cross Platform File Transfer: This is a Java application for transfer of files from a Unix Platform to a Windows platform and vice versa across the network. This application supports FTP for file transfer. The front end for this application is developed in Java Swings.    Roles & Responsibilities:  Developing java swings interface and coding as per the program specification. Education Bachelor of Engineering in (B.E), Computer Science Madurai Kamaraj University 1996 to 2000 Diploma in internet programing Cyber Prism Training Institute Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, COMMERCE SERVER, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, JENKINS, WCF, PYTHON, SCRIPTING, VB.NET, VBSCRIPT, VISUAL BASIC, XML, XSLT, AJAX, ASP, CSS, .Net Core (1 year), MVC (4 years), Bootstrap (4 years)