Senior iOS Developer Senior iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior iOS Developer - Pinal county Phoenix, AZ • More than 10+ years of professional experience in designing and developing high-end enterprise level iOS applications in the roles of iOS Developer, Analyst and module Lead.  • Experience in Objective C and Swift to develop Native iOS Application.  • Experience in Design Patterns such as MVC, MVVM, Singleton and KVO/KVC to design dynamic flexible client side view.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis, Design and Development Methodologies.  • Good exposure of Apple coding guidelines, code architecture, storyboards, auto layouts and adaptive layout, stack views.  • Experience in writing Unit test cases using XC Test framework and handling secure client-server communication.  • Experience in using Google Map API for the Geo location services and using JSON web services to call external web service.  • Experience in OAuth for Google, Localizable strings and Core Graphics.  • Working experience in file versioning system like SVN Repository, Git, Mercurial and Bit bucket environment to commit and merge code in different server.  • Expert in Debugging and memory optimization.  • Self-motivated, quick learner and team player.  • Professional working experience with Java and C++.  • Good knowledge on Swift 3.0 (Protocol oriented programming).  • Experience in Mobile Ad Platform with integration support for ad banners, interstitials, video ads, Friendly iFrames, iFrame buster etc.  • Expert in understanding and improving the code of already developed application from the perspective of improving performance and enhancing the features of the application.  • Experience with BLE.  • Efficient storage of data storage using File System, SQLite, CoreData and Database.  • Experience in XML and JSON Parsing, Offline Storage, Multithreading using both 1st party and 3rd party frameworks including Touch XML, SBJSON, NS XML Parser and NS JSON Serialization.  • Knowledge on Push Notifications.  • Extensive working experience with RESTful API and HTTP protocols.  • Experience in working under Mac OS-X and Windows platforms.  • Responsible for App support and latest versions compatibility.  • Experience in implementing Third Party library into the Codebase.  • Experienced in provisioning and publishing applications in App Store with working knowledge of Apple publishing procedures and App review process.  • Has excellent work ethics, and is team oriented with strong analytical and leadership qualities.  • Experienced in Software Development with complete exposure in Development, Design, Testing, Support and Maintenance using SDLC and Agile methodology. Work Experience Senior iOS Developer Pinal county - Phoenix, AZ May 2017 to Present The Pinal County Application is committed to providing an open and two-way communication link to the Sheriff's department. The app has been developed in partnership with LogicTree IT Solutions, Inc., and provides the perfect way for the user to receive notifications of critical information immediately to their mobile device, as well as bulletins about missing persons, stolen vehicles, traffic incidents, etc. The app also allows users to easily submit tips (anonymously if desired), send comments, photos and place non-emergency calls to the department with the touch of a button.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing and designing the user app in Xcode 8.x/9 for compatibility with iOS 11/12 using Swift 3.x/4.x.  • Used Cocoa Pods to integrate third party libraries such as Alamofire and Kingfisher into the app for downloading and caching images.  • Implemented push notifications to alert the customer of critical information using the Apple Push Notification Server (APNS).  • Used Codable protocols to map Swift objects to JSON data.  • Implemented WebView to display the Pinal County website when the user wants to find the location of a nearby Sheriff's Office.  • Worked on adding a new feature, Message opt-in/opt-out which allows the user to receive notifications via text messages.  • Worked on building the app in an MVVM pattern.  • Worked on grand central dispatch queues for background operations such as photo upload, product search.  • Tested the end application for memory leaks and fixed relevant bugs to resolve memory management issues using Xcode tools.  • Worked with an Agile approach on a two-week sprint iteration with a team of 8 members.  • Worked with testers to get gain additional informational about bugs in the app and work on resolving them in a time efficient manner.  • Used Jira for the purpose of task management, bug tracking and fixes.  Environment: iOS 12, Swift 4, XCode 8.0, XCode 8.3.3, XCode 10, Jira, Cocoa Touch, JSON, SourceTree, Jenkins Senior iOS Developer Key Point Credit Union - Santa Clara, CA January 2015 to May 2017 The Key Point Credit Ubion Mobile App helps you to manage your finances, make check deposits, transfer funds, and pay bills, all within the app. Additional features include making an appointment with a banker, finding a nearby ATM, etc.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in design, implementation and user experience sessions with the product and testing teams.  • Responsible for developing and designing the user app in Xcode 8.0 for compatibility with iOS 10/11 using Swift 3.x.  • Created Custom UI Navigation View, UI Tab Bar View, UI Custom Cell, UI Alert View by utilizing third party libraries and existing libraries from Apple.  • Securing the user credentials upon log in using Swift KeyChain Wrapper.  • Worked on Payment Processing as Schedule Pay and Autopay are involved with Payment.  • Utilized NSUserDefaults, Multithreading, info. PList key values, Core Data, and SQLite, Foundation, Cocoa touch, MapKit, UIKit, Instruments and Cocoa pods to improve performance of the application and to resolve various bugs.  • Used Alamofire to make network calls for fetching data from the server.  • Worked on service calls using core framework web service API using NSURLsession to parse JSON data, create data model in the application and update UI.  • Worked extensively on User Interface elements in order to implement customized TableViews, CollectionViews and Alert Controller.  • Managed data and memory management from streamlining code and using various debugging tests.  • Developed automated unit test cases using XC Test framework and carried out testing using mock objects.  • Used MVC, singleton, delegation and notification patterns.  • Followed a work data flow principle for design and development.  • Worked with UIKit Framework for the applications at hand.  • Used Core Data to store data returned from the C++ framework into Persistent Store locally and saved the data in SQLite Database.  • Worked in an Agile environment with a team of 6 members.  Environment: XCode8.0, iOS SDK, MVC, Cocoa Touch, Core Data, SQLite. Foundation, UIKit, Map Kit, JSON, Restful API, Instruments, Cocoa pods, GCD, GitHub. iOS Developer TripAdvisor Hotels Restaurants - Needham, MA October 2013 to January 2015 TripAdvisor makes it easy to find the lowest airfare, best hotels, great restaurants, and things to do, wherever the location. The app uses the user's location to send them personalized hotel, restaurant, attraction and vacation rental recommendations as well as remember the places you visited via the Travel Timeline feature. The locations are collected even if the app is in the background.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing and designing the user app in Xcode 6.x/7.x for compatibility with iOS 9/10 using Swift 2.x.  • Securing the user credentials upon log in using Swift KeyChain Wrapper and Open Authorization (Oauth)  • Implemented 3D Touch in order to provide a quick view of "Near Me Now" and "Search" features.  • Worked to create a "Recently viewed destinations" scroll view to keep track of the places visited recently using Core Data  • Used Alamofire to make network calls for fetching data from the server.  • Used JSON Serialization to parse JSON data to retrieve flight information from the server and display it in the User Interface.  • Worked on migrating few blocks of code that were in Objective-C to Swift.  • Worked on creating "Create a Trip" which creates a custom trip for the user using UserDefaults.  • Worked extensively in creating UICollectionViews for displaying the various features available on the app such as hotels, flights, etc.  • Implemented UI CollectionView FlowLayout for displaying various categories such as "Recently Viewed", "Related to items you viewed", etc.  • Worked in an Agile environment with a team of 6 members.  • Used Jira for bug tracking and task management.  Environment: iOS 9 and 10 (iPhone SDK), Objective C, XCode 6.X/7.X, Cocoa, Cocoa Touch, iPhone Simulator, UIKit, Jira, GitHub, Core Data iOS Developer Vision Asia - IN May 2011 to October 2013 Vision Asia is a media company servicing the cultural and entertainment needs of people from the Indian subcontinent living in Australia and New Zealand. Vision Asia iPhone app connects you with the entire buzz around Bollywood and the latest happenings on Indian television.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in System study and evolving the Use cases.  • Involved in working on application from idea level.  • Involved in requirement gathering and preparing the design documents.  • Involved in developing UI for all modules, News and Twitter feeds integration, Maps integration and Feedback Application integration.  • Implemented ScrollView and UI TextField Degelegate to make the forms responsive and interactive.  • Involved in fixing major Bugs present in application.  • Developed unit tests for testing specific functionality and logic.  • Created Custom UI TableView cells with different styles to accommodate the UX/UI requirements on Screen  • Used Auto layout feature to adapt UIs to different rotations and screen sizes for universal app  • Worked on network/authentication module.  • Implemented AF Networking to acquire data.  • Persisted important user data using NSUSer Defaults.  • Managed data using SQLite.  • Implemented SplitView Controller for menu options as sidebar.  • Built custom progress bars for better user experience.  • Built iOS Storyboards with UI TabBar Controllers creating segues between different views, established IBOutlet, IB Actions in the storyboard.  • Used GIT for version control systems.  • Involved in code reviewing and unit testing of constructed application.  Environment: Objective C, iOS, SQLite, AF Networking, Core Location, Twitter API, Core Animation, UIKIT, AV Foundation, GIT, RESTful API, Operation Queue. Software Developer Creative Solutions Pvt. Ltd February 2009 to May 2011 The Path Links system is a patient-centered, process-oriented, Web-host or self-host information system that allows you to streamline your business processes by choosing from integrated modules that facilitate clinical, financial, and enterprise management. You can start with a few applications and add others as required, or implement the entire system for a total solution.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Admission & Census module, which monitors a wide range of detailed information for each resident upon pre-admission or admission to facility.  • Involved in development of Care Plans module, which provides a comprehensive library of problems, goals and approaches. You have the option of tailoring (adding, deleting, or editing problems, goals and approaches) these libraries and the disciplines you will use for your care plans.  • Designed & developed the front end (templates) using JSP, Struts tags, JSTL, CSS, HTML, and JavaScript  • Implemented in multithreading technology.  • Wrote Custom Tag Handlers and wrote Tag Library Descriptors.  • Designed and developed the application using the Eclipse IDE.  • Used the Log4J as logging framework.  • Used HTML for detail and slick grid for summary and list views to enhance package tracking experience for the users  • Used latest design techniques, fluid animations using CSS3 keyframes.  • Made responsive design to fit all screen resolutions.  • Created advanced animations using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Designed Logos using Adobe Illustrator.  • Helped in documentation of coding.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming using Java and J2EE related technologies.  • Supported of application for regular change requests and enhancements.  • Developed Java code generators to generate Junit test cases for java code.  • Involved in Unit Integrating and System Testing.  • Developed UI using HTML, JavaScript, and JSP, and developed Business Logic and Interfacing components using Business Objects.  Environment: J2EE, Java/JDK, EJB, Struts, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, JNDI, JavaBeans, JQuery, XML, XSLT, Oracle 9i, Eclipse, HTML/ DHTML. Education Bachelor's Skills ANDROID, ANGULARJS, FIREBASE, HTML5, IOS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages Swift, Objective - C, Java, C++, Python.  iOS Stack  URL Session, Core Animation, Core Location, Core Graphics, UIKIt, Metal, GCD and Operations, Core Bluetooth, APNS, Core Data, AV Foundation.    Database MySQL, SQL Server, Firebase Cloud, SQLite.  Web Technologies HTML5, JavaScript, PHP, CSS3, JSP, Servlets, AngularJS.  Operating Systems Linux, Windows, Android, iOS.  Version Control JIRA, GIT, Cocoa Pods.  Tools Visual Studio, X-Code, Eclipse, Android Studio, Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop, Dreamweaver.