Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Engineer Fort Lauderdale, FL Full-Stack developer with 10+ years of software engineering and programming experience. Knowledge of Object-Oriented Programming, Functional programming, Software Architecture, and Enterprise Applications Patterns. Using Angular, React and Jquery, CSS and Html for Frontend development among other, and NetCore(C#), Gin-Gonic(Golang), and Symfony(PHP) as backend technologies and languages.  *Please read at the end of the resume. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Developer Buy Lotto Now / Lotto Payment Association - Boca Raton, FL June 2018 to Present • Front-end development: Angular 5, 6 and 7, using Material Design, RxJS  • Development of REST API: Golang, Mongo DB, Elasticsearch, RabbitMQ, Net core, web API, Entity Framework, MySQL  • Development of back-end services using third party APIs: Golang, Mongo DB, Elasticsearch  • Development of plugins for WordPress CMS: PHP, MySQL, Angular. Software Developer / UI Designer AM Global Group - Fort Lauderdale, FL December 2016 to July 2018 • Front-end development / UI Design: Angular, Material design for angular, PHP  • Develop Web Applications using PHP, Symfony, MySQL, Twig.  • Develop WordPress plugins and theme customizations using PHP and JavaScript.  • Team leader Software Engineer Nicey Inc - Fort Lauderdale, FL August 2014 to September 2016 • Development Windows Form Applications using C# and Net Framework (WinForms, ADO.NET, Crystal Report) as main technologies creating solutions from Management to Inventory Systems.  • Development of WordPress plugins and theme customizations using PHP and JavaScript.  • Development of mobile(hybrid) applications using JavaScript and Ionic framework.  • Team leader of a small group of freelancer developers. Software Engineer SAS Studio, Consulting company - Quito, Provincia de Pichincha 2013 to 2014 • Development of the systems for import large data file using parallel patterns used by DirecTV Ecuador: C#, Entity Framework, LINQ, WinForms.  • Design and development of the promotions and affiliate systems for DirecTV Ecuador.: C# Web API, Angular v1, MySQL.  • Development of the customer complaints modules improving the communication between the operator and the affiliate: PHP, Symfony, MySQL, RabbitMQ. Software Engineer University of the Informatics Sciences - CU 2006 to 2013 • Development of internal human resources system: C#, Windows Forms, ADO.NET.  • Database administrator: PostgreSQL  • Development of several modules of the "Medicine Control System" for the Public Health Ministry of Cuba: Java, Java Swing, Hibernate, PHP, Symfony.  • Design complete system architecture  • Create database models using PostgreSQL  • Project management control using Subversion version control and Redmine Education Certification in Advanced Front-End Web Development Microsoft Academy Professional Program September 2017 to February 2018 Diploma in UX / UI Design UCI Division of Continuing Education February 2016 to October 2016 Certification in Advanced Web Development with HTML5 with CSS3 Treehouse Tech Inc. Online Tech Degree October 2014 to March 2015 Postgraduate Course in Web Technology, Database & Research Methodology Higher Polytechnic Institute “Jose A. Echeverria”, Cujae - Havana September 2011 to June 2013 Bachelor's in Computer Science Computer Sciences University - Havana September 2006 to July 2011 Skills C# (10+ years), Git (6 years), Javascript (10+ years), Typescript (4 years), Linux (10+ years), Golang (2 years), Angular (6 years), PHP (10+ years), Entity Framework (6 years), WinForms (5 years), MongoDB (5 years), Wordpress (4 years), Microservices (4 years), Symfony (10+ years), Databases (10+ years), React js (3 years), Node.js (5 years), Rest (5 years) Additional Information *In the next two months, I can only work remotely (family problems). I cannot move to another place to live, and I cannot work in an office. I have a full-time job in an office, and I am quitting because of the need to go home. I have experience working remotely. I can share my work environment in real-time, with video calls, phone calls, and chat at any time. Willing to take trial periods with little pay. Thanks for your time and consideration.