Manager, Application Development Manager, Application Development Manager, Application Development - Hilton Grand Vacations Orlando, FL Authentic leadership with multi-industry experience building scalable, agile, cross-functional teams utilizing onshore, offshore, and automation. Championing digital transformations to solve challenging business problems through people, processes, and technology. Consistent history of on-time and on-budget delivery by integrating continuous delivery value chains, accountable teams, and measurable work and software quality.   Significant prior successes as a software engineer with a strong knowledge of using algorithms, data structures, service-oriented and event-driven system architectures to build reliable, high-performance distributed systems on-prem and in the cloud. Work Experience Manager, Application Development Hilton Grand Vacations - Orlando, FL May 2012 to Present • Direct and manage 43 developers working on 62 applications.  • Introduced the first Center of Excellence (CoE) at the company.  • Vendor management to scale to demand, new SOWs with quality metrics.  • Cost savings through business process automation.  • Responsible for on-time delivery and process improvement.  • Coordinate with business leaders, project managers, business analysis,  quality assurance, production support, developers, and vendors.  • Internationalized applications to support multiple currencies and languages.  • Implemented CI/CD and automated code quality analysis.  • Engage developers to improve their skillsets and their applications.  • Utilizing Azure cloud, agile SDLC, microservices, analytics, payment gateways. Senior Software Developer Channel Intelligence - Orlando, FL September 2009 to August 2012 Development of back-end services and databases to support near real-time  data analysis of cross-site internet tracking data.  • Big data analytics to support internet ad delivery based on individual user's  history of sites visited, links clicked, interactions and clicks on other ads.  • Real-time system performance metrics reporting and interaction.  • Utilizing Azure cloud, Amazon EC2 cloud, MongoDB, SQL Server, .NET, Linux. Senior Software Developer Walt Disney Company - Orlando, FL August 2011 to May 2012 • MagicBand development team for Disney Magical Express.  • Responsible for transporting guests and luggage from the airport to resort- hotels and cruise line.  • Created guest facing and employee facing interfaces for desktops and tablets.  • Built using SOA, Windows services, push notifications, entity framework. Manager, Software Development Next Solution - Orlando, FL January 2009 to September 2009 • Manage developers for multiple projects and multiple customers in concurrent development.  • Responsible for time-management, project management, on-time delivery  and process improvement.  • Delivered interactive websites, web services, native applications, data  security, data importing and exporting, systems integration, code analysis,  performance optimization, PDF generation and iPhone app development.  • Developed with a variety of technologies including ASP.NET, C# and VB.NET,  JavaScript, T-SQL on SQL Server. Senior Software Engineer & Scrum Master Hilton Grand Vacations - Orlando, FL May 2007 to January 2009 • Agile SDLC development Scrum Master for a team of 3 developers.  • Manage and reported scope, estimates and progress of projects.  • Financial data that required redundancy, high availability and security.  • Utilizing n-tier, object oriented architecture, AJAX, MVC, web technologies. Education Executive M.B.A. in international residency in Tokyo and Hong Kong University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL March 2019 B.S. in Computer Engineering Wright State University - Dayton, OH December 1998 Skills .net (2 years), Ajax (1 year), Amazon ec2 (2 years), Amazon elastic compute cloud (2 years), architecture (1 year), Asp (Less than 1 year), Asp.net (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), databases (2 years), Ec2 (2 years), integration (Less than 1 year), Integrator (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Linux. (2 years), Mongodb (2 years), Ms sql server (3 years), Sdlc (8 years), Soa (Less than 1 year), Sql (3 years), Sql server (3 years), training, budget, Strategic Planning, Word Links http://linkedin.com/in/jason-whitmer