Sr.NET Consultant Sr.NET Consultant Sr.NET Consultant - PPG Industries, Pittsburg - PA Indianapolis, IN • To be associated with progressive organization that gives me scope to update my knowledge and skills in accordance with latest trends and be a part of the team and dynamically work towards growth of the organization and gain satisfaction.  • Results-driven professional with academic background in Computer Application Programming.  • 7+ years of Relevant IT experience as software programmer/ Developer and was involved in the analysis, design, developing, testing and implementation of Web based Applications, Windows Applications and using Object Oriented programming model using .NET Framework 3.5/3.0/2.0  • Expertise in designing and developing applications using ASP.NET, MVC, ADO.NET,LINQ, C#, SQL SERVER 2005/2008, Web services, HTML 4/5, XML, CSS, AJAX  • Good Knowledge in using WCF services, WPF, SOAP, Silverlight, MVC  • Excellent knowledge in working with IIS, .Net Assemblies, .Net Framework  • Proficient in developing n-tier distributed .NET applications using Web Forms and Win Forms  • Excellent experience in developing Web-Forms and Win-Forms.  • Developed web applications on ASP.NET MVC 3.0 and 4.0.  • Experience in using Ajax Controls for Web Applications development.  • Experience in database design and also in development, for creating complex database queries, writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, in SQL Server.  • Good experience in using ADO.NET objects such as SQL Connection Object, SQL Command Object, Data Reader Object, Data Set Object and Data Adapter Object.  • Expert in designing reports using Microsoft SSRS and data integration using Microsoft SSIS and also data analysis services using Microsoft SSAS  • Expertise in using Java Script and ASP.NET validation controls for form validations  • Creative in Designing the UI that is appealing and also gives user friendly experience  • Experience in generating various Reports using SQL Server Report Service (SSRS) Reports, Crystal Reports.  • Hands on experience in debugging and fixing the bugs and also very good with support and maintenance  • Excellent customer service orientation and outstanding verbal and written communications skills.  • Good working knowledge in designing Usecase, Class, State, Collaboration, Sequence and Deployment diagrams using UML  • Good domain Knowledge in Healthcare and Pharmaceutical sectors  • Experience using Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, Team Foundation Server, SVN for Version Control  • Good communication and interpersonal skills, Good team player, Fast Learner and a person with positive attitude and values. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.NET Consultant PPG Industries, Pittsburg - PA January 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in full life cycle of the project from requirements gathering, analyzing, designing UI/Middle tier/data base and transition using Iterative AGILE Methodology.  • Coordinated with offshore development team to get day to day task details.  • Written Windows Services to import data from local clinics to Centralized database.  • Written threading concept while implementing business logic.  • Used Entity Framework 4.0 to implement ORM mapping and LINQ for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation.  • Responsible for developing WCFServices to exchange data between local and Central Applications and consumed WCF service which is based on SOA (Service Oriented Architecture).  • Used Telerik Rad WPF controls like Tab Control, Date picker, combobox and Gridview for online application and WPF controls for offline application and built custom validate classes for validation.  • Done extensive applications using kendo-UI for the development of views and alsodeveloped bindings with view-models using KendoUI.  • Implemented ServiceContract, OperationContract and DataContract attributes and developed WCF Web Services.  • Involved in Master Page creation, designing CSS, JQUERY.  • Designed and developed ASP.Net web pages using AJAX.  • Implemented code behind and business logic in C#.  • Developed the rich visual components through WPF and Silver light using XAML and Expression Blend  • Experience in coding the presentation layer using WPF  • Used ASP.NET, AJAX and JQUERY for faster and more responsive user interaction  • Validation is implemented using ASP.NET Validation Controls and JavaScript for client side validation.  • Involved in bug fixing occurred during testing process  • Involved in designing, updating the application as required  • Involved in support and maintenance. Sr.NET Developer United HealthCare - Cypress, CA August 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Working on N-tier architecture application with ASP.NET Web API and Entity Framework.  • Designing and implementing application using C#, ASP.NET MVC 5.0 with Razor View Engine, jQuery, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Utilized Entity Framework Database First approach.  • Designing responsive User Interface (UI) Layouts for dynamic web pages using ASP.NET MVC 5.0, WebAPI, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Responsible for developing the interactive Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Utilized jQuery AJAX library to call WebAPI to populate dropdown list and utilize JQuery UI auto complete to call action method in controller to implement auto complete, also used jQuery UI dialog and partial view to implement a pop-up.  • Used ASP.NET MVC data annotations and JQuery to do validations on the Model Data.  • Had a chance to implement service oriented architecture (SOA) Layer using C# .net and WCF to decouple the UI with Business Logic.  • Created Web APIs using ASP.NET Web API allow new client projects to leverage data.  • Created the WebAPI which can return the data from SQL Server database and pass the data to the dropdown list in the corresponding views.  • Worked with abstract classes, interfaces and also have knowledge on the dependency injection workflow.  • Worked with ASP.NET Web Forms, Web Services and coded the business logic in c#.  • Designed and developed the GUI for the user interface with various controls like Grid View, Data List, Textbox, Calendar, List Controls, Dropdown, Validation Controls etc.  • Involved in Developing Master Pages using Style Sheet and for providing uniformity among the pages using ASP.NET.  • Developed User Controls and Custom Controls with Themes, Geric. XAML, Dependency Proptery and C# and Silverlight Class Libraray  • Used AJAX script manager, update panel for partial updates to make UI more responsive.  • ASP.NET AJAX Control Toolkit is used to code queries for DML, DDL Statements  • Designed and developed Graphical user interfaces using C#  • Involved in deploying the application on the IIS server  • Designed and developed Matrix and Tabular reports with Drill Down, Drill Through, Parameterized, Sub Reports and Drop down menu option using SQL Reporting Services (SSRS). Net developer Austin Mutual Insurance Company - Minneapolis, MN May 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Used N-tier architecture for presentation, business and data layers  • Used ASP.NET login controls like Create user wizard, login, change password, etc.  • Improved the performance of web pages by using AJAX.  • Extensively used ASP.NET controls for developing the UI  • Used C#.NET in writing Business classes and Data Access layer methods.  • Have created and implemented WCF services to read and persist policy information in various databases  • Designed, modeled and architected multi-threaded, enterprise N- tier software agent using WCF web service hosted in a Windows service.  • Designed Class and use case diagrams using MS Visio  • Involved in using MVC pattern for the UI development  • Attended the code review sessions and have given presentations  • Involved in writing stored procedures using SQL Server 2005  • Used the ADO.NET SQL Client Objects like SQL Connection, SQL Command, SQL DataReader and SQL DataAdapter and Dataset object in the Data Access Layer to fetch the data from the MDF database files using SQL SERVER 2008.  • Involved in creating Views, Stored Procedures and Triggers and calling them from the Data Access Layer.  • Designed ER diagrams for the application  • Performed unit testing and functional testing  • Fixed the issues and bugs occurred during testing process  • Involved in designing, updating the application as required  • Deployed the application on test and production servers  • Involved in support and maintenance  • Developed code documents and user documents NET Developer Array BioPharma - Boulder, CO March 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC of this intranet web application.  • Involved in the Design of GUI using ASP.NET and business logic using C#  • Used Cascading Style Sheets for a unified look and feel of the application  • Performed validations on Web Forms using .NET Validation Controls and also JavaScript  • Created various Master pages to ensure reusability and designed Administrator Pages to handle overall application  • Developed the web application in C# employing effective use of Web forms  • Involved in design of Database Architecture  • Implemented Optimized Stored Procedures, Database Triggers, Views, and Indexes using T-SQL in SQL Server 2005  • Excellent experience in designing the .NET XML web services for data synchronization as well as file transfer and emailing utilities  • Developed WCF services and implemented several contracts attributes and data contract attributes  • Effectively used various State Management Techniques offered by ASP.NET  • Used Gridview, Dataset, Listview, Formview Panels and DataReader to retrieve, display and manipulate data  • Used ADO.NET components such as Data Adapter, Data Reader and Dataset  • Used Microsoft Visual Source Safe for version control  • Participated along with team and the Project Manager in various client meetings to discuss progress of the project  • Generated complex and detailed reports using Crystal Report  • Involved in unit testing using NUNITtesting  • Responsible for debugging and fixing bugs  • Involved in support and maintenance  • Developed code documents and user documents    Dexter lab Software Support Engineer/ Software Developer April 2007 to February 2009 Responsibilities:  • Documented the Screen specification document and Design Document by using MS Visio  • Prepared Application Prototypes using HTML  • Developed application using ASP.NET, C#, JavaScript and unit testing of the software components using NUNIT 2.29  • Developed classes for consuming web services by using XML Web Services  • Developed number of Back-End SQL Procedures, functions  • Prepared Test Plan, Test scripts and Test conditions for system and Integration testing  • Followed the SDLC guidelines and ISO standards in all the phases of the work and conducted quality reviews to ensure adherence to process standards throughout the Project life cycle. Education B.Tech in Electronics and Instrumentation Kakatiya institute of science and technology Skills ASP (10+ years), ASP.NET (10+ years), C# (10+ years), MS ASP (10+ years), SQL (8 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    .Net Technologies ADO.NET, ASP.NET, LINQ, Web services, WCF, WPF, .NET Framework 3.0/3.5/4.0, Silverlight, XAML  Programming Languages C, C++, C#  Scripting Languages Ajax, Java Script, HTML, CSS, PHP  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008/2005, MS Access  XML Technologies XML, XSLT, XPATH, WSDL  Protocols HTTP, FTP, SOAP  Web Server IIS  Versioning Tools Visual Source Safe, Team Foundation Server, SVN  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, SSRS Reports  Tools Visual Studio 2005/2008/2010, MS Management Studio, MS Visio  Operating System Windows 2000/ Server 2003/ Server 2008/ XP/Vista/7