IT Developer III IT <span class="hl">Developer</span> III IT Developer III - Kemper Preferred Green Cove Springs, FL Visual FoxPro Developer Work Experience IT Developer III Kemper Preferred - Jacksonville, FL August 2002 to Present Expert in database solution programming primarily with MS Visual FoxPro (all versions). Strong HTML5, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS and XML. Extensive SQL, T-SQL and n-tier, object-oriented architecture. Vast experience with frameworks including West-Wind's Web Connection.    Exceptional, repeatedly recognized for contributions beyond expectations.    August 2002 - Present Kemper Preferred Jacksonville, Florida  IT Developer III  * Architect of enterprise insurance industry workflow solution, IPAL.  * Responsible for full life-cycle support including requirements gathering, project scheduling, implementation, user documentation and support.  * Automate import and routing of data from a variety of sources including Rightfax, Outlook, XML, FTP, CSV and internal, propriety data feeds into browser-based user interfaces for processing by underwriting and operations departments.  * Design and implement a flexible framework having data-driven components allowing for modifications, creation of custom reports and new pages on-the-fly.  * Design and implement user access controls with interfaces allowing supervisors and managers to manage access and data assignments for their teams.  * Develop and implement PCI-compliance AES 256 encryption in C# for sensitive data. Senior Software Engineer Aether Mobile Government - Yakima, WA August 2000 to August 2002 * Developed web-enabled federally-compliant fire department records management system with SQL backend (T-SQL).  * Responsible for the fire incident module and compliance with the National Fire Incident Reporting System (NFIRS).  * Developed batch validation of incident data against government standards using existing classes.  * Recognized most valued employee of year. Senior Software Engineer International System Solutions - Panama City, FL May 1995 to July 2000 * Maintained sales order driven production scheduling and accounting system for textile industry solution (vertical market).  * Researched potential target platforms / environments for existing Clipper (DOS) system.  * Developed code conversion utility and demonstrated to key personnel that the target platform was feasible.  * Developed standards and mentored junior developers.  * Implemented source control and database upgrade standards.  * Converted procedural to object-oriented code utilizing a framework and Database Toolkit. Education Associate in Computer Programming Technology Jones County Junior College - Ellisville, MS January 1990 to January 1993 Skills C#, NET, Javascript, MySQL, ASP, jQuery, HTML 5, AJAX (8 years), JSON (9 years), FoxPro (10+ years), T-SQL (6 years), SQL (10+ years), CSS3 (7 years)