IT Developer III IT <span class="hl">Developer</span> III IT Developer III - Kemper Preferred Green Cove Springs, FL Work Experience IT Developer III Kemper Preferred - Jacksonville, FL August 2002 to February 2019 Expert in Visual FoxPro database solution programming. Strong HTML5, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, CSS and XML.  Extensive SQL, T-SQL and n-tier architecture. Highly motivated towards modern technology - especially  SOAP, AJAX, JSON and Dot Net.    Exceptional, repeatedly recognized for contributions beyond expectations.    August 2002 - Present Kemper Preferred Jacksonville, Florida  IT Developer III  * Architect of enterprise insurance industry workflow solution, IPAL.  * Responsible for full life-cycle support including requirements gathering, project scheduling,  implementation and user support.  * Automate import and routing of data from a variety of sources including Rightfax, Outlook, XML,  FTP, CSV and internal, propriety data feeds into browser-based user interfaces for processing by underwriting and operations departments.  * Design and implement a flexible framework having data-driven components allowing for modifications, creation of custom reports and new pages on-the-fly.  * Design and implement user access controls with interfaces allowing supervisors and managers to manage access and data assignments for their teams.  * Develop and implement PCI-compliance AES 256 encryption in C# for sensitive data. Senior Software Engineer Aether Mobile Government - Yakima, WA August 2000 to August 2002 Developed web-enabled federally-compliant fire department records management system with SQL  backend (T-SQL).  * Responsible for the fire incident module and compliance of the incident data with the National Fire  Incident Reporting System (NFIRS) standards.  * Developed an interface allowing batch validation of incident data against government standards  implementing existing object classes.  * Recognized most valued employee of year. Senior Software Engineer International System Solutions - Panama City, FL May 1995 to July 2000 Maintained sales order driven production scheduling and accounting system for textile industry  solution (vertical market).  * Researched potential target platforms / environments for existing Clipper (DOS) system.  * Developed code conversion utility and demonstrated to key personnel that the target platform was  feasible.  * Developed standards and mentored junior developers.  * Implemented source control and database upgrade standards.  * Converted procedural to object-oriented code utilizing a framework and Database Toolkit.    Associate of Science in Computer Programming Technology  Excellent references. Education Associate Skills ASP (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (10+ years), MySQL (Less than 1 year), Visual FoxPro (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), JSON (7 years), Ajax (7 years), HTML5 (7 years), jQuery (7 years), C# (2 years), CSS (7 years), West-wind Web Connection (10+ years), Clipper (5 years)