Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Kaiser dela Cruz Consulting Inc US Work Experience Software Developer Kaiser dela Cruz Consulting Inc May 2015 to Present Company overview: KCCI is one of the leading providers of Hospital Information System (HIS) in the country with more than 50 clients nationwide  Major Clients: NKTI (National Kidney and Transplant Institute, East Ave., Quezon City)  Cebu Doctor's University Hospital (Cebu City)  Region 1 Medical Center (Dagupan City)  World Citi Medical Center (Aurora Boulevard, Quezon City)  AUFMC (Angeles City, Pampanga)    Roles and Responsibilities  • Analyze, review and maintain existing program  • Design and develop new applications according to company standards and end-users' need  • Create and alter database tables, indexes, stored procedures, functions and views for performance optimization and additional end-user's requests  • Optimize database objects to improve performance by using tools such as SQL Profiler and Execution Plans  • Provide modifications and additional features to end-users  • Trace errors and provide solution then apply it to other clients if necessary  • Design crystal reports based on client's requirements  • Maintain Dynamic Link Libraries (DLLs)  • Export and import data to and from sources like MS Excel and Access  • Provide documentation and detailed user's manual  • Assist Application Support in data gathering and user trainings  • Troubleshoot hardware connections of the application, such as, barcode printers, barcode  scanners and serial ports  • Test the product in controlled, real situations before going live  • Collaborate with colleagues and other third-party suppliers for software integration Education Butubut Elementary School 2001 to 2007 Skills CRYSTAL REPORTS (4 years), DATABASE (4 years), INTEGRATION (4 years), INTEGRATOR (4 years), SQL (4 years) Additional Information ? 4 years in Software Development and Database management  ? Writes applications using different programming languages  ? Broad knowledge in DBMS  ? Adept in Transact-SQL  ? Works effectively with colleagues  ? Adaptable to various working conditions  ? Patient and persistent problem solver  ? Fast learner and keen observer    TECHNICAL SKILLS    ? Application Development (VB6, ASP.net, VB.net, HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript)  ? Database Management (MSSQL 2008/2014/2012/2016, MySQL)  ? Development Tools: Visual Basic 6.0, Microsoft Visual Studio, Seagate Crystal Reports 8/8.5  SQL Server Management Studio, Dynamsoft VSS, VMWare, SQL Profiler  ? Data Reporting (Crystal Reports)  ? Laboratory Information System Integration via HL7 message (FTP or TCP/IP)  ? Basic knowledge with C#, C++ and Java Programming  ? Proficient in Microsoft Office tools  ? Basic LAN and WAN troubleshooting    ELIGIBILITY    ? Career Service Professional Eligibility (April 6, 2014)  ? Rating: 81.62 %