Devops Engineer Devops Engineer Devops Engineer - Engage Financial Technology Encinitas, CA Work Experience Devops Engineer Engage Financial Technology - San Diego, CA October 2018 to Present • Automated deployment for backend applications using Ansible and Jenkins.  • Created continuous integration pipelines for all backend code, including Spring Boot applications, using Jenkins.  • Collected performance and system metrics using Stats D with reporting in DataDog.  • Instituted log aggregation, collecting application and system logs, for easy querying in DataDog.  • Created and maintained Kubernetes cluster for Spring Boot microservices.  • Organized on-call alert system using PagerDuty.  • Automated database schema updates for backend applications using Liquibase. Principal Software Engineer CSA Travel Protection - San Diego, CA February 2017 to June 2017 • Instituted continuous integration using Jenkins, automating job creation for newly created branches via pipelines.  • Led team to internationalize ID theft prevention web site, using Spring MVC and REST.  • Instrumental in AWS migration efforts, creating Ansible playbooks orchestrating deployments for Wildfly and Tomcat web applications.  • Instituted code review process using GitLab.  • Implemented git flow branch management for various Spring applications.  • Demonstrated use of consumer driven contracts to verify consumer and producer interaction. Sr. Software Engineer San Diego, CA June 2015 to January 2016 • Worked with team to create event based architecture, backed by Kafka, providing event-driven lab automation.  • Collaborated on REST API front-end of service bus, using Resteasy and Guice. Leveraged swagger/swagger-ui so that API documentation was generated from the code, reducing integration errors.  • Instrumented application code to emit metrics via Stats D, allowing performance monitoring. Installed graphite/grafana for real-time performance visualization.  • Worked with team to create ansible playbooks which automated EC2 deployments. These routines included installation and configuration of services such as Zookeeper, postgresql, and Kafka.  • Introduced Vagrant to development team for automated development environment setup. In addition, virtualization provided a quick means to verify deployment scripts.  • Created a flexible mock service to simulate the application's integration with 3rd party services. Used by both QA and developers, it dramatically reduced a feature's QA cycle. Sr. Software Engineer Syntricity - San Diego, CA August 2014 to June 2015 • Lead effort to install Jira issue/project tracking tool. Provided training on its use to staff.  • Tripled the amount of unit tests executed upon each commit from 300 to 900.  • Introduced dependency management to build process using Ivy.  • Designed and created report workflow feature, allowing users one-click report generation within the application. Backing code leveraged Groovy to automate what had been a time-intensive, manual process.  • Developed microchip defect detection application using Spring Boot and ActiveMQ.  • Introduced Vagrant to automate creation of development environment, faithfully re-creating critical aspects of production environment. Sr. Software Engineer Verve Mobile - Carlsbad, CA August 2008 to February 2014 • Created mobile advertising web service using Tomcat, Hibernate, and Spring. More than 300 million HTTP requests were serviced per day, peaking at 9,600 transactions per second.  • Technical lead for ad network integration engine, which retrieved ads from third party ad networks. Leveraging Groovy, introduced a Domain Specific Language (DSL) to describe these integrations, greatly reducing effort needed to realize relationships with advertising partners.  • Collaborated with others to create mobile web publication platform, which allowed customers like the Associated Press and Miami Herald to quickly create sites for mobile-based browsers. Publication platform used Spring, Hibernate, HTML5, and Angular.js.  • Created web based administrative tools using Struts 2 and jquery, providing control over advertising engine and publisher platform.  • Collaborated with others to create and maintain J2EE web service to authenticate and provide content to popular iPhone/Android client applications.  • Streamlined application lifecycle, from build, test, release and deployment, using Maven, Jenkins, and Capistrano.  • Introduced MySQL database schema/test data management using Liquibase.  • Increased code test coverage by 30% through use of automated browser tests. Software Engineer MediaSolv/Trantech - Herndon, VA August 2007 to May 2008 • Instituted code reviews and agile methodology amongst development team.  • Collaborated with engineering staff to create applications for use by law enforcement to manage video assets. The application UI used Java Server Faces framework. Software Engineer Spider Strategies - Washington, DC January 2007 to July 2007 Created unit-test infrastructure and educated colleagues about unit testing techniques. Software Developer Sunrocket, Inc - Vienna, VA May 2005 to December 2006 Technical lead for sign-up web application, the primary channel for new customer acquisition. Able to handle the thousands of new customer sign-ups per day. Software Developer Be Home Wise - Vienna, VA March 2004 to May 2005 Web Developer Cable & Wireless - Vienna, VA October 2001 to December 2003 Education Bachelor of Arts in English Shippensburg University - Shippensburg, PA 1995 General Manager FM College Radio Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/keith-collison/4/558/80b