Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - Ernst & Young LLP Philadelphia, PA • Over 10+ years of experience in IT, with 5 years in Salesforce.com Development/Administration this includes Analysis, Modeling, Design, Coding, Testing and Implementation in Health Care, Banking, Real Estate, Manufacturing and other domains. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer Ernst & Young LLP - Atlanta, GA August 2017 to Present Description: Ernst & Young is service oriented company which is providing services like Assurance, Tax, Advisory and Transaction Advisory Services. With Onsite and Offshore co-ordination expanding Salesforce.com functionality to cover all applications that touch CRM programs. Maintained and replaced in-house CRM components.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyse customer requirements and design Salesforce architecture to meet business needs.  ? Designed Implemented and deployed the Service Cloud with various custom built Page layouts Custom tabs Custom Apps to suit to the needs of the application also created various Profiles to enable the Service Cloud specific to them.  ? Implemented Customer Portal & Communities, Case Feed, and Knowledge Base & Entitlements.  ? Created custom apps in Partner portal,  ? Worked on web services, apex classes, apex triggers, test classes  ? Created and configured standard and custom objects to capture all essential information.  ? Involved with integrations to SAP  ? Created user Roles and Profiles, Permission Sets and security controls.  ? Created the workflow rules for defining related tasks, time-dependent workflow actions, email alerts and field updates to implement business logic.  ? Developed Reports and Dashboards for products Object.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, Data Loader, Workflow, Flows & Approvals, SOSL, SOQL, Email Services, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, HTML, Java Script. Lead Salesforce Developer Heartland Payment Systems May 2015 to July 2017 Description: Heartland Payment Systems was a fortune 1000 U.S.-based payment processing and technology provider, who is providing payment processing for more than 275,000 business locations in the United States and processes more than 11 million transactions a day and more than $80 billion in transactions a year. We are customizing and building Marketing, Selling and servicing apps for this client.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered business requirement and identified critical functional modules for gap analysis.  • Prepared functional requirement and design documents.  • Designed Implemented and deployed the Service Cloud with various custom built Page layouts Custom tabs Custom Apps to suit to the needs of the application also created various Profiles to enable the Service Cloud specific to them.  • Implemented Customer Portal & Communities, Case Feed, and Knowledge Base & Entitlements.  • Wrote SOQL and SOSL queries within custom controllers, extensions and triggers.  • Developed Email Services that automatically creates contact, Lead and opportunity records based on information in messages body.  • Created multiple Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters that makes the Lightning component look and feel better.  • Created custom fields, field dependencies, tabs, applications, home page components.  • Visualforce Pages for Lightning Experience, Alternates for Java Script Codes, Sharing Visualforce pages between Classic and Lightning.  • Worked on Lightning Process builder flows, Connect API, Chatter and quick Action.  • Developed Web services for creating leads in external system and get the response displayed in Visual force page.  • Developed round robin process for assigning Lead to users.  • Created visual force pages to display the details from various objects in custom format.  • Customized Profiles and created Custom fields, Lookup fields, Formula fields, Roll-up Summary fields, Page Layouts and Record Types  • Developed the batch process to load data from external system to salesforce using Jitterbit.  • Used field level security and profiles to ensure that protected data is only shared with authorized persons.  • Provided administration support to create new users, deactivate users, modify security and sharing settings for users.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, Data Loader, Workflow, Flows & Approvals, Email Services, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, HTML, Java Script, Oracle 11g Salesforce Developer J Knipper and Company, Inc - Lakewood, NJ April 2014 to March 2015 Description: J Knipper and company is service oriented company in health care division, which is providing sample management services like sample accountability, audit and inventory management services, sample fulfillment & distribution and health care provider data services and state and federal reporting services. Maintain daily management of logistics, inventory and administrative activities using Salesforce CRM. Working on standard objects like Leads, Account, Contacts and Cases    Responsibilities:  ? Defined objects and Field Level Security for different profiles.  ? Enhanced Apex Class and Visual Force Page to create a custom Related List, showing activities for selected contacts or clients.  ? Performed administrative tasks such as managing Accounts, Contacts and Cases, setting workflows and approval process for approving new accounts and other business process.  ? Created and configured Email templates, which were used by PCS Central users for approval processes and other field updates.  ? Worked in different sandboxes for development and testing, and involved in migrating the code to production instance in installments using Change Set.  Environment: Apex, Force.com platform, Web services API, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, CSS, Encryption Fields, Workflow & Approvals, Security Controls, Page Layouts, HTML, Java Script, Reports, Dashboards, Windows server. Salesforce Developer HSBC - Dallas, TX June 2013 to March 2014 Project Description:  HSBC well known as an American worldwide banking and financial services corporation. As part of the Wealth management and Assert management Service IT org at HSBC, the Customer Relationship Management (CRM) team provides technology based solutions across the HSBC Enterprise to Financial Consultants, Sales Reps and Advisors, which enables them to be more productive and effective with their clients. We do this by designing, developing and implementing best-of-breed CRM transactional and Analytics solutions based on Salesforce CRM and force.com platforms..    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed SFA based Application on Force.com Platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visual-Force pages as user interface.  • Configured Sales Force Automation (SFA) for Campaign management, Opportunity Management, Account and Contact Management, Data Quality Management,  • Used Force.com platform for developing feature rich and user friendly Visual force pages for enhancing Salesforce UI.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules on the objects and tabs, Components and Custom links.  • Used Salesforce.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Controllers and Triggers, Visual force, Force.com IDE, Migration Tool, Web Services API.  • Created search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Used Salesforce Automation Process (SAP), Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Worked on Salesforce.com Application to Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Sales force as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.    Environment: Apex, Force.com platform, Web services API, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, CSS, Encryption Fields, Workflow & Approvals, Security Controls, Page Layouts, HTML, Java Script, Reports, Dashboards, Windows server Team Lead CSH Inc May 2011 to April 2013 Project #: CSH Inc - NY  Project Description:  Carestream Health is a large account with over 1200+ lotus notes databases varying in all levels of complexity. I am currently involved with maintenance of their existing databases and new development as per user requirements.  The maintenance work involves adding additional functionality and applying the fixes, to the existing databases based on the customers' requests. New databases are requested by customers to automate the workflow existing in their various departments. This involves interacting with the customer to gather requirements, preparation of all required documentation etc.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with the users to gather the requirements.    • Preparing the Technical Specifications document, based on the user requirements.    • Created the design elements based on the Technical Specifications document.    • Created various design elements like, Scheduled agents, Forms, Views and Frame Sets.    • Implemented the Security in all levels like, Database Level, Design Element Level, Document Level and Field Level.    • Done unit testing and fixed the bugs and defects, where found in unit testing.    • Prepared the test run documents for all the levels of testing.    • Provided the UAT Support and production support for the applications.    • Resolved the production issues, if got any.    Environment: Lotus Notes R6.x/ 8.x, LEI, HTML, Java Script Sr. Software Executive Eastman Kodak Company November 2007 to April 2011 Project #: EKC - Lotus Notes  Project Description:    EKC is a large account with over 60,000 notes users. I was involved with maintenance of their existing databases and new development as per user requirements. The customer has numerous Notes databases varying in all levels of complexity.  The maintenance work involves migrating Notes databases from R5 to R6.5.x and also adding additional functionality to them based on the customer's requests. New databases are requested by customers to automate the workflow existing in their various departments. This involves interacting with the customer to gather requirements, preparation of all required documentation etc.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with the users to gather the requirements.    • Preparing the Technical Specifications document, based on the user requirements.    • Created the design elements based on the Technical Specifications document.    • Created various design elements like, Scheduled agents, Forms, Views and Frame Sets.    • Implemented the Security in all levels like, Database Level, Design Element Level, Document Level and Field Level.    • Done unit testing and fixed the bugs and defects, where found in unit testing.    • Prepared the test run documents for all the levels of testing.    • Provided the UAT Support and production support for the applications.    • Resolved the production issues, if got any.    Environment: Lotus Notes R5.x/ 6.x, LEI, HTML, Java Script Education Bachelor's Skills Salesforce