Senior Software Engineer II Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer II Senior Software Developer Falls Church, VA I am a software developer with twelve years of hands-on experience designing, implementing, and deploying .NET web applications. I have successfully tackled performance, scalability, and usability issues working on large applications. As a full-stack developer, I am capable of applying software engineering principles to build applications from the ground up. Problem-solving and overcoming challenges are two demands of the field that I enjoy. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer II Geico - Chevy Chase, MD November 2017 to Present Work on maintaining and enhancing Geico auto insurance sales web application using .NET 4.5, Sql Server 2014/16, and Web Api 2 technologies.  ? Provide code fixes and enhancements for complex .Net web application with 36 project solution that leverages up to 15 internal and third-party web services.  ? Troubleshoot issues using Visual Studio (VS) 2017 debugging tools, Splunk log management tool, log files, and database change observations.  ? Unit test code changes and insure 100% coverage using Ms Test 2017 and Moq mocking framework.  ? Run VS code complexity/code analysis tools and refactor as needed for code quality enhancement. Log in to Sonar tool to track technical debt tickets and address code coverage/quality issues.  ? Submit code for review (TFS), run gated (unit tests) check-in builds, and submit error-free code to repository (VS source control, GIT).  ? Observe agile processes (Scrumban) and ceremonies, used JIRA/TFS/ConnectAll technologies. Recently converted to DevOps and GIT.  ? Tools and libraries Used: Visual Studio 2017, Sql Server Management Studio 2016, PowerShell, JIRA, TFS/DevOps, GIT, MS Test, Splunk, Fiddler, SonarQube.  ? Recognized for saving Geico money by enhancing the Vehicle History service (Microsoft Web API 2). Leveraging the vehicle branding/titling histories from the Motor Vehicle Report (MVR), I was able to enhance the algorithm to identify higher risk drivers.  ? Made key contributions in Multiline discounts module so that the insured who buy multiple types of insurance (car, cycle, boat) get a discount. Principal Software Engineer CACI Federal Inc - Washington, DC June 2016 to November 2017 Senior applications developer tasked with the maintenance and deployment of five in-house .NET software applications.  ? Provided guidance and mentoring to junior developers as senior member of 6 person development team.  ? Lead effort to modernize legacy desktop application in a team of 3 developers, a business analyst, and a tester.  ? Converted two legacy desktop applications used by Presidential Executive Clerks to .NET web applications successfully and on-time. Used IIS 7, NET 4.6, MVC 5, Entity Framework 6, SQL Server 2014, jQuery, and Bootstrap technologies.  ? Provided production support for mission-critical employee onboarding .NET web application. Recognized as go-to person for consistently fixing high-priority issues in a high-profile environment.  ? Conducted analysis to mitigate data issues related to SQL job failures. Wrote data scripts to remediate missing data.  ? Successfully completed migration of ten .NET software applications from EOP to Department of Defense network within three days.  ? Collaborated with DoD system engineers to set up and test IIS web sites on three additional servers for redundancy and high availability (HA) effort.  ? Prepared complex SQL scripts and stored procedures for Ad-hoc reports. Took the initiative to convert SQL to SSRS reports.  ? Observed SCRUM ceremonies and processes in an Agile environment. Closely worked with team lead on number of stories/points per sprint, SPIKE analysis, and risk analysis. Senior Software Developer FEI Systems - Columbia, MD February 2016 to June 2016 Full-stack .NET developer on Medicare management software for State of Maryland staff  ? Designed low-fidelity mockups for two modules. Collaborated with Business Analysts to deliver high-fidelity MVC prototypes on time despite scope creep.  ? Made immediate contribution to project implementing assigned work orders. Successfully delivered on Sprint tasks and met client acceptance criteria during demos.  ? Performed full-stack development work using .NET MVC 6, Entity Framework 6, and RavenDB NoSQL database technologies.  ? Took on the challenge of working on RavenDB for the first time and made significant strides in a short amount of time to contribute to project.  ? Resolved production issues in a timely manner per SLA and implemented emergency change requests.  ? Provided guidance and leadership to skilled but inexperienced junior team members Senior Applications Developer Sunrise Senior Living Services - McLean, VA August 2014 to December 2015 Designed and maintained mission-critical software applications that support the daily operation of the marketing and HR departments..  ? Lead effort to migrate employee/client information to HIPAA compliant PCC portal. Followed specifications to implement web service client, participated in weekly status update meetings, collaborated with PCC POC to address outstanding issues as needed.  ? Tasked with automating/streamlining the process of sending leads (potential customers) from different partner companies to our marketing and sales teams.  ? Designed WCF and SOAP web services for SOA based system.  ? Designed WCF/Web API applications that leverage Microsoft Dynamics CRM API to pull/push marketing leads from third party partners databases to CRM database.  ? Met the challenge to successfully support this application in an environment where any downtime directly results in loss of opportunities and affects the bottom line.  ? Designed a Windows Console/WCF web services application to streamline the new employee provisioning process. Application interfaced with PointClickCare and ADP external applications.  ? Leveraged C#/.NET 4.0/Web API technologies in a windows service application that sends scheduled visit information to partner's external system every 10 minutes.  ? Built SSIS package that reads email opt-out list from excel sheet on SFTP site and updates CRM database accordingly.  ? Successfully handled collaborating with multiple external parties (4), high availability expectations, working as a team of one. Software Developer Optimal Solutions and Technologies - Washington, DC April 2008 to April 2013 Stabilized, supported, and rewrote the Federal Aviation Agency's (FAA) Automated Inventory Tracking System (AITS) using the .NET stack of technologies  ? Closely supported team lead in requirement analysis, level of effort estimation, and mentoring junior members.  ? In effort to stabilize the application in initial stages of the project, triaged a backlog of 200 tickets. Cleared backlog within a period of 4 months to regain client confidence.  ? Recognized as key contributor to service desk's achievement of 3-day ticket turnaround time per the service level agreement (SLA)  ? Applied reverse engineering and debugging skills to provide code and data fixes to production issues. System usage increased by 50% within a year of inheriting project.  ? Successfully completed the rewrite of six large legacy ASP modules using the .NET stack. Received bonus for delivering on time despite several unexpected challenges.  ? Leveraged SSIS and SSRS technologies to build data marts for reporting needs. The client greenlighted a full data warehouse project after the success of this effort.  ? Followed Capability Maturity Model Integrated (CMMI) best practices in software development activities to improve efficiency and effectiveness.  ? Supported testing activities by deploying code to QA server, setting up test data, and restoring database to mirror database.  ? Prepared and handed off deployment packages to system admin. Packages include consolidated SQL scripts and latest baselined code from TFS code repository. Integration Engineer Prematics Inc - Bethesda, MD July 2007 to March 2008 Work on the development of a ground-breaking e-prescription desktop/web/mobile application for a start-up.  ? Write and test C#/.NET/T-SQL code for E-prescription web application in high-paced agile environment. E-prescription solution reduced human errors by up to 15%.  ? Designed Ruby application that automates and streamlines the process of checking out from inventory, activating, monitoring, and configuring wireless handheld devices.  ? Worked on integration of several open-source tools and applications on a Unix platform. .NET Programmer Paradigm Solutions Inc - Rockville, MD August 2005 to August 2006 Junior programmer with UI design and coding tasks on OpsPlanner, a disaster recovery planning and business continuity software product.  ? Designed wireframe mockups which are converted to HTML prototypes after approval. Used hand coding skill and DreamWeaver tool to complete prototypes ahead of schedule.  ? Promoted from Interface designer intern to .NET programmer within 3 months.  ? ASP.NET web forms, C#, T-SQL coding and code reviewing under the guidance of senior developers.  ? Perform code build and deployment to QA and production environments. Set up new website instances for hosted clients.  ? Perform backup and restore of SQL Server 2000 DBs. Education Master's in Computer Science UMUC - Adelphi, MD December 2016 Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Maryland at College Park - College Park, MD December 2005 Skills .net, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Api, Javascript, Bootstrap, Razor, Wcf, Ado, Database, Ado.net, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Ajax, Iis, Iis 7, Sharepoint, Web services, Html5, Linux Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ March 2017 to April 2021 Initally certified in 2017, upgraded to 2021 in 2019.