Sr .Net Developer Sr .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr .Net Developer - RCS Sound Software New York, NY • Over 11+ years of experience in Web and Client/Server applications using Microsoft .NET Technology, SQL Server, Oracle, C#,ASP.NET, ADO.NET, VB.NET,WCF, ASMX, XML and java script.  • Excellent Experience in Object Oriented Programming.  • Development Methodologies and Tools - MSF Agile, SCRUM, Team Foundation Server 2010, AJAX controls and Kendo UI Web and Mobile.  • Writing SQL triggers/ queries and Stored Procedure. SQL Server-SQL queries coding, Stored Procedures, Functions, and Packages.  • Experience in the development of Enterprise Win forms and Web forms applications using ASP.Net, C#. Net, JavaScript, VBScript, jQuery, ASP, XML and HTML.  • Experience working on 3-Tier, N-Tier Architectures, MVC (Model View Controller), MVVM (Model View, View Model) in applications.  • Experience in developing Client/Server Applications on Three Tier Architecture, N-Tier Architecture, SOA (Service-oriented Architecture), MVC (Model View Controller), and MVP (Model View Presenter) design patterns.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern, Model-View-View Model (MVVM) design patter Team Foundation Server (TFS) and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Good knowledge and skills about designing mobile applications according to the requirements.  • Developed database applications using VB.NET and C# with SQL Server and Microsoft Access as the databases using ADO.NET Components.  • Extensively used Grid view, Details view, Repeater and other ASP.NET server controls for state management in .NET.  • Experience in creating Web Forms, Win Forms, User Controls, and Custom Controls.  • Experience in creating XML Web Services and consuming third party web services in the project.  • Extensive experience in database analysis, design, normalization, and data manipulation processes using SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012 and Oracle.  • Excellent skills in writing stored procedures, T-sql queries, functions, triggers, views and schemas.  • Technical Experience with Microsoft Visual Studio.NET.  • Experience in Multi-tier Architecture development and IIS.  • Experience with sitemap and creating change request CRQ's for any change and Deployments in Remedy 7.  • Experience working as a lead with offshore team.  • Excellent Team player with strong problem solving and troubleshooting skills.  • Excellent educational background and continuously striving to improve current skills and incorporate new skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr .Net Developer RCS Sound Software - White Plains, NY September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, and Testing.  • Understood the whole application thoroughly to bug fix and enhance the application.  • Created thin client Web UI using ASP.NET MVC4 and implemented form validation using JQuery and Knockout and Presentation using View Models  • Server logic is been tracked by network tab  • UI is designed using MVC4, HTML5, Angular JS, grid controls and AJAX Extensions  • Business layer is designed/developed using repository for a better data integration, security and tightly coupled to data controls  • Web API project exposes our RESTful data API. It is consumed by the MMv2 MVC project. Controllers in that project only return data, not views.  • Have used the Localization Helper to access the strings in razor  • The Report generation workflow is exposed to the client logic via a Report runner service, which manages the lifetime of a request for the client and submits it to the back-end by turning it into a JSON string and Posting it to the Report controller.  • The Report Controller is our HTTP-facing API.  • Layout is concretely enforced by a JavaScript library called jquery layout.  • Worked on JQuery that to be used on DOM Manipulations.  • File requests are sent via the Playback Data Manager API, and return a URL pointing to the generated file.  • Derived all data repositories from the Interface to facilitate the Dependency Injection.  • Utilized ADO.NET Entity Framework extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ. Statements, views, User Defined Functions, Stored Procedures for inserting/updating/Deleting the data into the relational tables.  • Responsible for design, Development of Application using C#.Net  • Created custom controls to maintain across the web application.  • Implemented XML Web services.  • Involved in developing reusable and optimized .Net components.  • Implemented Data Access Layer using ADO.Net to communicate With the MS SQL Server 2000 Database.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedures and creating Tables, Views in SQL Server 2000.  • ASP.Net web application and .Net components hosted in Windows 2003.  • Involved in taking Backups, Restoring, Import/Export data using MS SQL Server and DTS.  • Designed and developed Reports by using Crystal report Bundled Version for .Net.  • Developed an independent component for data access, which can be used as generic component for every project. This component generates parameters from stored procedures dynamically and used some overload functions for executing Queries, which ensures the complete N-Tier architecture.  • Created / modified new tables and Stored Procedures in SQL server to save and retrieve the user data.  • Created a Batch Process for multiple user creation which will run daily at a given time and process a file at path location with predetermined format.  • Developed Stored Procedures for updating/expiration dates and purge process for users  • Used Nunit testing framework for performing Unit Testing.  • Co-ordination among different affected groups for Code drops, Testing and Deployment through Conference calls.  • Implemented Unit Testing using MS Unit Testing Framework and Resharper2.0, Participated in System Documentation and Code Documentation  Environment: C#, MVC 4, ASP.NET 4.0/4.5, WCF, AngularJS, NodeJS, AJAX, JSON, Visual Studio 2010/2012/2013,JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, LINQ, TDD, REST, IIS 6.0/7.0, TFS, Agile, SQL Server 2008/2012, Windows XP. Sr.Net Developer C2 Portfolio Essentials Inc May 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, and Development multiple user interface using Win Forms, WPF with MVVM architecture, C#, and .NET Framework for Windows based desktop application, CSS, JavaScript, IIS, C#, ADO.NET.  • Extensively used WPF features for the GUI development.  • Used .net WPF with JavaScript to send asynchronous data from a server to web Application.  • Involved in writing WPF, XAML application in ASP.NET, JavaScript, and MVVM design pattern.  • Created animation Story boards using WPF to denote the user Entry/Exit activities.  • Involved on rewriting WPF, XAML application in ASP.NET MVC, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, and MVVM design pattern.  • Involved in all stages of the software development life cycle includes requirement gathering, design, develop, test and production of our New Hire and Employee portal  • Development includes ASP.NETMVC4, C#, JavaScript, XML, Java Beans, SQL server and Web services  • User Interface is designed using .NET technologies (ASP.NETMVC4, C#) and employee payroll data is being handled by a Java system. Communication between these two systems is done using JavaScript and Web services  • Created thin client Web UI using ASP.NET MVC4 and implemented form validation using JQuery and Presentation using View Models  • Developed dynamic HTML web pages for Application using Razor View Engine, C#.NET, Action Controllers to call Services, XML, XSL/XSLT, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS  • Involved in development of the business layer using C# on the User tier and Java Beans and JSP on the payroll data tier  • Worked on upgrading traditional JavaScript to Object Oriented JavaScript design for better performance and code handling  • Various web services are written for to bridge the gap between .NET to Java systems  • Sessions are used to fasten the user interaction by almost 75%  • Project involves Agile (SCRUM) methodology for its development  • Involved in the design of the database, business layer and the UI  • Extensively involved in consuming the data from Windows services and using LINQ to Objects to filter and present that data to the controls. Some of the controls are constantly updated using new features of WPF to present almost real time data.  • controls have been used to display data and charts with WPF, XAML, C# and ASP.NET, HMTL, CSS, AJAX and JQuery  • Used .NET 4.0 framework and Visual Studio 2010 with all upgraded tools available  • UI is designed using ASP.NETMVC4, HTML5, Angular JS, Telerik controls and AJAX Extensions  • Business layer is designed/developed using repository for a better data integration, security and tightly coupled to data controls  • An automated process is developed for Client Interview screens (process of taking New hire information) to extract form data from PDF to HTML wizard forms  • An appreciated approval/rejection process is designed for better and smoother experience for our client employees.  • Smooth data integration is provided with the system using Business Layer  • Implemented Unit Testing using MS Unit Testing Framework and Resharper2.0, Participated in System Documentation and Code Documentation.  • Agile (SCRUM) methodology made our test project demo made possible for Client Demo purpose  • Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS) for all the source code maintenance needs.  • Responsible for developing the Data access layer using LINQ to SQL and also involved in developing Windows Services.    Environment: C# 4.5, VB.Net 4.5, Win Forms, WPF, XAML, ADO.NET, AJAX, Visual Studio .NET 2012, SQL Server 2005, LINQ, SVN. Sr .Net Developer Thermo Fisher Scientific November 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in full life cycle of the project from requirements gathering, analyzing, designing, and developing the application using Iterative AGILE Methodology.  • Wrote backend code using C# 5.0, hands on experience in creating services for removal, adding and saving.  • Designed and developed an application using Model View Controller (MVC) application framework.  • Experience working with Team Foundation Server.  • Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such as to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the controller.  • Co-ordinate with UX team to help them in designing the page.  • Used Angular, which communicated with a RESTful web service.  • Developed Data Access Layer Using Entity Framework using Repository, Aggregator and Façade Patterns to access data from Azure (SQL and File) storage, also used API calls to enterprise API to get data in case of enterprise data  • Used C#.NET to develop Code for Business and Repository Layer.  • Participated in various client meetings with the team to discuss improvements options during the development of the application.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (SCRUM, KANBAN and Extreme Programming).  • Maintained and designed databases with use of SQL server.  • Made use of KENDO UI to change the grids from normal data grids to kendo grid.  • Interacting with Business Analyst to ensure all the requirements are translated into technical requirements.  • Design, Development using C#, Java Script, AngularJS for the user interface using the Code behind Class technique.  • Experience in using AngularJS, ability to test views and able to do end to end unit testing. Also, using continuous integration  • Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of AngularJS.  • Created test cases for service components.  • Created several Dto's and done entity mapping.  • Extensively worked on NoSQL development for developing applications using Azure.  • Resolved QA bugs for front end and back end.  • Unit tested the service components and participated in regression testing.  Environment: C#, HTML 5, CSS 3, MVC 4, ASP.NET 4.0/4.5, Angular, NodeJS, JSON, Visual Studio 2015, JavaScript, Query, Bootstrap, TFS, Agile, SQL Server 2012, Windows XP. Net Developer American Eagle - Chicago, IL July 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using .Net 3.5, WCF.  • Designed and developed a web based application and component using C# to automatically generate constants by reading and parsing XML source files and schema files.  • Enterprise n-tier software agent using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) Web service hosted on IIS  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using AngularJS, EXTJS, ODATA and JQuery  • Used Dependency Injection Pattern to reduce the dependency coupling between classes. Net Web Developer Azimuth Systems - Acton, MA September 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering and analyzing the requirements from end-user.  • Developed and designed the web pages by using VB.NET, C# and ASP.NET.  • Design and development of user interface using ASP.NET, VB.Net, HTML, JavaScript  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum and Extreme Programming).  • Involved in documenting the process both at the Functional and Technical level using Visio UML.  • Designed User Interface using Asp.net Standard Controls, Win Forms and Ajax Controls.  • Created and Consumed Web Services.  • Worked with ASP.NET MVC application with UI framework AngularJS and used several ASP.NET MVC features like Routing, HTML helpers, Action Filters, Partial Views, etc.  • Created and developed good design for mobile applications.  • Design and make e-statements using mobile applications.  • Design and connect the database with the use of VB.net components.  • Used Entity Framework to act a bridge between the application and Database.  • Created Master pages and CSS files for uniform look across web interface.  • Extensively used ADO.NET objects like Connection, Command, Data Reader, Data Adapter and Dataset.  • Involved in developing components for Business layer and Data Layer, implementation in MVC architecture  • Involved on rewriting Silverlight, XAML application in ASP.NET MVC4, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, and MVVM design pattern  • Created thin client Web UI using ASP.NET MVC4 and implemented form validation using JQuery and Knockout and Presentation using View Models  • Effectively used ASP.NET security infrastructure for authenticating and authorizing user access as well as performing other security related tasks using C#.NET.  • Developed dynamic CSHTML web pages for Application using Razor View Engine, C#.NET, Action Controllers to call Services, XML, XSL/XSLT, HTML, JavaScript.  • Worked with ASP.NET Web Forms, Web Services, and State Management, Caching features, configuring optimizations and securing the web application. Developed the Code-behind files in C#.NET and VB.NET.  • Extensively used third party controls for displaying the data in a clear format.  • Utilized ADO.NET Entity Framework extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ. Statements, views, User Defined Functions, Stored Procedures for inserting/updating/Deleting the data into the relational tables.  • Developed system services SOA application platform for use by all web applications utilizing WCF services to expose that business logic with DAL Domain Objects  • Developed tables, stored procedures, views, functions and triggers to perform automated rules, updating to related tables in SQL Server 2008/2010.  • Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS) for all the source code maintenance needs.  • Implemented Unit Testing using MS Unit Testing Framework and Resharper2.0, Participated in System Documentation and Code Documentation  • Created WCF Service which is responsible for communicating and providing real time data from Database to Client Application.  • Created Stored Procedures, functions, T-SQL queries in the SQL server.  • Created Proxy for WCF Test Client Application using Service Reference to test the WCF service by QA team.  • Used Entity Framework for data retrieving, querying and storage.  • Designed Console Application, which connects to the client FTP server and pulls the .CSV files to our database after the proper validation.  • Troubleshot the problems and fixed bugs through client requests, and QA.  • Participated in client meetings to discuss improvement options for the development of the application.  • Objects are developed using Oops Concepts in Windows forms.  • Dbml is used for designing and mapping the .net objects to the linq objects.  • Mechanical raw data from excel is uploaded in access DB then imported into share point site.  • Meetings and calls with Business is attended to understand the flow of data.  Environment: .Net Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2010, ASP.NET 4.0, C#.Net3.5,VB.NET, HTML5 ,CSS3, JavaScript, J-Query, Web Services WCF, SQL SERVER 2008/2010, SSIS, SSRS, VSS,TFS, MVC3.0 and 4.0, UML, C#. NET Developer Wise Men Consultants - Houston, TX June 2010 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed applications based on departmental requirements and specifications.  • Prepared and executed test scenarios to test the functionality of the application.  • Submitted weekly status reports to Application Lead.  • Used ADO.NET for database connectivity to SQL server.  • Created/Modified the Stored Procedures in SQL server.  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, and Testing.  • MSSQL Server is used to create the databases and those databases are integrated in Application.  • Maintained and designed databases with use of SQL server.  • Designed and developed complete front-end application using Classic ASP /VB Web Forms.  • Worked on parsing and editing XML documents by validating it to the schema using class libraries provided by .NET.  • Designed and developed several SQL Server stored procedures for all the DML functionality for the web site.  • Involved in System and Integration Testing.  • Understood the whole application thoroughly to bug fix and enhance the application.  • Reflection is used for reverse engineering.  • Understood the whole application thoroughly to bug fix and enhance the application.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C# .NET  • Gathering the Requirements from Client, analyzing them and proposing solutions.  • Interacted with Bussiness, Discussed bugs, enhancement requests.  • Used Javascript and JQuery for better performance and interaction.  • Developed Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for User Interface uniformity throughout the application.  • Involved in customizing the Web Forms Data grid for GUI  • Created DAL for retrieving the data from SQL server  • Searching for a company depending on various search criteria is implemented.  • Created a button, email with the validations for Tools Application using Razor View Engine, VB.NET, Action Controllers to call Services, XML, XSL/XSLT, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS  • Notification Text was missing from Chrome in the Disapprove Email and added a Jquery Validations to avoid browser compatibility issues.  • Added Jquery code and also increased the char size at backend for the full text message in the pop up box should be visible in the email on the browsers Chrome and IE.  • Web services with header and footer have been used in each and every application.  • DSS- CCR has some performance issues like export the data on excel file and also on the report its taking more than 3 min where it supposed to be a min or less as expected. So, changes were expecting both in front end with the filters and back end with the queries.  • Developed SP to retrieve the data from server that is been saving into Informix server.  • Extensively used BMC Remedy IT Management service to Create CRQs / service requests for deploying the sql object from Development environment to Pilot and then to Production.  Environment: Visual Studio, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#, HTML, CSS, XML, IIS, JavaScript, SQL Server, Master Pages, VSS, MSSQL Server. Jr. Software Engineer ASRC Federal - Moorestown, NJ January 2008 to May 2010 Responsibilities:    • Used agile methodology for the development.  • Built User Interface with various UI technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, etc.  • Used simplified client and server side validation, better session management and powerful data access management using ASP.NET.  • Worked as UI Designer and Developer for the Web application using HTML5, C# and ASP.NET.  • Used AJAX Controls to increase the responsiveness of the web application, used AJAX Toolkit for user Interface Development.  • Used ADO.Net to perform the Create, Retrieve, Update, Delete operations on the database.  • Participated in database modeling and development using SQL Server, Stored Procedures, Packages and Functions.  • Created DTO's and DAO's in the data access layer to perform data transactions.  • Design and implementation of tables, stored procedures, triggers, views, PL/SQL statements for database operations using ADO. NET.  • Data Access layer is implemented using ADO.NET to Communicate with the Oracle Database and to access, update the data in the database.  • Deployed and maintained ASP.NET applications running at IIS 6.0.  • Created Deployment projects for .NET applications using Microsoft's MSI packages.  • Involved in resolving operational problems and systems failures by directing and/or performing systems audits, analyzing problems and developing clear, concise methods for resolution.  • Involved in Feature testing and Regression testing, bug tracking and defect management.  Environment:ASP.Net 1.1/1.0, C#.Net, ADO.Net, .Net Framework 2.0/1.1, HTML, XML, XSLT, Windows 2003, SQL Server 2005/2000, UML. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License