Sr. Software Developer (Lead) Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Lead) Sr. Software Developer (Lead) - Dominion Enterprises Township of Liberty, OH ? Accomplished Microsoft .Net Architect, and Full Stack Developer with over 12 years of full life cycle development experience in Design, Development and Implementation of Client-Server Applications, windows and Web Application (C#/ASP.net), Web Services, RESTful Api, in P&C Insurance, Retailing and Automotive verticals.  ? Proven technical leadership experience for enterprise development and complex software solution that meets varying business requirements. Succeeded in various roles in the career span as Scrum Master, Developer, Tech Lead, Business Analyst, Architect and onshore-offshore coordinator  ? Achieved excellent industry experience in various Software engineering concepts like Object oriented programming (OOPS), ORM, RDBMS, SOA, design patterns, SDLC like waterfall, Agile Scrum, SOLID Principles etc. Excellent code reviewer, debugger and performance maintenance in SQL commands, Stored procedures, functions and indexes.  ? Proven ability to develop influential relationships with business owner/users, Integration and service vendors, which helps to significantly increase in delivery turnaround time, identify opportunities and critical problems, business requirement and process improvements.  ? Self-motivated and possess ability for critical thinking, analysis, excellent interpersonal and communication skills. Team-oriented and creative. User oriented with a desire to learn the client's business requirements. Work Experience Sr. Software Developer (Lead) Dominion Enterprises - Cincinnati, OH August 2016 to Present Jira, Git, Team City 2016 to 2017 Project: Disaster Recovery (2016, 2017, 2018), Application upgrade to .NET Framework 4.6, Continuous integration, Unit Test framework for existing projects in .net and ColdFusion, Android Apps, continuous Integration Implementation for 10 major products (Jira, Git, Team City). Integrating application with NoSQL Couchbase and SOA Rest APIs, End to End Offline data collection mobile solution.  Tasks performed:  ? Practice Agile scrum methodology for MVP (minimum viable product) development process.  ? Design and Develop software systems with various Microsoft technologies and ensure compliance to all architecture requirements. Coordinate with various departments and analyze requirements of architectural team.  ? Participate in architectural meetings and analyze all technical requirements for .NET applications.  ? Research and present ideas for system improvements, including cost proposals, Perform business partner demo on various prototypes.  ? Collaborate in the identification, assessment and resolution of application enhancement and defects, Maintaining the systems once they are up and running.  ? Participate and conduct reviews and meetings and provide updates on project progress. Ensure awareness, involvement and support from the key stakeholders and participants by building strong project team and maintaining robust communication on the project status throughout its life cycle.  ? Assist enterprise architecture team on all governance activities and Establish architectural methodology of all deliverables.  ? Work closely with product owner internally and relevant team externally to ensure alignment and coordination across operations. as part of the seamless implementation of existing and new project resource scheduling and department capacity planning.  Environment: C#.Net, ASP.Net Core, WebApi, HTML,CSS, Web Services, WCF, Visual Studio - 2005/ 2008 /2015/2017, Git , MSSQL 2005/2008/2012, T-SQL, SSIS, ADO.Net, Entity Framework and Cold-Fusion, RxJava, Azure, Team City, Couchbase, NoSQL (N1QL), Sync-Gateway. Software Engineering Sr. Analyst Accenture September 2013 to August 2016 Project: SWAT- 4, McKinney Audit release, Encryption implementation, Medicare integration with CMS, NMVTIS and ISO, Document automations, Financials Reporting, T360 legal Vendor billing, Customer portal and mobile application, Adjuster Licensing and Various others and production support 26 releases(quarterly).  Tasks performed:  ? Create Design, workflow diagram, technical specification document and code modules using the Microsoft .NET framework according to the business specification documents and unit test that code using ASP.net, VB.net, c#, MVC, WCF.  ? Was single point of contact (SPOC) for both the offshore as well as onsite team. Managed client expectations within managed services contract.  ? Eliciting customer requirements, defining limits to project scope, and developing/reviewing statement of work with Accenture leadership for final approval.  ? Research and present ideas for system improvements, including cost proposals, Perform client Demo on various prototypes, PoVs. also, Preparation of training manuals for users.  ? Assist in the identification, assessment and resolution of application enhancement and defects, Maintaining the systems once they are up and running.  ? Participate and conduct reviews and meetings and provide updates on project progress. Ensure awareness, involvement and support from the key stakeholders and participants by building strong project team and maintaining robust communication on the project status throughout its life cycle.  ? As in the role of Technical Lead Perform/manage complex analysis, designing and programming to meet business requirements and resolve business requirements and objectives.  ? Work closely with relevant teams internally and externally to ensure alignment and coordination across operations as part of the seamless implementation of existing and new project and supporting project resource scheduling and department capacity planning Participation in and effectiveness of peer review.  ? Design, review and assist in creating Stored Procedures, Views, User Defined Functions, Indexes triggers, write Subqueries and Joins for complex queries involving multiple tables and Exception Handlers, create tables ensure normalization.  Environment: VB.Net, C#.Net, ASP.Net 2.0/3,5, HTML, CSS, Web Services, WCF, Microsoft Visual Studio 2005/2008/2012, Team Foundation Server (TFS), MSSQL 2005/2008, T-SQL, SSIS, ADO.Net, XML, Soup UI, Event Log, Google Analytics, FirstBest UMS, Duck creek Author. Software Engineering Sr. Analyst Accenture August 2010 to September 2013 Project: CR3 and CR4 release, Production support, Windows 7 Migration, 6 quarterly releases and production support releases  Tasks performed:  ? Applying best design patterns such as n-tier, Repository, and Singleton for designing key reusable components. Create code modules using the Microsoft .NET technologies (C#.net, VB.net, ASP.net, MVC, WCF) framework according to the specification documents and unit test that code and Deliver configuration as per quality standards.  ? Assisted and supported in upkeep and maintenance of web sites. Research and propose software programs that are compatible with the future technologies.  ? Fixed bugs troubleshoot and resolve problem, Maintain Service level Agreement (SLA).  ? Work with the Application Architect during the construction process so that the modules conform to technical architecture guidelines.  ? Design, review and assist in creating Stored Procedures, Views, User Defined Functions, Indexes triggers, write Subqueries and Joins for complex queries involving multiple tables and Exception Handlers, create tables ensure normalization.  ? On time delivery as derived from project schedules, Plan, prioritize and schedule own work and assist project manager.  Environment: VB.Net, C#.Net, ASP.Net 2.0/3,5, HTML, CSS, Web Services, WCF, Microsoft Visual Studio 2005/2008/2012, TFS, MS SQL 2005/2008, T-SQL, SSIS, ADO.Net, XML, Soup UI, Event Log. Senior Developer Worldwide Software Export August 2007 to August 2010 Tasks performed:  ? Involved in analysis, design, estimates and Code requirements per technical specification.  ? Reviewed the code. Design, develop, test and deploy web applications and assist and support in the upkeep and maintenance of web sites. Research and propose software programs that are compatible with the future technologies. Fix bugs, troubleshoot and resolve problems.  ? Created C#.Net libraries to encapsulate the business logic, Write N-Unit Test for the class libraries and Implement Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). Used Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) to expose business logic as services and consumed from client application. Defined service contracts.  ? Validated the state of the database and perform root cause analysis of any issues incurred and Handle multiple exception formats based on severity and priority to gives alerts into Email, text files etc.  Environment: VB.Net, C#.Net, ASP.Net 2.0, HTML, CSS, WCF, Microsoft Visual Studio 2005/2008, SVN, MSSQL 2005, T-SQL, ADO.Net, XML Education Computer Technology C-DAC 2007 Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Jabalpur Engineering College - Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh 2001 to 2005 Skills .NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, C#, C/C++, C++, Git, RAZOR, WCF, ORM, SCRIPTING, SVN, VB.NET, XML, AJAX, ASP, COLD FUSION, CSS, ASP.NET Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/abhishek-chouksey-profile/ Additional Information Skills and Awards:  ? Languages: C#/.NET, VB.NET, ASP.NET, C/C++.  ? Frameworks and Libraries: .Net Framework v2.0, v3.0, v3.5, v4.0, Asp.NET Core, WCF, RESTful WebApi, MVC, IoC, Nunit, Log4Net, Mocking frameworks, Couchbase Sync Gateway (SGW).  ? Scripting: XHTML, XML, jQuery, VB Script, Ajax, CSS, Razor  ? Concepts/ Methodology: OOPs, ORM, RDBMS, OOAD, UML, OS, SDLC, NoSQL (N1QL Couchbase), Software Engineering. Agile Scrum.  ? Databases: MS SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012, MySQL, NoSQL, N1QL, CouchDB, Oracle9i.  ? Development Tools: Fx-Cop, Ms-Build, Soap UI, Fiddler, Postman, Microsoft Visual studio, 2008/2010/2015/2017, FirstBest UMS, AICS (Accenture claim) and Duck creek (content developer)  ? Versioning Tools: GIT, SVN, Visual source safe (VSS), TFS (Team Foundation Services).Others/Hands on: Power shell, Cold Fusion, SSRS, SSIS.