Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer • Experience with ASP.NET both in C# and VB  • Experience with Data Management tools such as SSIS, SSRS, Crystal Reports, and Datastage IBM  • Experience with Application Development and web technologies (HTML, CSS, BOOTSTRAP, Restful API, XML, JSON)  • Healthcare background  • TSQL  • Experience writing SQL scripts, Stored Procedures, Function, building tables  • Experience with Version Control(TFS, Azure Devops, Tortoise SVN, Eclipse)  • Experience with Window Services Work Experience Developer Matheson Trucking, Inc - Sacramento, CA September 2015 to April 2019 Managed and developed end to end projects and reports using ETL process, API, C#, ASP.NET, VB, Windows Services, SSRS reports, and SSIS through SQL SERVER and Visual Studio 2013  ? Automated manual reports from LoadTrek using C#, API, Visual Studio 2013, SSRS to be utilized by Postal Operations executives and Terminal supervisors.  ? Built SSRS reports to manage Postal Trucking needs  ? Built a dashboard in SSRS to combine multiple reports that show total number of Accidents, Injuries, Employee Hours, Employee Overtime Hours, etc. This is an important reporting tool for the day to day trucking operations.  ? Involved in SQL development that includes creating tables, functions, stored procedures, jobs for web applications.  ? Maintained existing inhouse applications; responsible for bug fixes and modification for any feature enhancements  ? Developed programs to support Maintenance and Safety teams to help streamline their manual processes such as entering their preferred vendors or creating a list of temporary drivers.  ? Used ETL process to load data from Loadtrek and load it to the system for reporting purposes and web applications.  ? Built multiple SSRS reports using Visual Studio to compare reports on Postal schedules and Trip Cost Summary.  ? Created a postal management site to display KPI reports that require feedback from terminal managers. Programmer Analyst Cares Community Health - Sacramento, CA 2013 to September 2015 Manage and maintain weekly, monthly, quarterly and yearly reports for state and federal grants reporting purposes using Cyrstal Reports, SQL, and Patient Health Management software  ? Create on demand reports, writing queries against SQL Server  ? Managing software projects for the Dental Department and provide software training to dental staff using EDR dental application  ? Build and modify Crystal Reports for clinic wide use covering multiple clinical departments  ? Main project resource for the setup and interface implementation of RADNET (XRAY Lab/Imaging services) using the NextGen EHR Application  ? Built a report that helps the Finance team evaluate productivity based on visit type  ? Provide IT and EMR support to all system end-users  ? Regularly collaborate with software vendors to resolve issues with multiple software systems used throughout the company  ? Liaise with Department Management to resolve any workflow issues concerning the EHR and EDR software applications  ? Develop and maintain custom templates on EHR application Contingent worker/ Software Developer Intel - Folsom, CA July 2012 to December 2013 • Created a standalone application to display all the devices that belong to a collection when user right-clicks on the remote application called Spectrum. The app uses Web Services API to request data from a remote application called OneClick, parses xml response, and displays all the network devices based on a network group site.  • Created a C# application to automate Global Collections hierarchy. These collections are containers based on site. The app generates request using Web Services API to pull all global collections data and sends response to an xml file. Using LINQ, the response is evaluated and builds a query against the database to retrieve the network team that owns the collection. The output is then sent to a file that lists the team and its global collection.  • Created tables to store all the network team managers and their corresponding team groups based on location using SQL Server 2008. Contingent worker/ Software Developer Intel - Folsom, CA January 2013 to April 2013 Provide support to Intel Architectural Group track system that tracks bugs, pre-sightings, or sightings found on INTEL products. This tool handles projects globally and can be customized based on the project's needs. I work individually on multiple projects requiring modification, bug fixes, feature enhancements, or business rules changes on the page or in the database. Each project assignment goes through software development life cycle and I am responsible from the beginning until end. Tools used include Visual Studio 2008, TFS 2008, SQL Server 2008 RU and project's API. Software Developer Cology - Rancho Cordova, CA February 2011 to April 2012 • Worked on the Servicing Integration project to create UI screens that will display loans per account using Telerik RadGrid and RadMenuItem in ASP.NET.  • Worked on the Certification project to display Request date, Request Pending flag on screens for loans that require certification.  • Designed and implemented an extraction and generation of several output files for the guarantor of loans that are being serviced in Volta Loan Servicing.  • Designed and implemented a Contact Suppression flag that indicates whether a borrower wants to be contacted by phone, mail, or email for Volta Loan Servicing.  • Implemented code triggers to print out the monthly billing statement and skip trace notification letters for borrowers, references, or co-borrowers.  • Implemented objects to be utilized for printing business letters such as billing statements, welcome letter, and skip letter. Also implemented multiple DAO classes, web services to generate WSDLs.  • Modified the CSV import process to maintain counts of received, successful and failed records and include this count on the report. ETL Developer VSP - Rancho Cordova, CA December 2008 to February 2011 Key accomplishments included designing, developing and implementing a data quality application using IBM Datastage. Developed jobs using Join, Merge, XML input, Transformer, Funnel, DB2Connector, DB2Enterprise, Copy, Filter. Associate Application Developer CoreLogic - Rancho Cordova, CA April 2007 to December 2008 • Responsible for setting up logon accounts for new clients.  • Set up profiles for clients using SQL  • Worked with clients to customize entry-pages and report pages using JSP, HTML, XML, and SQL  • Production support, troubleshooting misconfigurations and resolving defects.  • Created a program to map Java Objects to a database table using Ibatis. Programmer/DB analyst Family Direct Insurance Services - Folsom, CA July 2006 to April 2007 • Successfully created and implemented an IT help-desk solution using Visual Basic and SQL. This system allows the company to track IT support issues, monitor their status, and provide better customer service to our end-users.  • Worked with the executive team to create reports that provide better visibility of weekly corporate earnings and statistical analysis of raw data. This project allows our executive team to react quickly to any changes in customer trends.  • Implemented SQL stored procedures to manipulate strings of raw data, thus saving end-users hours of data entry corrections.  • Successfully developed an Access application used to pre-screen our customers, and log the information for future data mining. This application is utilized by our Customer Service Representatives. A series of reports were also developed for this project.  • Provide General IT support as needed to the business application and to end-users in general. Recruiter/Student Intern Delegata - Sacramento, CA April 2005 to August 2006 Provided assistance with project repository and libraries. Student Intern DMV - Sacramento, CA February 2006 to July 2006 • Successfully created an ANT script for the Vehicle Registration (VR) Enhancements Team to automate the process by which they notify their data center that new: EJB JAR, WAR, and EAR files have been deployed and are awaiting installation. This email script was integrated into pre-existing ANT deployment scripts which generates deployment information and instructions required by the data center for installations of deployment files.  • Created a java program that generates a report for the VR Enhancements Team to provide them with test coverage statistics for integration, user, and system test. This application uses xml based response logs and translates them into an object from which fee codes are extracted and accumulated using HashMap and ArrayList classes in Java. Skills SQL SERVER, SQL, VISUAL STUDIO, HTML, BOOTSTRAP