Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Austin, TX Full stack software developer with 10 years of experience. Full cycle product developer  experience, from concept to production, including multiple releases. Experience as team leader,  responsible for roadmap delivery. Capacity to work as individual contributor or team member. My  ability and permanent interest in new technologies has allowed me to work in innovation, start-up  and product prototype teams.  Experience with those technologies: Database, SOAP and RESTful services, Java, Android,  Visual Studio (C# and VB), JavaScript, HTML, GIS, multithreading and Integration with  communication platforms. Work Experience Software Developer VM2020 - Fremont, CA January 2018 to Present PRODUCT: CyberVR is a patent-pending realistic simulation platform that lets you manipulate near-exact copies of your datacenter to accelerate your risk management cycle in hyperconverged environments.  Contribution: Designed database and backend architecture. Designed and implemented the product RESTful service API with MVC pattern. Software Developer January 2017 to Present PRODUCT: EZDR is an automated Disaster Recovery orchestrator  specially developed for SimpliVity federations. It delivers Recovery Time  January 2017 - Present Capability of mere minutes for entire systems. EZDR makes evident to CIOs and CFOs the risk mitigation benefits of hyperconverged  infrastructure.  www.vm2020.com Contribution: Redesigned the product architecture to make it service  based, enabling support for multiple front-ends moving forward.  Implemented multithreading in the main engine to accelerate the application and support asynchronous tasks. Implemented code  instrumentation for error logs.    Currently, developing new product called CyberVR focused on cybersecurity. Product Manager VIKXIO S.A.S - Medellin - Colombia March 2013 to June 2015 PRODUCT: VSF is a Real time visualization framework based on a web  services architecture. Integrates georeferenced information and WebRTC  communications. The front-end was written in HTML5 and JavaScript.  GPM This product allows the integration of third party applications, own  March 2013 - June 2015 applications and external features in a single interface; It offers improved productivity using visualization and personalized business processes  oriented to operations management, providing agile and fast access to information.  Contribution: Design, architecture and implementation of end-user mobile  applications (Android OS. Functions included location, camera  management, notifications and messaging exchange). Developed the web  application UI based in real-time information streaming and interactive pop- ups. . Wrote back-end Restful services that connected to a MYSQL  database and consumed those services from the mobile application for bi- directional information transferring. Responsible for the implementation  process with end-customers Product Manager AXEDE S.A June 2011 to February 2013 Innovation and new product development Team)  PRODUCT: Interaxion Web and Interaxion Desktop are Unified  Communications platforms that enable a safe, fast and intuitive way to manage communications, enhancing productivity and reducing operating  June 2011 - February 2013 cost. Libranzas Davivienda Solution that combines communications and software. This product automated the collections process for a banking  www.axede.com.co customer. It can monitor and manage the process in a quick, simple and effective way, supporting external systems such as Genesys.  Contribution: Distribute load in the team and motivate each of the members of the project. Plan and implement schedule aligned with the roadmap.  Support the team in the development and testing of major components and interact with L2 support team. Identify, manage and mitigate the risk during the lifecycle of the project. Software Developer AXEDE S.A June 2007 to June 2011 PRODUCT: Xynthesis, Solution for unified communication services that enables the graphical analysis and business intelligence of telephone  consumption patterns based on PBX reports.  www.axede.com.co  Contribution: Develop and test use case model. Provide technical  information for the project documentation. End customer installation.  Support test cases, development and execution of those requiring specific  technical knowledge. Education Full-Stack Web Developer Bootcamp UCI Berkeley Extension - Berkeley, CA March 2018 to August 2018 Management of Innovation Pontificia Bolivariana University - Medellín, Antioquia January 2012 to June 2013 BS in Systems Engineering Envigado University - Medellín, Antioquia January 2002 to December 2008