Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Illuminate Education Lake Forest, CA Work Experience Software Engineer Illuminate Education - Irvine, CA July 2017 to Present I build applications that allow allow Illuminate Education to manage, deploy, and remove instances of our software in the cloud. This includes architecting and building user interfaces. I also architect  and build microservices, usually written in Go, to replace the functionality of Illuminate  Education's main software product, written in PHP, thereby facilitating greater reliability, scalability, and testability. Senior Developer Ender Technology Corporation - Torrance, CA May 2013 to Present I have been involved in all stages of the software process. I have built extremely complex systems from the ground up. I also maintain and upgrade existing systems. One of my greatest work  accomplishments was building the Nutriliving Drupal/Magento hybrid site. I had to come up with  some innovative solutions to provide single sign on for both platforms as well as deal with payment processing. I am a firm believer in strong documentation so when I come back to  something, I know exactly where I left off. This is also a huge benefit for the next person to handle the project. It allows them to quickly get up to speed on a project and saves time and resources. I  have extensive experience with the Symfony framework. I worked on a very large time card  application for production companies that was built on Symfony. Crew Chief America's Tire Company - Riverside, CA April 2005 to February 2013 I changed and balanced tires. I repaired tires. I also ran the service bays. It was my job to pull  vehicles in for service and assign technicians to a vehicle. I would release vehicles to customers and ensure that they were completely satisfied with our service before leaving. Communicating  with customers is where I excelled. Customers would come in ask for me by name to work on their  cars. I got several reviews submitted online that mentioned me by name. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in enterprise and internet engineering California State University - Fullerton, CA December 2017 Associates of Arts in General Education in General Education Chaffey College - Rancho Cucamonga, CA May 2009 CCNA Chaffey College Skills Javascript, Vue.js, Php, Symfony, Software development, Database, Mysql, Postgresql, jquery, Version control, Linux, Frameworks, Css, Mac, Wordpress Additional Information Skills  I am a very competent and well versed web developer. Through my professional career, I have  developed strong troubleshooting and problem solving skills. I am a self driven individual capable  of working alone or in a team environment. I pay great attention to detail which helps me not only  in software development, but also in effectively communicating with my coworkers. I have had the  opportunity to build projects from the ground up as the chief architect and developer. In addition, I  have come into well established projects to maintain and extend them. I am very comfortable  working in the terminal, whether that be for version control or remote server configuration.    ? Programming Languages: PHP, Go, Javascript, C++, C#, Python  ? Web Frameworks: Symfony, Magento, Drupal, Wordpress  ? Frontend Technologies: jQuery, Vue.js, SCSS, LESS, CSS  ? Database Technologies: PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQLite    ? Operating Systems: Linux, Mac OS, Windows  ? Testing: PHPUnit, Behat