Software Development Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Engineer Lead Software Engineer Seattle, WA Work Experience Software Development Engineer Amazon - Seattle, WA 2018 to Present q Part of a team owning the end-to-end Literature QA experience for Alexa customers. The team is responsible for gathering data from multiple teams and services, curate it, make it available to customers through Alexa.  q Manage the ingestions of data compiled from Catalogs and other sources into the answering engines.  q Improve the quality of answers by leveraging multiple data sources.  q Help Alexa be more tolerant of ASR (Automatic Speech Recognition) errors, by feeding high quality aliases into answering engines used by Alexa.  q Productionize the ML based Intent Classifier developed by the team. The effort involved understanding the various systems and working around data-access-enforcement regulations of handling customer's critical data. Lead Software Developer ANSYS, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA 2017 to 2018 q Lead Software Developer for the team responsible for managing the meshing requirements of industry-leading  electromagnetic simulation products: Maxwell, SIwave, Q3D Extractor.  q Responsible for executing the various phases of SDLC of development of entire line of meshing products at Ansys  Electronic Business Unit.  q Principal developer of Geomproc: the comprehensive 2D geometry processor, and Assembly-Meshing feature for HFSS (the leading flagship product of the Ansys Electromagnetics).  q Plan, architect and perform the complex development activities for the meshing products and libraries.  q Perform complex bug verification, release testing. Guarantee regression-free development of meshes through periodic management of test suites.  q Leverage industry expertise in overseeing multiple areas of triangular and tetrahedral mesh generation:  - Mesh generation and process;  - Mesh simplification and de-featuring;  - Matching meshes at boundaries;  - Re-meshing and mesh deformation for moving objects representation;  - Comparison and verification methods  - Third-party geometries translation.  - Parallelize the various tasks within the meshing process  q Initiator and Lead Developer in performance optimization and enhancement  - Profiling, Algorithm analysis, Identify deficiencies  - Implementing various software optimization mechanisms like caching, roll-back, memory-pooling etc.  - Parallelization  q Carry out wide-ranging duties, including the following:    1|P a g e  - 13789 NE 10th Pl, Apt 19204, Seattle, WA 98005 ( 412.726.1505: iambhanu@gmail.com  - Formulating fast bug reproduction mechanisms  - Code refactoring for common sections extraction and code reuse minimization  - Organization of updated solutions and project files, along with the developers' documentation.  - Mentor new and junior members to spur their productivity Senior Software Developer Ansoft Corporation 2008 to 2017 Software Engineer, Mesh Generation Group Ansoft Corporation 2001 to 2008 Graduate Research Assistant Mississippi State University - Starkville, MS 1999 to 2001 Education Masters of Science in Computational Engineering in Computational Engineering Mississippi State University - Starkville, MS Bachelor of Technology in Aerospace Engineering in Madras Indian Institute of Technology - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills Java, Javascript, Linux, C++ (10+ years), Python, C, JUnit, Perl, Visual Studio, Git, Agile, Scrum, Windows, Unix Administration Additional Information Systematic, performance-focused, and detail-oriented professional, offering comprehensive experience in business  process design, program and project management, and application development. Expert at meshing algorithms, data  structures, and software engineering; complemented with analytical and problem-solving capabilities in determining  root causes and resolving complex situations. Armed with outstanding ability to lead, motivate, and work with high-  caliber teams of professionals to ensure successful attainment of goals.