Web Application Developer Web Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Independent Consultant - Web Development/ JavaScript, E-Commerce, IT San Diego, CA I am a strongly educated, versatile, self taught, and extremely motivated JavaScript & PHP focused Full-Stack developer with many years of personal experience creating dynamic interactive web applications. I am proficient in the following, but not limited to:  JavaScript, PHP using MVC frameworks with working knowledge of jquery, angularjs, css3 and html5. I adhere to coding standards to create extensible and scalable code. My knowledge goes beyond programming as I have over 10 years experience owning and operating my own business, creating websites for brands I've created and manufactured (OEM). I also have a considerable amount of experience in product management on e-commerce platforms. Work Experience Web Application Developer Independent Consultant - San Diego, CA March 2004 to Present Owner / Developer TSV Investments, Inc 2004 to Present Business Growth ? Developed and started company from the ground up to 6 figure sales annually.    Market Research ? Continually research current market trends to find out where sales opportunities are.    Software Creation ? Created backend invoicing system from the ground  up. Starting from a bare linux server to database  design to code development to deployment.    Report Coding ? Created reporting system to get daily, monthly and annual sales information.    API Integration ? Integrate invoicing system into Amazon/Ebay API's to gather customer data for reports and customer  retention.  Tim C. Vick PHP Developer t.vickc@gmail.com | 858-245-8091 | San Diego, CA 92127 Software Engineer Shaw Binary Systems 2002 to 2004 Software Integration ? Integrated custom BEX CMS backend system into existing clients websites    Maintenance ? Troubleshot and debugged previous code errors.    Collaboration / Creation ? Worked together with 2 other engineers to create  new software and features for clients Education B.S. in Computer Science California State University - San Marcos, CA 2000 to 2002 University of California - Santa Barbara, CA 1996 to 2000 Bishop O'Dowd High School - Oakland, CA 1992 to 1996 Additional Information SKILLS & QUALIFICATIONS:    ? PHP 5/7 ? OOP ? MVC Design ? JavaScript  ? PHP Frameworks ? Interfaces Patterns  ? ( Laravel, Symfony ) ? Services ? Repositories  ? Entity Managers ? Dependency Injection ? Models  ? Events ? Composer ? Caching  ? Message Queues ? JSON ? Validation  ? Sqlite3 ? Normalisation ? JSONP  ? SQL ? Joins ? MySql  Explains/Optimization ? Query Caching ? Indexes  ? Query Views ? Ajax ? SQL Relations  ? AngularJS Basics ? Asynchronous Calls ? JQuery Basics  ? API Consuming ? SSH ? SCP  ? Linux Command Line ? Git ? Black Belt Ninja  Skills  Tim C. Vick JavaScript/ PHP Developer t.vickc@gmail.com | 858-245-8091 | San Diego, CA 92127