Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer - Cal-Tech Media Canton, OH Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Cal-Tech Media - Canton, OH January 2019 to Present Wrote responsive web sites using Google Materialize CSS, Bootstrap, React and AngularJS, .NET Framework 4.7.2  and .NET Core.  ? Used Entity Framework code-first approach to set up forms authentication using .NET Core Identity.  ? .NET Core Identity coded with MySQL, Azure and SQL Server databases.  ? Used Git as source control mechanism tying into BitBucket for repository.  ? Work in Agile SCRUM environment using Jira to track current sprints and tickets.  ? Acting as direct contact for support for multiple clients in the US. Sr. Software Engineering Consultant TimkenSteel - Canton, OH December 2018 to April 2019 Assisting in planning, design, development and testing of document automation workflows.  ? Developing software to feed a Dynamics 365 application with an OnBase system.  ? Built C# class to allow communication of OnBase API to other internal web applications. Lead Software Developer Liberty HealthShare - Canton, OH April 2017 to November 2018 Performed upgrading and maintenance to an existing ASP.NET application integrated with SalesForce  ? Wrote Windows application to migrate SalesForce object data to a new mySQL database in order to move off of the SalesForce platform.  ? Wrote and maintained new ASP.NET MVC application, web API and MySQL database after moving away from SalesForce Software Engineer ImageSoft, Inc - Southfield, MI July 2016 to November 2016 Worked with Hyland OnBase API to develop software that extends OnBase functionality to allow electronic  signature of documents for use by government institutions.  ? Wrote Windows Forms application using C# for testing the OnBase Unity API to measure and report performance of various functionality of the API itself in order to help locate performance bottlenecks.  ? Worked on ASP.NET MVC application with AngularJS to build CMS application for clients to maintain their custom  web applications. Lead Software Developer National Inventors HOF - North Canton, OH January 2016 to June 2016 Took over development of a large scale, multi-tier, public facing web application written in ASP.NET MVC 5 (C#), Knockout JS, jQuery, Bootstrap & Entity Framework (SQL Server), using Git as the source control platform.  ? Coordinated development between original developer using BitBucket to share code.  ? Implemented and managed internal development using FogBugz as the ticket system.  ? Managed project development and UAT testing initiatives.  ? Mentored junior developer in development of new functionality. Software Developer IV Kenan Advantage Group, Inc - North Canton, OH July 2014 to December 2015 In charge of Field Imaging using AnyDoc (an OnBase Product) as well as other imaging software  ? Developed ASP.NET MVC 4 & MVC 5 applications using C#, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, CSS3 and HTML5.  ? Assumed Technical Lead and Solutions Architect on several projects.  ? Wrote web application to pull imaging data from Pegasus Imaging System. This eliminated the need for end users  to have to print them manually and re-scan them into the imaging system.  ? Used Bing Maps API along with tracking data from Omnitracs to map relative truck locations on Bing maps.  ? Supported existing internal workflows for customer orders.  ? Used Octopus Deploy to automate web application publishing.  ? Tested, maintained and supported customer interfaces used in business workflow. Sr. Programmer / Analyst The Timken Company - Canton, OH October 2011 to July 2014 Developed web applications using ASP, ASP.NET, .NET Framework 2.0 - 4.5 using C# and VB.Net, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS and HTML.  ? Maintained and provided end user support for several internal web applications.  ? Wrote several .NET web services for use with internal applications.  ? Served as Server Administrator in charge of upgrading and maintaining more than 10 web / application servers with OS's ranging from Windows Server 2003 to Windows Server 2012.  ? Upgraded multiple internal web application servers from Windows Server 2003 to Windows Server 2008R2  ? Supported OnBase end users with various technical, installation and software issues.  ? Developed new programming and design standard for all OnBase web pages. Programmer Analyst Aultman Hospital - Canton, OH December 2010 to May 2011 Developed .NET 3.5 and 4.0 web sites utilizing ASP.NET MVC 2, C# and VB, jQuery and JavaScript with NHibernate DB mapping to SQL Server 2008 Databases.  ? Sole developer of the company's new Safety First website; a website that is used by school districts to sign up for Aultman Hospitals annual Safety First program.  ? Assisted in the development of AultNet, the new company intranet/internet website.  ? Created and modified reports using SQL Server Reporting Services and managed the report server. SQL Developer 3E Company - Canton, OH May 2007 to August 2010 Developed MSDgen, a complex enterprise software solution used by large chemical and industrial companies  throughout the world to maintain their inventory and assist them in the creation of mixtures of raw materials. The  software also generated language and country specific MSDS sheets based on the materials and ingredients used in the document generation process.  ? Designed and developed user interfaces.  ? Used Oracle P/L SQL and MS Transact SQL to perform data integration and manipulation.  ? Assumed multiple roles in the software development cycle and managed 14 large clients.  ? In charge of applying client upgrades, customizations and support as well as development.  ? Maintained client web pages using .NET 4 Framework in C# and VB.NET    ? Redesigned database table structure for user interface and reporting used in calculating and displaying data for Physical & Chemical Properties. I designed and proposed the new structure and after approval from the design  team, I implemented the new table structure, rewrote all of the stored functions, procedures, triggers and views and created new reports for displaying the data on our documents. I wrote all of this in Oracle P/L SQL and then  converted all of the changes to Microsoft T-SQL so it would be compatible with our clients on SQL Server. Education Computer Science & Computer Engineering Kent State University 2010 to 2011 Associates of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Stark State College of Technology 2005 to 2009 Skills ASP.NET (10+ years), Javascript (9 years), .NET Core (2 years), ASP.NET MVC (9 years), Responsive Design (8 years), jQuery (8 years), Entity Framework (5 years) Links https://stackoverflow.com/users/story/1298907