Systems Software Engineer Systems <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Developer - Systems Software Perkasie, PA Work Experience Systems Software Engineer CardWorks Servicing - Horsham, PA June 2017 to Present • Develop and maintain a C# MVC web application servicing over 5 million accounts for 24 active financial services clients.   • Developed cross platform mobile applications with over 600 thousand downloads on the Play store.  • Transform client defined business requirements into software solutions, from UML diagrams to implementation and testing.  • Created single page application library for our agent portal reducing customer service account searches by 20%.  • Developing application layer security solution for protecting our services from malicious attacks with IP intelligence data.  • Work directly with our QA team to ensure features are fully tested.  Software Developer eMoney Advisor - Radnor, PA September 2015 to September 2016 • Collaborated with team members to expand and maintain a library of over 700 C# web parsers.  • Reduced our reliance on third party data aggregation providers, reducing operating costs before our acquisition by Fidelity.  • Participated in code reviews and voluntary initiative groups to promote maintainable code and clean software design.  • Proposed the internal development tools initiative group and redesigned our Reg Ex tester used by all parser team developers. Product Development Engineer Co-Op Comcast - Philadelphia, PA September 2014 to March 2015 • Automated my role by developing a user friendly web application for the advertisement team to design and compile set top box applications.  • Collaborated with a small team of Co-Ops to plan, design, and develop an X1 set top box application for ordering food from Delivery.com which we pitched to executive board members. Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA September 2012 to June 2017 Skills HTML, Jquery, SQL, XML, Javascript, Linux, Sql Server Links http://github.com/Jayx239