QA Lead QA Lead QA Lead/Sr QA Engineer Frisco, TX • Over 14 years of progressive experience in IT software Technology space  • 8 years in Testing / Quality assurance / Quality engineering  • Consistent demonstration of success throughout the career  • Breadth and depth of experience in Agile and waterfall methodology, including  working with cross functional team  • Strong in testing lifecycle activities including designing and developing Test  strategy, Test plans , Test execution and defect management and reporting  • Experience in coordinating and driving functional as well as non-functional  testing such as Performance testing and test automation  • Proficient in implementing and advancing core QA processes  • Strong Financial services and Mortgage industry experience  • Experience in driving Test automation through selenium and continues testing  practices  • Current with latest trends QA process, metrics, tools, technologies , Test data and  Test environment  • Proficiency in tools in QA / CI CD space such as ALM, Selenium, VSTS , Splunk,  Jira , QA Sprira , Octopus etc  • Several years of experience in Agile, CI CD , DevOps methodology Work Experience QA Lead Hobsons/Campus February 2012 to Present Campus Management's CONNECT and Retain CRMs provides colleges and universities  with a suite of cross-media communication tools to help them target a wide range of students who respond differently to various communication methods. Product is world's  leading product, deployed in over 500 Universities and colleges across the globe. Project  consists of enhancement and customization which is tracked in the form of user stories and sprints in Agile / Scrum methodology.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Test management in Spira and ALM / Quality Center.  • Led a global team including vendor team members from offshore  • Responsible for all types of testing including Test automation, manual  testing, Performance testing and end to end testing  • Successfully brought the best practices of Agile QA testing  • Automating test cases using Selenium(Java)  • Acted as QA point of contact for estimates , status , coordination etc  • Established appropriate metrics for quality and status measurement  • Closely coordinated with users to ensure user centric QA testing  • Lead the migration project which involved migration of scripts written in QTP Tool to Selenium.  • Co-ordinated with offshore team for developing the Automated/Manual  regression suite  • Acted as a Test Lead and provided leadership to testing team in daily  Scrum meeting.  • Allocated work to offshore team for Functional testing for a Sprint  • Co-ordinated with other teams for UAT testing, Front End User Testing, Performance Testing and Compliance Testing  • Created Test plan and Test metrices for the project.  • Executed automated test cases using test management tools.  • Used Jira and TFS as Defect tracking and PBI management tool.  • Webservices testing using SOAPUI  • Used deployment tools like Jenkins and Octopus Deploy  • Used Splunk for checking Error logs Datasphere Technologies March 2011 to December 2011 Microsoft - November 2010 - March 2011 Test Engineer (Agile methodology) Datasphere Technologies March 2011 to December 2011 Doppio is a Technology Upgrade project for adding new events , updating and displaying  events on the websites. This is implemented in several media houses including Mcgraw  Hills, Meredith etc using Cloud computing technology. The earlier existing technology which was primarily on Drupal was replaced by .Net framework. Doppio is a differentiated  version of LocalNet that allows DataSphere to expand market presence in areas where  LocalNet is already sold.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Created Test plan and Test metrices for the project.  • Created automation test tool using PHP for monitoring the websites  • Automated the defects and event update scenarios along with the smoke  tests thus providing value - adds to the client.  • Created and ran manual test cases.  • Performed functional testing on the websites.  • Defect tracking using Pivotal Tracker and Bugs database Software Developer/Tester Morgan Stanley / Headstrong Noida October 2008 to September 2010 PWM (Portfolio Management System) is a collection of various applications that Morgan  Stanley uses for Asset allocation, Risk assessment, Client management, Account  management etc. Project involved development and maintenance of these applications in technologies like C#, SQL Server 2000 ,VB 6, COM and socket programming using Agile  methodology. All the projects that were involved dealt with complex schema of data and millions of records.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Did requirement gathering and analysis, prepared Business Requirement, Functional and Technical Specification Documents, prepared time  estimates  • UI Coding and implementing Business Logic using VB6 and COM.  • Responsibility of developing/modifying stored procedures, complex sql  queries for database SQL Server 2005 using T-SQL.  • Created unit test cases and did unit testing, system testing and integration testing (frontend + backend), provided user acceptance  testing (UAT) support for business users using JIRA tool. In short was part of whole SDLC.  • Defect tracking using Jira tool Morgan Stanley / Headstrong Noida February 2008 to September 2010 Software Developer February 2008 to September 2008 This tool is a web application for an intranet, developed for taking the backup of important system files on a periodic basis using technologies like C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net,  SQL Server 2005. The time interval and the files for which backup had to be taken could  be specified through the frontend of the application. This tool was a combination of web  application and windows services. Once the user has created his account in the application and specified the required details, a windows services was installed on the  users machine which used to take the backup of files in the specified location and intervals. It was being used organization wide by number of teams in headstrong.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Designed the frontend application UI - Web pages, business layer and database  access layer of the application.  • Coding and Implementing Business Logic using C#  • Designed the SQL Server database - created tables using normalization, created  sql queries and stored procedures using T-SQL  • Prepared unit test cases and system test cases, did unit testing, system testing  and integration testing(frontend + backend)  • Was part of deployment of the application as well. Software Developer and Tester ANZ July 2006 to December 2007 OLA is customer facing web based online applications developed for applying for credit  card applications, personal Loans and opening accounts. OLA applications are developed  in ASP, COM, XML and Sql Server 2000. OLA communicates with the host system via the messaging service called CIM. The host system is the Decision making system (CDM or  CAP) developed using Mainframes. OLA converts the application data into XML which uses CIM services to pass the data to host system where the decision is taken based on  the application data provided. A response is given to the customer within 60 seconds and an email is sent giving the intermediate or final decision within few minutes of submitting the application.There is another application called Eadmin which is not customer facing  developed for Customer support purposes. It is used only by Customer Service Executives for Customer support.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Designed , developed and maintained web pages using ASP, JavaScript, VBScript, HTML for the bank website.  • Created/changed Stored Procedures, Sql Queries using T-SQL,DML and enhanced  DLLs(COM) for implementing new Business Logic  • Interaction with client/business for requirement analysis.  • Attending status calls with the client for giving regular project updates.  • Involved in end to end system testing and have done Whitebox Testing and Functional/Integration Testing using test scripts for few months for the same  project using Quality Center.  • Reviewed test plan    Project: Micro Site Migration & Fusion Deployment, General Motors ANZ February 2005 to December 2007 Software Developer, Tester February 2005 to June 2006 GM Fusion is a sophisticated web application developed using C#,ASP.Net ,XML which provides entire vehicle information including design, safety, technical specification,  overview, online test drive booking etc., from all over the world. Moreover this provides  online vehicle shopping and buying solution for the clients. The main objective of this  project is to get the vehicle Accessories data, convert in appropriate format and display  for various brands on GM Middle East websites. The Accessories information is stored in excel file. This excel file is used to generate XML using excel Macros. The generated  Accessories XMLs are used as data files for displaying accessories information in websites.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Made changes to the UI of the web application and also did content  management of the website.  • Involved in creating few Excel Macros for converting data from Excel to XML  format.  • Involved in unit testing, system testing and end to end testing of the web  application. Developer Metlife China / TCS Bangalore April 2004 to January 2006 The project entitled "ESEG" is a huge LAN based project developed to automate  insurance company activities throughout their branches developed using technologies  like ASP, VB6, COM, SQL Server 2000 and crystal reports, XML. E-SEg uses the combination of a policy-centric and customer-centric model, rather than exclusively on a  policy-centric model. This model relates all information about customers and policies to the customer who owns them and has the ability to enable customer-focused and  location-independent relationship management with access to complete customer  information including face amount ,policy term, claims payment history of existing  policies It involves premium calculation, generation of reports like reminder letters for premium payment with the help of schedulers, initiation of cancellation in case of policy  lapse, data transfer between different modules in XML format.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Coding and Implementing Business Logic using COM and UI changes in ASP,Visual Basic 6.0  • Prepared Stored Procedures, complex Sql queries and views  • Preparation of complex Crystal Reports using stored procedures and views.  • Documentation of technical details which involved writing psuedocode  based on business requirements.  • Testing of the peer code Metlife China / TCS Bangalore January 2004 to January 2005 Education Bachelor's Skills Quality Assurance, Quality Control, QA, Selenium, Jira (5 years), HP Quality Center (3 years), TFS (2 years), Regression Testing (7 years), Functional Testing (7 years), Offshore Onsite Co-ordination (4 years), Test Plan/Strategy (4 years), Time Estimation (5 years), Defect Logging/Tracking (6 years), CRM Testing (7 years)