Technical Architect/Application Manager Technical Architect/Application Manager Ashburn, VA • 18 years of experience in IT as an SDLC developer. Out of that, 10 years of experience as a Technical architect and manager.  • Well versed with DevOps and complete Life Cycle Development process, which includes Design, Estimation, Development, Testing and Implementation of Web-based and client-server applications. Performed various integrations.  • Expertise in developing/debugging Web applications using ASP.NET 4.5/4.0, Angular JS, JQuery, JavaScript  • Experienced in developing applications using C# and Visual Basic.NET  • Experienced in SQL Server, Sybase, and Oracle.  • Interacting with clients to gather information, doing the technical design/development and work with a team of developers following Agile-Scrum methodologies to meet end-user requirements.  • Industry experience in Ticketing systems, Member centric software development, Pyramid Marketing, Medical Practice and Warehouse management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Architect/Application Manager Credit Union National Association (CUNA) - Washington, DC February 2017 to Present The project is to work on CUNA’s various software applications and integrations, including web/e-business and back end systems. Recognize system deficiencies and recommend/effective solutions and assists with the implementation of those solutions.     Responsibilities  • Gather requirements and work/assist in Design, Develop, Test and Deploy solutions, based on CUNA defined guidelines.  • Understands complex database concepts and work with the CUNA DBA to recommend improved database design solutions  • Provide technical direction for the design, development and systems integration including with Sumtotal learning management and Single-Sign-On(SSO)  • Working with onsite and offshore technical resources  • Continuous integration using TeamCity.  • Upgrade of the old CMS system (Personify) to the latest version  Environment: ASP.NET, C# 4.5, VB.NET, WebAPI, WCF, SQL Server 2014, DotNetNuke (DNN), JQuery, JavaScript, TFS, CVS, IIS, Windows Server 2012, Windows 10, JIRA Software Engineer Ticketmaster, VA - Chantilly, VA October 2014 to February 2017 The Ticketmaster online and season tickets are different systems run on separate platforms. The Gateway web services is developed to integrate season tickets with other Ticketmaster applications. The web services help data exchange of customer information, events, seats, order information, barcode etc. between the systems. We have integrated with Salesforce for getting email marketing information. Apache ActiveMQ messaging services is developed for distributing accounts and seats information using Java applications.    Responsibilities  • Develop different web application and services using ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET.  • Continuous integration and DevOps using TeamCity and Jenkins.  • Develop and manage Apache ActiveMQ using Java, Maven on Linux environment.  • Modify/Create stored Procedures, Indexes.  Environment: ASP.NET, C# 4.5, VB.NET, WCF, SQL Server 2014, Sybase 16, GIT, Serena, TeamCity, IIS, Windows 2012, AcitveMQ, Java, Maven, Linux, JIRA. Managing Consultant Personify, VA - Herndon, VA May 2007 to September 2014 Customizing Personify base product Applications  The project is to develop/customize base e-commerce Personify (Member Centric Software) product. The product's built-in e-commerce capabilities provide customer demographics management, to order products, register for meetings, update records, order and renew subscriptions, apply for and renew memberships - all from a standard web browser.    Responsibilities  • Develop/Customize e-commerce application using ASP.NET, C# and VB.NET  • Provide technical guidance to developers, Manage and implement multiple projects.  • Integrate ebiz site with different vendor sites and write user layer code.  • Develop Web Services to be consumed from the web applications and mobile apps.  • Modify/Create Stored Procedures, tables, Indexes, Data conversion scripts.  Environment: ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, WCF, SQL Server 2012, DotNetNuke (DNN), JQuery, JavaScript, TFS, IIS, Windows XP. Software Developer TIMSSnet October 2003 to April 2007 product development  The project is to develop/customize base e-commerce TIMSSnet (Member Centric Software) product. The product's built-in e-commerce capabilities provide customer demographics management, to order products, register for meetings, update records, order and renew subscriptions, apply for and renew memberships - all from a standard web browser.    Responsibilities  • Develop/Customize e-commerce application using ASP.NET, VB.NET  • Modify/Create Stored Procedures, tables, Indexes, Data conversion scripts.  Environment: ASP.NET, VB.NET, Cold Fusion MX, Oracle 9i, SQL Server 2000, JavaScript, Visual Source Safe, TOAD, IIS, Windows XP/2000/MAC X. Software Consultant AITC, IL June 2002 to September 2003 The project was to develop an e-commerce pyramid marketing system with a shopping mall and convert over a million subscribers to the new system. Subscribers can opt to become a paid member by an online purchase of Upgrade, which will make them eligible to receive multi-level commissions. An End of Month (EOM) process is written to calculate commissions, recurring orders, dues and charge subscriber credit cards. A win32 application has been developed to send customized e-mails to over 1.4 million subscribers.  Responsibilities  • Develop/Implement e-commerce application using ASP.NET  • Convert data from the old system to the new Database.  • Write the EOM process in Visual Basic.NET to calculate commissions, shopping rebates, create recurring orders and charge subscriber credit cards.  • A win32 application in C# to send customized emails.  • Maintain database, write Stored Procedures, triggers and Indexes.  Environment: ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#, SQL Server 2000, JavaScript, Visual Studio.NET, Visual Source Safe, IIS, Erwin, UML, Windows XP/2000 Server. Software Engineer TMA Resources, VA July 2001 to June 2002 Customizing TIMSSnet & TIMSSnet base product development  The project was to develop a base e-commerce TIMSSnet (Member Centric Software) product, which can be customized according to the client's requirement. The product's built-in e-commerce capabilities provide customers to order products, register for meetings, update records, order and renew subscriptions, apply for and renew memberships - all from a standard web browser. The SQL scripts were written in both Oracle and SQL server, to support clients in Oracle as well as SQL Server.    Responsibilities  • Develop/Customize e-commerce application using Cold Fusion  • Modify/Create Stored Procedures, tables, Indexes, Data conversion scripts.  Environment: Cold Fusion 5.0, Oracle 8i, SQL Server 2000, JavaScript, Visual Source Safe, Crystal Reports, TOAD, IIS, Windows 2000/MAC X. Software Developer Geysers Intl., FL August 2000 to June 2001 by reducing the time required for record keeping, maintenance and billing purposes. Patients have the benefit of viewing their medical reports and request appointments online.    Responsibilities  • Designed the application following Unified Modeling Language methodology.  • Designed and created the database, wrote related stored procedures, triggers using SQL-Server as the backend.  • Develop web application using ASP 3.0, Visual Basic 6.0,  • Generate Reports using Crystal Reports, Docuright and in MS Excel using VBA.  Environment: UML, SQL Server 2000, ASP 3.0, Visual Basic 6.0, JavaScript, IIS, Windows 2000, Crystal Reports 7.0, Docuright. Software Consultant Selectica Inc December 1999 to July 2000 CA  Projects:  1. Valves Configurator (4 months)  2. Programmable Logic Controllers (4 months)  The task is to develop a rule-based system, which helps the user to buy products based on his/her input. The system also takes care of sales people logging into the system with special privileges. They can apply and create new discount schedules.  Responsibilities  • Collecting system information for creating knowledge base  • Involved in Design, flowchart and algorithm creation.  • Writing UDFs in Java  • Develop 3-tier applications using Visual Basic-6.0  • Develop web pages using ASP, Cold Fusion  Environment: Oracle 8i, SQL server, ASP 3.0, Cold Fusion 4.5, Visual Basic 6.0, Java, JavaScript, ACE tools, Visual Source Safe, Visio, IIS, Netscape Enterprise Server. Software Engineer Broadline Computer Systems August 1997 to November 1999 India  Projects:  1. Human Resource Management System (5 months).  2. Warehouse Information System (9 months)  3. Stock Monitoring System (14 months)  Responsibilities  • Create GUI using Visual Basic and integration with other modules.  • Develop web pages using ASP  • Creating stored procedures, triggers and Indexes.  • Generate reports using Crystal Reports and MS-Excel for Management Information System (MIS)  Environment: SQL Server 7, Visual Basic 6/5, ASP 3.0/2, VBA, Crystal Reports, VSS, Visio. Education Bachelor's in Electronics and Communication College of Engineering - Trivandrum, Kerala September 1993 to September 1997 Skills MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL SERVER (10+ years), ASP (10+ years), IIS (10+ years), NET, Solution Architect, Azure (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SOFTWARE SKILLS:  Operating System: Windows Server 2012/2008/7/XP, OS X, Linux  Languages: C#, VB.NET 4.5/4/3.5, C, C++, Java  RDBMS: SQL Server 2014/2012, Sybase 16, Oracle 9i/8i, MySQL, MS-Access  Internet Programming: ASP.NET 4.5/4/3, WCF, MVC, WebAPI, Angular JS/5, Cold Fusion MX/5, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS  Web Server: IIS 8.x/7.x  Source control mgmt.: Team Foundation Server, Visual Source Safe, GIT, Serena  Content Management System: DotNetNuke 7.x, 6.x  Tools: Visual Studio.NET, Visual UML, Erwin, Visio, MS-Office, TOAD, Parature, ClearQuest, JIRA, Splunk, SourceTree, TeamCity, Microsoft Azure