Web Application Developer Web Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Application Developer - ConnectiveRx Clifton, NJ ? More than 9 years of experience in development and support of enterprise applications using technologies such as PHP, LINUX, Apache and MYSQL.  ? Hands on experience on Drupal 8 framework. Hands on experience on MVC model.  ? Hands on experience on databases like Mongo DB, Oracle 11g, MYSQL, MS SQL Server and MS Access. Hands on experience on Visual Studio, Dream Viewer.  ? Hands on experience in development using technologies such as AJAX, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, CSS, HTML 5, XML, SOAP, SVN, JIRA, GITHub, Azure DevOps, Bootstrap, Ember JS, SCSS, JSON, VB, Vb.Net, Angular Js, Node Js, OOJS, REST API calls, React Js.  ? Hands on experience on framework like Joomla, Zend, Code Igniter, and CakePHP, symphony. Hands on experience on servers like Apache, Tomcat, Ubuntu and IIS.  ? Hands on experience on AWS Platform.  ? A self-motivated team player with good communication, relationship management and problem-solving skills. Hands on experience on Crystal Report.  ? Strong collaboration, team building, interpersonal, communication skills with proficiency at grasping new technical concepts quickly & utilizing the same in a productive manner. Work Experience Web Application Developer ConnectiveRx - Fairfield, NJ July 2018 to Present ConnectiveRx is a pharmaceutical company which helps patients to afford their medications using their copay program. As a Web Application Developer, I was involved in developing different modules for multiple drugs using CodeIgniter, AWS, PHP.    Responsibilities:  ? Actively involved in brainstorming sessions and meetings with UX team to enhance the user experience.  ? Created reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture.  ? Experience in backup/restore of PostgreSQL databases.  ? Configured scheduling AWS cloud automated watch event process.  ? Managed security groups on AWS, focusing on high-availability, fault-tolerance, and auto scaling using Terraform templates. Along with Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment with AWS Lambda and AWS code pipeline.  ? Used Azure Devops for Version Control System and JIRA for Project Management.  ? Involved in discussions along Project Managers and Architects to enhance functionality and related User Stories using Version One.  ? Performed unit tests using Jest and cross browser testing on applitools.  ? Followed AGILE development techniques in all the development process by using tool like Scrum.    Helpdesk and public portal for Patients and Providers:  Developed different components which can be reused among multiple products to maintain data for patients and providers. Implemented functionality to create and generate PDF and Faxes. Created transaction module based on available copay. Also Developed public portals for different drugs which will include required information related to drugs and will have facility for patients and providers to enroll themselves. It will also allow providers to look for their patients and process required procedure for them.  ? Designed and developed components in CodeIgniter by using Bootstrap 4.0 and SASS.  ? Created Provider login portal which will provide facility to enroll/update patient info, look for the claims/treatments for particular patient and also can submit EOBs from the front end which will help the patients to pay for their claims.  ? Integrated Weather APIs with Geolocation API.  ? Integrated internal server with external insurance companies and providers to verify patient eligibility.  ? Worked on postgres to group different providers and related patients by creating store procedure for the same.    Environment: PHP, MySQL, Linux, AJAX, JavaScript, CodeIgniter, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML 5, jQuery, SCSS, Git Hub, OOPS, JIRA, Agile methodology, MVC, JSON, REST API calls, Azure DevOps. Developer GlobalSign.In Pte Ltd - Singapore November 2014 to August 2016 System: It is an easy and powerful online event registration and online ticketing system that allows you to publish, manage and sell tickets to your events, meetings, seminars, conferences, classes, fairs, etc.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked as a Team Member in development team.  ? Business Development People communication for requirements and their analysis.  ? Involved in creating requirement specification document & design document.  ? Migrate existing projects in Symphony and Drupal Framework using Angular Js.  ? Bug fixing. Followed agile life cycle for all development and enhancement.    Environment: PHP, MySQL, Linux, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, HTML 5, jQuery, mobile application like android and iOS, SCSS, Ember JS, Cake PHP, GitHub, Drupal, symphony, Angular Js, React Js, OOJS. Associate Programmer Just Dial Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2011 to September 2013 System: Just Dial is India's no.1 local search destination. It provides search services and is made available on Website and Mobile. The customers are required to call a hotline number and ask the operator what service they are looking for (e.g. restaurants, hospitals, banks etc.) and in which area. In turn the operator will send them an email and an SMS with the information. Apart from this, customers can search for the information of any specific business on the Website and Mobile Application. Just Dial was in the news on November 10, 2017 for expected acquisition by Google and based on this news the share prices at NSE rose about 20%.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked as a core developer and owning the module. Migrate existing projects in Zend and Drupal Framework using Node Js. Involved in US based projects and website.  ? Worked on mobile application like android and iOS and Facebook API.  ? Worked on data integration process. Worked on MYSQL Queries.  ? Involved in creating requirement specification document & design document.  ? Bug fixing. Followed SDLC life cycle for all development and enhancement.  ? Build Creation and Source control through SVN.    Environment: PHP, MySQL, Linux, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, jQuery, Drupal, Zend Framework, mobile application, facebook API, Node Js, OOJS. Associate Programmer Geodesic Limited - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2010 to April 2011 System: Chandamama is the brain-child of visionaries and magazine was to entertain and educate young minds about the rich traditions of India. Chandamama has been delighting readers since then with engrossing stories, amazing facts, and thought-provoking features. The magazine started the unique trend of telling a story, almost always bound by a common thread of moral values. This online shopping site is basically for the person who wants to buy the magazine and books online. Chandamama was published in 13 languages.    Responsibilities:  ? Working as module owner in development team. Developed project in Drupal Framework.  ? Worked on backed MYSQL Queries. Worked on Design part of website. Bug fixing.  ? Involved in High level functional speciation.    Environment: PHP, MySQL, Linux, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, OOJS, Drupal. Software Programmer Xennon InfoTech Private Limited - Surat, Gujarat December 2007 to June 2010 System: The Company is a software Development company that focuses on highly qualitative, timely delivered and cost-effective software development. With a rich and varied experience in providing software development and project management capabilities and stringent quality standards ensure us to develop solutions that give your business an edge over your competitors. Company philosophy is to create the kind of website that most businesses want: easy to find, stylish and appealing, quick loading, mobile responsive and easy to buy from.    Responsibilities:  ? Working as Lead developer.  ? Developed Xenon InfoTech Company's site, it gives all the information of company's products. Followed SDLC life cycle for all development and enhancement. Bug fixing  ? Worked on online shopping card site is basically for the person who wants to buy the product online through paypal system.  ? Worked on Numerology site gives the future of person with the help of a person's birth date number calculation. Deployment and configuration of project.    Environment: PHP, MySQL, SQL Server 2005, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS Software Programmer ProdesignZ.net Private Limited - Surat, Gujarat June 2007 to December 2007 System: The Company offer a wide range of IT services ranging from Software development, Website designing, e-commerce solutions, IT resourcing to ERP solutions and any kind of custom software development. Combining our solid business experience, technical expertise, profound knowledge of latest industry trends and quality-driven delivery model we offer progressive end-to-end web solutions. Company is offering Web Hosting (Linux web hosting and windows web hosting) and Domain Name Registration for our valuable customers to ensure them that their website is hosted with a reliable company. Company has a good list of clients like South Gujarat Chamber of Commerce, R. Wadiwala Securities Pvt. Ltd., Varachha co-operative Bank Ltd., Surat People's Bank Ltd., Surat National co-operative Bank Ltd., Taru the leading-edge Pvt. Ltd. and many more.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed Online Book Store System, in this site user can purchase the book online with PayPal system. It also maintains the track of books. CMS, it is a content management system which is a core part of the product. In this site user can enter their Product and basic Information which is necessary for the site. Worked in Custom Web Development projects.  ? Worked in Chevali Architect website is basically Image Gallery, this site is used for Architect Purpose. With the Images users can see exact view of their Products. E-commerce Site.  ? Developed Procommerce is product of Prodesignz. It maintains all the details of Item. Online shopping of Item can be done with this product. Bug fixing.  ? Back end support in development and maintenance. Followed SDLC life cycle for all development and enhancement.    Environment: PHP, MySQL, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS. Software Programmer New Tech Info Sol Private Limited - Surat, Gujarat July 2006 to May 2007 System: New Tech Info sol, a leader behind the automation efforts of the Yarn and textile industry. New Tech Infosol aims to harness the power of Information Technology to provide comprehensive solutions to all its customers. New Tech Infosol offers a broad spectrum of highly innovative software solutions and services across various segments of IT, which include Enterprise Solutions for Apparels & Textiles (ERP, CRM and SCM Solutions), E Commerce Solutions (B2B & B2C Portals), Developmental Services, GPS & GIS Solutions, IT Enabled Services, Off-Shore Services, Business Process Outsourcing Solutions and HR Consultancy. New Tech Infosol having its clients across various cities in Gujarat and has learned the process of effective project management and its life cycle includes Case Study, Documentation, Quality control, Time Management and Customer Support.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked as a developer.  ? Working as core in SMS Sending Module for Textiles Clients, sent messages to multiple clients. Developed Hospital Project is for Ketaki Care Hospital. It is about Test Tube Baby.  ? Worked in Government Project is for RTO from Surat. It includes the all vehicles detail.  ? Worked in Online Air booking System include ticket booking, all flight information.  ? Client communication for issues and their analysis. Followed SDLC life cycle for all development and enhancement. Bug fixing    Environment: VB, VB.NET, ASP.NET, SQL Server 2005, MS-Access Education M.C.A Veer Narmad South Gujarat University - Gujarat, IN 2006 B.B.A Veer Narmad South Gujarat University - Gujarat, IN 2003 Skills AJAX, CSS, DREAMWEAVER, IIS, TOMCAT