Watson Cloud Engineer Watson Cloud Engineer Watson Cloud Engineer - IBM Remote Extensive Enterprise Platform Development experience at IBM, Oracle Corporation, Violin Memory Systems,  Servergy Systems (Linux PowerPC), Eucalyptus System Inc.(OpenStack compatible Cloud IaaS provider), Idera  Corporation (Linux Storage Backups), 25 years at Tandem/Compaq/Hewlett Packard Computers (fault  tolerant UNIX), along with experience at IBM Corporation in the AIX kernel development group.    Outstanding problem solving techniques with experience on a variety of system architectures and administrator  duties with regards to UNIX, Linux+Windows with Storage, SAN, networking, Cluster/High Availability  Computing/Cloud infrastructures.    Experienced in SDLC software Storage device drivers for OS platform enablement in Windows, Linux, UNIX.  Extensive experience as an Enterprise Software Developer and Platform Engineer supporting mission critical  businesses.    Frequently active in direct customer facing roles for product bring-up, issue resolution, and technical consultation  for large Fortune 500 companies.    SDLC Experience in software development creating/maintaining deployment tools for Intel/AMD servers at  Compaq/HP Server Division.    SDLC Experience writing C, C++, device drivers, utilities, and bash scripts in development roles creating  Enterprise Software Product releases.    SDLC experience in UNIX, AIX, Red Hat/SuSE Enterprise Linux versions incorporating vendor branded  software components and value added solutions:    Linux Cloud platform developer on Eucalyptus cloud product  OS (Kernel) Platform Developer: Fault Tolerant, High Availability, UNIX/Linux systems  OS (Kernel) Platform Development for IBM (AIX/Unix) Deep Blue Cluster expansion.  OS (Kernel) Software Developer on UNIX Clustering UnixWare 7.x (Compaq Nonstop Cluster)  Software Product Developer: Linux IP Failover product in a Cluster environment (Apache/NFS).  Proficient in driver development of multi-threaded software on Linux/Unix  Experience in debugging system level software and hardware issues.  Ability to analyze performance issues at a system-level and component-level focus.  Proficient in IEEE 802. X protocol and analysis using network trace tools  Primary software developer for HP Blade iSCSI SAN (Windows and Linux) deployment and System  Imaging based on Altiris using Kickstart. Vendor/OEM Network Software technologist for VMWare/Linux  KVM features. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Watson Cloud Engineer IBM February 2018 to Present Site Reliability / Cloud engineer supporting IBM's Life Science Cloud healthcare cloud platform. LSC is a HIPAA  registered product offered by IBM hosted on Softlayer. Primary responsibilities where configuring Openstack  platforms , VM instances, system maintaintence and updates. Sr Software Engineer/DevOps Oracle Systems 2017 to 2017 Oracle Cloud Cancer Research (OCRC) Team. Responsible for ETL ingress loading of public cancer data bases to Oracle Exadata database utilizing Oracle Public Cloud resources in Oracle's Ashburn and Phoenix Data  Center. Tools: Oracle Cloud, Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, SQLDeveloper GUI, ODI, sqlplus tools, git/Jenkins scripting.  MESA DC/OS and OpenStack bare metal deployments. OCRC project was cancelled by Oracle after 1 year of development. Sr. System Software Developer Violin Memory Storage Systems 2015 to 2017 Responsible for software sustaining of Violin's embedded x86 and PowerPC Linux based Flash Storage Arrays  based on Redhat 5 and Redhat 6 distributions. Triage customer issues and provide software modifications to resolve them; Developed improved system health reporting tools (c, perl Python) ; Created a ESX, OpenStack and KVM reference platforms for Field System Engineers to become familiar with Violin ESX and OpenStack  implementations; Worked with customers to identify client (Linux/ESX) configuration issues. Created RPM and  Ubuntu install components for Linux clients that included Violin udev/MPIO support.. Improve Violin Software  install tools. Resolved software defects found in QA release cycles; Implemented AIX MPIO driver fixes;  Bugzilla; git tool base environment. Violin declared bankruptcy 12/2016. Software Engineer Dyn Corporation 2014 to 2015 Implemented new software modules with corresponding Linux style service to provide DNS telemetry statistics for DYN's high performance DNS as a Service product (C, C++) Linux Kernel/Embedded Software Developer Servergy Systems Inc - Dallas, TX 2013 to 2014 Linux Platform Developer on Servergy's PowerPC Open Compute Server; Created new U-Boot features for menu driven disk boot setup, USB keyboard support, BCM 5718 + IPMI , bug fixing, and iSCSI boot from  SAN. Provided Ubuntu product and Kernel defect and fixes analysis for Free Scale  P4080-e500mc limited Big Endian distribution. SoC (Primary C, bash );    Servergy Systems closed due to SEC Stock fraud investigations involving Texas Attorney General Ken  Paxton who was indicted. Software Engineer (consultant) Servergy Systems Inc March 2013 to November 2013 Linux+Windows Developer: Primary responsibilities were software sustaining and new feature development for  IBM's ISS Proventia Intrusion Security Product (X-Force security/IBM BigFix) for Red Hat (CentOS), SuSE, and  Windows. Back ported Linux Netfilter 3.10 performance driver fixes to 2.6.32 kernels (Primary C), Unit tested  Proventia support for CentOS 6.4. Linux Software Engineer Eucalyptus Systems Inc - Santa Barbara, CA June 2012 to March 2013 Primary responsibilities were software sustaining (Primary C, C# Windows Studio, and Java) in Customer Product Engineering. Triaged customer issues and provided source code point fixes.  Participated in QA and release cycles. Eucalyptus product is an AWS-compatible Cloud product similar to  Openstack and utilizes KVM/libvirt functionality for VM management. Linux Software Developer Idera Corporation - Houston, TX October 2011 to June 2012 Responsible for CDP (R1 Soft Continuous Data Protection Backups) Linux block  storage driver (primary C) and related software modules (C , C++ , Java) . Added per-user directory restore  feature based on LXC, Windows 2010 OutLook SQL snapshot. Sr Software Engineer Compaq 1984 to 2011 Network and Storage Infrastructure (SNI) Development team. 1984 to 2011 ( 25 years)    • Vendor/OEM Software Product Engineer - Defined software specifications and requirements for network  components used in HP Blades including definitions of SMBUS, CLP, SMASH, SR-IOV (VMWare/KVM),  CNA storage interfaces (10GbE, and 40GbE IEEE 802.x).    • Technical (HW & SW) Project lead for OEM vendors for new form factor PCI-E network adapters for the next generation of HP Servers.    • Conduct and report on new trends in TCP/IP network adapter technology to be included in future  programs such as FCoE and CNA (Converged Network Adapters) and SR-IOV virtualization.    • Joined the SNI (Storage, Networking and Infrastructure) Network Performance Team researching High  Performance Network adapters that feature SR-IOV, 10GbE, and 40GbE solutions, and forward looking  multifunction network and interconnect technologies such as FCoE.    • (Senior Software Developer) Designed a proprietary API that enables PCI-e I/O adapters to gather and report environment health and statistics via a side band communication IPMI+I2C paths. The telemetry  data is collected by off board service processors BMC for system analysis.    • Created several automated network IEEE 802.x performance suite that maintain accurate vendor  summaries for VMWare ESX 4.0, Linux RH KVM, and Linux. Suite were provided to vendors for qualification of software deliverables    • Developed a Linux performance tool "netsar" (C) that monitors TCP/IP IEEE 802.x network activity at a  per-process level for system and support analysts.    • Contributed to Linux TCP/IP IEEE 802.x network and kernel debugging expertise to a HP Blade/switch  project based upon a Neterion SR-IOV embedded architecture.    • Program Project/Engineering contact for all Windows Servers software issues w/ Broadcom series of 1GbE and 10GbE Multifunction adapter(s)/LOM(s) between HP and Broadcom Corp.    • Created Windows/Linux software install tool entities that include newest drivers, and worked product  issues between various server teams and network OEM vendors.  Authored an Network Vendor Requirements Document for 1GbE, 10GbE, and 40GbE components that  defined preferred network proprieties for HP Servers to ensure commonalty was achieved.    • Created the HP iSCSI iBoot Product for the Broadcom series of Multifunction adapter(s) / LOM(s (2008)  that provides a means to install and boot Windows 2003 and 2008 on the HP family of Blade servers.    • Contributed to an HP iSCSI Boot project with Microsoft Corporation that resulted in a MS iSCSI 2.05 MSI  releases that incorporates support for iSCSI Boot and Crash dump to iSCSI RAID targets for Windows  2003/SP2( C and C++).  • Created an RDP (Remote Deployment Program, Altiris) adaptation that incorporates an iSCSI boot from  SAN RAID for diskless Blade Servers(C, bash).    • Windows 2003 HP-iSCSI developer responsible for creating an iSCSI product based on Broadcom  Netflex-II ASIC. This was an intermediate MiniPort driver that encapsulated SCSI requests to iSCSI  messages that were offloaded to the adapter.  • Created an Open Source Linux iSCSI driver and added additional software features for HP's Industry  Standard Intel server's iSCSI project. The HP/UNH iSCSI project is hosted at HYPERLINK  "http://www.Sourceforce.net/"www.sourceforce.net to support the first HP iSCSI array product.  • Created an automated software install tool kit for SuSE Linux that permitted newly deployed servers to be quickly configured and installed with SuSE Linux from HP's RDP (Altiris) workstation.  • Created a Linux Cluster Failover offerings based on Steel Eye Computer Corporation product for a  failover solution on HP BL200 and ML300 series servers.  • Ported SCO's LPK (Linux Personality module) to incorporate those functionality into Compaq's  Non-Stop Cluster OS release permits Linux executables to run on SCO UNIX.  • Maintained Veritas VxFS file system and Veritas volume manager subsystem (device drivers and utilities) for Compaq NonStop Clustering Project.  • Technical lead on Compaq NonStop Clustering Project that incorporated SCO UNIX 7.x releases and  Servernet High Speed inter- connects that provided single name space operating system running over multiple Compaq servers. A unique feature incorporated a custom implementation of Veritas VxFS file  system and Veritas volume manager within a Cluster, multi-node implementation. Sr. Software Engineer Compaq 2001 to 2002 that  provided single name space operating system running over multiple Compaq servers.  • Responsible for designing, implementing, and leading variety of UNIX software projects for new features such as new platform changes, environmental/cabinet system (firmware) improvements, debugging  tools, resolving technical issues, and customer requested enhancements.  • Frequency traveled to Telco customer sites of AT&T (IL), Bell Labs (NJ, IL), Ericson (Sweden), Nixdorf  (Germany), and Motorola (IL), to be a on site engineering support for products issues (debug)  resolutions.  • UNIX generalist in many parts of the kernel (platform specific subsystems, TCP/IP, IEEE 802.x, UDP,  DNS, DHCP, VM, streams, IPC, process management, device driver changes for SCSI-2, dual SCSI,  tape and disk devices, and asynchronous controllers), commands, scripts, Veritas VxFS, Veritas volume  manager, libraries, porting activities, product builds and packaging. Gcc, compiler, assembler skills.  • Analyst in Tandem's System Support Group, a second level support organization handling customer  reported product issues Tandem terminals, PCs, and a variety of UNIX systems. Provided fly and fix  support when needed. AIX Kernel Developer Compaq - Austin, TX 1999 to 2001 Member of the AIX Development Group responsible for AIX bring up on new hardware.  • Implemented AIX OS platform changes to support the new M80 series of servers that enabled 64bit I/O  addressing for all internal PCI configuration and adapters freeing up enormous memory space below 4Gb. These were the first Power PC 6000 platform running at 1 GHz.  • Provided AIX point fixes via IBM BigFix.  • Extended AIX platform device support in the PCI-X space enabling the number of adapters in large  enterprise servers to support 65,000 devices in 1024 I/O cabinets ( i.e.: Deep Blue Cluster support). Software Developer Compaq - Austin, TX 1984 to 1999 As a Staff Member of Tandem's UNIX OS group, participated in a variety of software development projects on Kernel technical lead responsible for productizing Compaq 1989 to 1998 SVR3, SVR4.0, SVR4.SMP and SCO UNIXWARE releases on Tandem's Integrity Servers from 1989 to 1998:  • Kernel technical lead responsible for productizing Locus Computing TNC product (Transparent Network  Computing) Cluster Technologies to Tandem's a MIP's based Integrity SVR4.2 Servernet High Speed  interconnect servers. This work was used as the basis for the Compaq Clustering Project that Software Developer Texas Instruments - Austin, TX 1979 to 1984 Number of projects included power-on diagnostics for a Z80 based embedded VME I/O disk subsystem,  standalone diagnostics for TI's 990 mini-computers. Education AS in Computer Technology Electronics Institute General studies Austin Community College Skills LINUX (10+ years), C++ (10+ years), IEEE (10+ years), Drivers (10+ years), AIX (4 years), Python, AWS, Devops, amazon elastic compute cloud, scripting, vmware, nagios, integration, Puppet, Java, Docker, Ansible, Azure, Golang Links http://linkedin.com/pub/john-donnelly/0/4a9/318 Additional Information SKILLS: C, C++,Perl, bash shell scripting, J Tag debugger, Barebones install, kickstart, system  profiling,x86/RISC/Power PC Assembly languages, data scopes, embedded firmware, BIOS, logic analyzers,  IEEE 802 protocol analysis, 1 st Class FCC Radio Communication License, Radar Endorsement, experienced  hardware engineering technician. AIX and Linux drivers; KVM / ESX deployments.