DBA DBA DBA - Behavioral Health Colorado Springs, CO Work Experience DBA Behavioral Health - Colorado Springs, CO February 2015 to Present • Managed Hospital's Electronic Medical Record Systems.  • Created Disaster recovery plan for Sql Server Database.  • Wrote C# programs to augment Tier. Software Engineer Skyline Products - Colorado Springs, CO August 2012 to February 2015 • Embedded systems programming using STM32 processors. Communications with serial rs-485, SPI, I2C  • Embedded systems programming using Pic 24 processors. Communications with serial rs-485, SPI, I2C, and motor control  • Created an USB - QSPI Bridge using a Microchip pic 24 and Microchip USB CDC stack. Software Engineer Firing Circuits - Shelton, CT April 2011 to June 2012 • Commissioned Battery Formation and Test equipment, involving international travel to customer's sites.  • Developed custom scripts at customer's site to configure software for their needs.  • Provided technical support on phone, Skype, and remote desktop. Electrical Manufacturing Support Engineer EBMPAPST - Farmington, CT August 2004 to April 2011 • Developed new embedded products used to test our fans and program eeproms in our fans. Developed software and worked on pcb creation.  • Created automated test fixtures involving custom hardware and software which simulated the customers equipment.  • Using Microchip pic 18f parts developed embedded systems for use in testing out products.  • Using Visual Studio and C# wrote programs for data acquisition.  • Provided support to the manufacturing floor in areas of Electrical Engineering.  • Acted as a liaison between Electrical Engineering and Manufacturing Departments. MCI December 2002 to August 2004 Did whatever it took to survive the great MCI layoff. Software Developer MCI - Colorado Springs, CO September 1996 to December 2002 • Maintained and enhanced functionality of the DXC Access Server (DAS), an in-house MCI/WorldCom application written in C++ and run on Solaris. DAS translates generic device independent commands into device specific commands to cross connect telephone circuits. DAS uses the University of Washington's ACE Framework for network programming.  • Designed and implemented new features for the (RTR) Real Time Restoration system. RTR is a system written in C/C++ and running on VMS, which monitors the MCI network and reroutes traffic if a break is detected. By adding a TCP/IP server (written using sockets and a Java client) users were able to bypass the existing Motif GUI and access remotely. Wrote the Oracle database queries, the server, and consulted on the client.  • Wrote an automated testing tool in Visual Basic. The tool instantiated a web browser and navigated to the test web site to automatically test all functions of the program. Using ADO and a MS-SQL database stored scripts to provide flexibility for this test tool.  • Enhanced a help desk web application written in HTML, JavaScript, and DHTML. Wrote reports by querying an MS-SQL database using ADO.  • Ported Ellapi servers from OS/2 to Windows NT. The server is multithreaded, written in C++ and communicates through sockets using Roquewave C++ libraries. Traveled to MCI call centers to install Windows NT, configure in a networked environment, and install all third party software. Installed memory to bring machines up to minimum standards.  • Maintained System One software, which is the MCI call center application to service customer accounts. System One is written in C++ on an OS/2 platform networking with backend servers through sockets and middleware. Software Developer CONTACT SYSTEMS - Danbury, CT May 1993 to June 1996 • Designed new software for the CS3 Surface Mount robotic pick and place machine. The software is written in the C language running on Dos and compiles the vender libraries to control motors and frame grabbers.  • Worked on a team of developers to write custom software for customers' circuit board needs. Traveled off-site to install software and help clients' program circuit boards on the CS3.  • Maintained and serviced customer software requests on older machines in 8085 Assembly. Modified assembly code, burned EPROM's and tested on machines.    Field Service Technician  • Provided technical support for Contact System machines. Phone and travel contact to customer sites. Installed software, calibrated cameras, and helped them set up their run of circuit boards.  • Designed curriculum and held in-house training seminars. Trained customers from various countries including Italy, France, and Japan. Computer Systems Operator CELTIC LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY - Bloomfield, CT May 1991 to November 1991 • Ran jobs, printed checks on an IBM S/38.  • Organized the documentation of end user on line help for pay guard product.  • Provided technical support for a Dos based product using the Clarion database. Automated data entry and wrote queries to the database. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Technology Computer Science Charter Oak State College - Newington, CT December 1997 Associate Degree in Applied Science in Electronic Engineering Technology University of Hartford - West Hartford, CT May 1991 Skills Sql, C#, C/c++, C++, Javascript