Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - M&T Bank Buffalo, NY ? Seasoned Full Stack developer with 5 years of hands on experience.  ? Experience in Banking, Retail and Networking domains.  ? Experience working on-site and handling clients and have ability to adapt new technologies and trends  ? Extensive experience in utilizing Agile/Scrum methodologies for software development.  ? Good track record of delivering software on time even during tight deadlines.  ? Proficient in use of ASP.NET, JavaScript, Angular7 , Typescript, HTML, CSS and SQL Server.  ? Experienced with all phases of designing, coding and testing applications.  ? Adept at using creativity and strong knowledge base to come up with innovative solutions that work  optimally.  ? Committed to continuously acquiring new skills and knowledge, as well as staying current with new  technological developments.  ? Possess in-depth understanding of application needs for business clients.  ? Excellent written and oral communication skills.  ? Experience in quickly troubleshooting issues  ? Excellent team player with excellent communication and written skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Full Stack Developer M&T Bank - Buffalo, NY March 2018 to Present ? Developed new features using React/Redux. ? Developed the login page, account summary page, OTP Page using React/Redux, HTML, SASS, CSS.  ? Implemented TDD to have complete code coverage. ( Functions & Statements with 90% threshold)  ? Streamlined the retrieval, processing and updating of time-series survey data after successfully  developing and implementing automated research database management system using C# and MS SQL Server.  ? Performed unit and systems integration tests, using the Visual Studio Test Suite  ? Built interactive website - using ASP.Net - that permitted users to enter a specific set of criteria  for retrieving data and send their queries to the underlying database on the web server.  ? Maintained and Developed Stored Procedures used for generating different reports  ? Designed web pages using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, DHTML, XML and page design and layout and graphics  Tools & Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, NodeJS/ExpressJS, GoLang,Angular7, Typescript ,Web pack,  Babel/ES6, ESLint, CSS/LESS, Restful, MySQL, IntelliJ, Webstorm, GIT, Gitlab. C#, ASP.NET Full Stack Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA February 2017 to February 2018 Used React JS, Redux and Redux-Saga to develop production level web portal.  ? Worked closely with Architect to develop production quality code  ? Extensively used Continuous Integration (CI) tools like Jenkins,  ? Validated web application across all devices and also checked for cross-browser compatibility  ? Worked on unit testing of React components and others using Jest  ? Used tools like Git-hub, Jira and Application Lifecycle Management  ? Involved in all phases of application dev cycle such as analysis, design, development and testing.  ? Managed teams at offshore to handle different aspects of development of the page.  ? Implemented TDD to have complete code coverage ( branches & functions with 85% threshold).  ? Developed new services using ASP.NET.  ? Integration with existing Microservice xAPI ( Experience API) with NodeJS to populate data.  ? Offshore team management to allocate different tasks.  ? Developed and maintained online banking web application using, React JS, Redux    Tools & Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, NodeJS/ExpressJS, Golang, React/Redux/Redux-Thunk, Web pack,  Babel/ES6, ESLint, CSS/LESS, Restful, MySQL, IntelliJ, Webstorm, GIT, Gitlab, C#, ASP.NET Full Stack Developer JCPenney - Dallas, TX September 2016 to January 2017 Product Display Page ( Single Page App )  ? Converted existing MX Platform into NPM modules for modularity purpose.  ? Developed and tested Microservices to get product data from multiple services.  ? Followed TDD and pair programming methodologies to have complete code coverage.  ? Meeting with different stakeholders to implement new requirements.    Product Discovery Platform ( Single Page App )  ? Developed Product and Search Modules becoming as a part of the reusable platform.  ? Developed one special feature in React/Redux and integrated in backbone application.  ? Followed TDD and pair programming methodologies to have complete code coverage.  ? Meeting with different stakeholder to implement new requirements.    Product Review and Confirmation Page  ? Designed and developed an application for Product Review and Confirmation from scratch having  complete ownership.  ? Used React JS on frontend and Java/Spring on backend for REST APIs.  ? Created role based features.  ? Meeting with different stakeholders to implement new requirements.    Tools & Technologies: .NET(Core), Microservices, C#, ASP.NET, Restful, HTML, JavaScript, NodeJS/ExpressJS,  Polaris, React/Redux/Redux-Thunk, Web pack, Babel/ES6, ESLint, CSS/LESS, Elastic Search, IntelliJ, Webstorm, GIT Full Stack Developer Aerohive Networks May 2015 to August 2015 Developed and maintained entire web application using Node JS, React JS, C# and ASP.NET  ? Design system architecture for migration project, and supervise team of developers throughout the migration  project.  ? Manage project to create custom application for pricing, trade processing, risk management and exposure  reporting.  ? Design ASP.NET application for linkage to SQL databases.  ? Develop applications as part of creating an automated customer inquiry response system.    Tools & Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, NodeJS/ExpressJS, ASP.NET, C#, React/Redux/Redux-Thunk, Web pack,  Babel/ES6, ESLint, CSS/LESS, Restful, MySQL, IntelliJ, Webstorm, GIT, Gitlab. Software Engineer Rooprah Computers June 2013 to May 2014 Carbonated.tv - Controlled Video/Blog/Stories Sharing Product  ? Migrated database from Oracle to MySQL.  ? Improved and enhanced .NET applications for financial planners.  ? Analyzed development process and made recommendations for streamlining and alternative approaches.  ? Worked on bug analysis and elimination.  ? Created Struts Actions and JSPs for integrating new features.  ? Performance optimization of multiple areas including changes to Java code as well as HQL and SQL  queries.  ? Worked on image transformations using Image Magic.    Tools & Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, NodeJS/ExpressJS, c#, Aso.net , Angular JS, Webpack,  Babel/ES6, ESLint, CSS/LESS, RESTFul, MySQL, C#, ASP.NET Education MS in Computer Engineering San Francisco State University 2014 to 2016 BE in Electronic Engineering RGPV University 2010 to 2014 Skills Asp (4 years), Asp.net (4 years), C# (4 years), Css. (4 years), Html (4 years), React JS (3 years), Angular JS (3 years), Vue JS (1 year), Azure (2 years), Angular, Java, Javascript, Node, React, Angularjs, AWS, NET, React Native (2 years), .NET (4 years), Nodejs, PHP, Jquery, Python Links https://github.com/prashish14 Awards Amazon Hackathon Winner 2018-06 Won the second award for building Web App with Node JS and React JS in Amazon Hackathon Additional Information Certified AWS Associate , Experience with deploying Applications in Cloud