Contractor Contractor Contractor - Navient Fishers, IN Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Contractor Navient - Fishers, IN 2018 to Present Working in Enterprise Integration. Development of Gateway that manages over 1 Billion transactions per month between internal and external clients. Highly threaded and optimized service using .NET, SQL server and JavaScript/React front end to monitor throughput and modify Gateway behavior.    Also working with team to impose a better methodology using .NET Core, microservice architecture, automated unit testing, Git repos, and CI/CD through Azure DevOps. Recently began piloting a move to Azure technology stack with Azure SQL and Azure cloud native development with containers, services, and serverless. Applications Developer III Defenders - Indianapolis, IN 2014 to 2018 Research / Design / Development of a suite of applications that are mobile PowerApps-based with intelligent micro services in Azure to replace legacy software. Incorporating Azure SQL, Service Bus, REST API Apps, and Cognitive Services to better take advantage of mobile.    Development and maintenance of Techweb, the tablet-based POS for our 1500 installers. Techweb uses an Android Java app to display our website enabling installers to determine equipment, contracts, and to send data to a C#/SQL backend. Using DocuSign and PayTrace, Techweb obtains electronic signatures and takes payment in the field. Techweb uses node.js and a UX using jQuery, JavaScript and Kendo tools to guide installers in a wizard-based system to gather customer information, calculate materials, and pricing. Contract Software Developer First Databank - Indianapolis, IN 2014 to 2014 Development and maintenance of Single Page Applications for product delivery for medical data distribution. Used jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX and JSON together with a C# / Oracle back end to provide a very fluid and responsive UX for our users. Developed code for both back end and the UI. Contract Software Developer Stanley Security Systems - Fishers, IN 2013 to 2013 Developed time clock software using C# and .NET MVC 4 for 1000 technicians to report time, travel, and notes to take the place of paper timesheets. Created complex business rules in code and SQL for calculating pay. Automated data capture from Salesforce and combined with data from Sybase from a proprietary system to handle quotes for security systems. MVC 4 app with a Windows service to pull the data. Used PostSharp for Aspect-Oriented features such as logging and caching and property changes. Senior Developer Indianapolis Motor Speedway - Indianapolis, IN 2011 to 2013 Developed new features for C# .NET-based ticketing system for the world's largest sporting facility (over 250,000 seats) for three events including the Indianapolis 500. Web and desktop component handling tickets, suites, parking, camping, and passes. 3D views of sightline. Best-fit algorithms to optimize revenue. Promo packages, seniority, reordering, and group sales.    Expanded data warehouse using SQL SSIS, SSAS, and SSRS to hold 15 years of data. Mined data to explore trends in sales and revenue. Developed mapping application to view sales geographically over time. Measured media efficacy using "revenue circles". Dashboards with scorecards and KPIs using PerformancePoint Services on our SharePoint site. Designed and built all ETL functions.  Developed two C# ASP.NET websites for seasonal and single-event credentials. Systems incorporated electronic signatures, webcams, uploading and cropping of photos, and printing of ID cards. Data integration with three other systems.    Retired eight Linux servers, saving approximately $20,000 a year. Accomplished goal by consolidating data and systems to Amazon EC2 servers and porting LAMP platform to .NET/SQL. Reduced reliance on non-core competency platforms. Onsite support of IndyCar timing and scoring via EC2 instances. Integrated real-time race information to indycar.com for fans. Automated process for remote control, reducing need for onsite personnel. Senior Developer ITT Educational Services, Inc - Carmel, IN 2007 to 2011 Designed and developed document management systems using C# ASP.NET-based web application combined with web services and Intelledox document automation. Designed SQL Server database and stored procedures to store and manage data. System produces approximately 250K documents per year with digital signatures, using iTextSharp to produce custom PDFs in real-time.    Architected and developed a system to produce annual documentation for over 120 schools for accreditation reporting. Saves 100 hours per year per school in data gathering and analysis time. Standardized the report for school-to-school and year-to-year consistency.    Created new Virtual Library system using SharePoint, SQL Server, and EZProxy proxy server software for secure access and single sign-on to 25 outside digital vendors. Added enhancements and fixed defects for the Smartforms system. This system handles all financial aid transactions for over 80,000 students. Contract Programmer STARS - Indianapolis, IN 2007 to 2007 IN  Developed enhancements and fixed defects with Indiana BMV's STARS system. This three-tiered web/thin client application managed all of the BMV's information for 4.5 million drivers and 6.7 million vehicles. Developed enhancements for ordering of vanity and specialty plates. Contract Programmer, Applications Analyst Wishard Health Services - Indianapolis, IN 2001 to 2006 Maintained wishard.edu website and intranet including Perl/CGI applications for Nurse Triage and Health Connection. Developed Visual Basic web applications for Annual Reviews, Environmental Services and Change Management for use by over 3500 employees. Designed, developed and maintained a BI system using Essbase and related Hyperion technologies for financial analysis of over $15 million of outpatient pharmacy transactions annually. Senior Software Engineer mp3.com - San Diego, CA 2000 to 2001 San Diego, CA  Developed and maintained Perl programs for e-commerce (including JIT manufacturing of CDs and subscription services) for over 25 million registered users. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Department's Distributed Processing Group Ball State University - Muncie, IN University Computing Services Additional Information Skills  Excellent written and verbal communications skills. Able to translate between business and technical requirements. Strong understanding and use of software and architecture design patterns to allow for code reuse and ability to solve new problems quickly. Ability to quickly learn new technologies and juxtapose disparate systems into workable solutions.    Technical  C#, .NET, MVC, .NET Core, EF  Java, JavaScript, jQuery, node.js  REST APIs, Swagger/Swashbuckle  LINQ, CSS, NUnit, Git, VSTS  Azure DevOps    Unix / Linux / Bash  MSSQL (TSQL), SSIS, SSAS, SSRS  Azure SQL Server  Android Studio / Xamarin Studio  Kubernetes (AKS)    Azure / AWS / Docker  Service Bus, Azure Functions  Azure Cognitive Services  Twilio, Intrinio, SendGrid APIs  CI/CD/CT    INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INTERESTS  Mobile Development - Development using Android Studio and Azure-based APIs to develop native Android applications. Xamarin Studio to develop cross-platform mobile apps. Currently working with PowerApps to develop cross-platform apps with faster dev time and easier deployment.    AI / Cognitive Services - Development and testing of Microsoft and Google cognitive services including Facial and Speaker Recognition, OCR, and Knowledge APIs.    Blockchain - Working on Ethereum blockchain technology writing smart contracts using Geth, Solidity, and Azure BaaS. Personal applications using the GDAX APIs.    GPS and Mapping Systems - Created several applications using Google Maps API, Bing Maps API, and Geocoding Services for giving automatic directions for contact lists, creating animations from Street View and route planning.