Software Development Manager <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Manager Software Development Manager - AIS Inc Shrewsbury, MA Solutions-driven Software Development Manager skilled in identifying and delivering efficient business solutions. Architected, designed and led new insights into situations, encouraged new ideas and innovations, and designed and led implementation of cutting-edge applications. Skilled in driving improvements in the design and development of mission critical software and creating performance enhancement solutions that streamline operations and reduce overhead. Talented in driving the entire SDLC leveraging Agile and Scrum methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Development Manager AIS Inc - Leominster, MA 2018 to Present Manage a team of five developers that supports AIS manufacturing business of $200 Million-dollar sales annually. Develop, Maintain and Support ERP system for Sales management, BOM management, Packaging and Shipping modules. Build extensive modules to support Lean manufacturing. Provides technical leadership in support of manufacturing app development  • Led the design and implementation of machine automation that reduced manual machine job optimization that reduced total job submission from sales/engineering to manufacturing by 50%  • Led the design and implementation of Woodshop WIP tracking that is projected to reduce $200,000 in scrap waste annually by 35%.  • Overhauled outdated helpdesk and task management system with Jira  • Developing full product testing environment that will be a platform for automated test of BOM and products orders that will reduce overall test order process by 50%  • Review technical feasibility and work with team to develop timelines for product development.  • Manage product development budget, resource allocation and scheduling.  • Recruit and mentor software engineering team members.  • Lead planning and execution of project work plans, making ongoing revisions to meet changing needs.  • Direct development team efforts to achieve team and product development goals, objectives and milestones.  • Collaborate with cross functional teams in multiple locations to build software architectures that resolve complex business problems.  • Oversee solutions development initiatives utilizing input from consultants and technology vendors.  • Work with senior management and executive staff to develop cohesive plans for the development of innovative software products. Lead Software Developer Patriot Properties - Marblehead, MA 2017 to 2018 Recruited to lead to build innovative way of appraising real estate properties using regression analysis methodology. Linear regression Analysis is a machine learning technique that will revolutionize the appraisal and assessment tools (CAMA) which are used by local jurisdictions to appraise  • Designed and implemented regression analysis module for the flagship product using C# and Sql Server. Regression analysis module enables modelers to use existing tools such as SPSS and R, at the same time it reduced the complexity of modeling by eliminating redundant and cumbersome actions saving valuable time and resource.  • Lead and championed number of software process enhancement including agile and scrum methodologies.  • Designed data importing tool that will enable faster conversion time from client data to data format used by Assess Pro 5. Software Architect Vision Government Solutions Inc - Northborough, MA 2015 to 2017 Recruited to lead all aspects of design, development, and lead the implementation of large scale CAMA (Computer Aided Mass Appraisal) for leading-edge supplier of land parcel management, appraisal and assessment Software and Services Company.  • Architected and lead the integration of CAMA with IBM SPSS (Statistical Package for the Social Science) using PMML (Predictive Model Markup Language) enabling modelers to use existing and future modeling tools such as SPSS and R.  • Architected SAAS platform to migrate existing client-server solution to hosted web solution reducing implementation, development and deployment costs and efforts.  • Consolidated multiple and parallel branches of CAMA products into manageable three branches reducing duplication and effort using proper SDLC and agile methodologies  • Lead the creation of web-services to the flagship product for easy integration with peripherals and third-party client applications reducing and  • Streamlined integration interfaces for data import and export utilizing commonly used formats such as CSV, XML and introduction of web-services.  • Leading the research of Workflow engine to be integrated to current and future CAMA products, replacement to existing home-grown Reporting module. Principal Software Engineer AIR Worldwide Inc - Boston, MA 2011 to 2015 Lead engineer in all aspects of design, development, and implementation of next generation risk analysis modeling software, including improving performance of flagship products to enable companies to predict catastrophic events and calculate potential loss.  • Improved analytical engine runtime by 40% by leading design of performance enhancements that reduced engine processing time.  • Migration from flat file-based data files to MS SQL, including all aspects of design and implementation.  • Spearheaded the implementation of improved GIS Map to provide users with real-time exposure concentration, coverage area, and loss to region, resulting in improving process and saving time.  • Design and implementation of major UI functionality for product, including replacement of vector maps with modern ESRI maps and introduction of map functionalities. Senior Software Engineer Longwood Software Inc - Maynard, MA 2007 to 2011 Selected to design and implement web-based application to provide marketing and sales with ease in managing digital assets online.  Communicated with team members in analysis of business needs and development of various specifications and architecture. Automated programing, monitoring, and reporting functions through planning of overall design of applications, components, interfaces, and databases. Oversaw all aspects of project management, including needs assessment, testing, and implementation. Analyzed and resolved variety of technical issues. Partnered with Customer Relations and Support teams, driving all configuration and issue resolution at client sites. Provided training to team members on system usage. Designed GUI interface and database applications.  • Recognized for the design and implementation of PDF processing engine, providing enhanced customization and personalization of marketing assets.  • Spearheaded design and implementation of Hot List, enabling users to tag, manage, and access marketing materials and departmental assets.  • Improved overall security through use of encryption for critical customer data.  • Managed lifecycle project for development and implementation of Users Briefcase and Hot List into existing Marketing Asset Management to provide users with management of marketing materials and department assets.  • Developed, implemented, and integrated SSO through use of SAML integrated internal SSO with OKTA's implementation. Senior Software Engineer Tyco Safety Products Inc - Westminster, MA 1998 to 2006 • Recognized for leading the design and implementation of Fire Alarm Programming Unit, which resulted in reduced costs, increased security, and positioning company as leader in fire and safety monitoring.  • Served on team of 7 staff members that created 4100U programmer, builder, and converter to capture commands from Windows interfaces and converting into proprietary Simplex Programming Language utilizing Visual C++, Visual Studio 6.0, and MFC.  • Provided full lifecycle project development of Programmer Checklist and Notes into existing Fire Alarm Programming Unit for tracking and configuration of components.  • Led 2 staff members in development of Engineering Change Order Request Database for tracking and processing document archives to generate and track documents. Education MS in Computer Science Fitchburg State University - Fitchburg, MA Skills Visual studio, C#, C++, Client/server, Design patterns, Big Data, Computer Science, Javascript, NET, C, MVC, Software Development