Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - PopSockets LLC Denver, CO Work Experience Web Developer PopSockets LLC May 2017 to Present Python As the second fastest growing company in the nation, PopSockets  products are a hit with nearly everyone. Their products ease of use, customization and popularity have required a highly tailored web  MongoDB  experience.    Postgres • Worked with outside development agencies for the Poptivism program.  Implemented API endpoints and developed client side application  allowing users to generate over 1,000 public facing product s and MySQL counting.  • Development Team lead from January to May 2019, prioritized tasks, planned sprints and reported constraints and blockers to supervisor.  Ruby Created dashboard in data studio to help predict sprint throughput.  • Worked as a team of two, to build PopSockets Customizer, generating  sales of over $10,000,000 a year.  • Over six months I rebuilt our Shopify theme that improved site speed by  2.5s, increased conversion by 40 basis points, and increased average  Frontend  order value by $1.30.  • Setup deployment pipeline with custom scripts to handle 9 separate  SCSS/CSS  Shopify sites, while maintaining content integrity in new releases saving  156 work hours a year.  JavaScript ES6 • Reduced Shopify product creation time by 95% through custom python  program to handle specialized product images, custom meta-fields, and product model.  React Jr. Web Developer Marietta College August 2016 to May 2017 Managed content for the College's WordPress website, writing custom  jQuery, and html snippets for requested features.  • Lead the migration of over 350 pages from the previous website to the new website. Software Workflow Intern Ricoh May 2016 to August 2016 Heroku    Shopify • Improved efficiency in the workplace through creating partial/modular  workflows allowing better print production. Accomplished this through Serverless (AWS/GCloud)  testing workflows in virtual environments by using Jenkins and Windows  Build Process (Gulp, Webpk, Babel) server 2012. Read Java created by the development team to identify  code that could be modularized and added into a workflow. Education B.S. in Computer Information Systems Marietta College - Marietta, OH 2019 Skills Front End, Javascript, Jquery, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, XML, Excel, SQL, Python Links http://LinkedIn.com/in/connorbailes http://Github.com/smartbadger