Sponsor Direct Sponsor Direct Sponsor Direct - CONXEO Township of Monroe, NJ Work Experience Sponsor Direct CONXEO - Tarrytown, NY March 2010 to Present provides web-based solutions to help large and medium-sized organization to manage requests. SponsorPort was Conxeo's first web application and targeted to the sponsorship industry. Conxport replaces the old SponsorPort application. Conxport is a web-based solution that enables any business to manage incoming requests.  Skills used: ASP.NET, C#, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, HTML, CSS, MS SQL, MVC 4.0, Web API  Key Clients: Bank of America, Dick's Sporting Goods, Lexus, Monster, Southwest Airlines, Walmart, and Wells Fargo    03/2010-Present Senior Software Developer/Technical Project Manager  • Designed, Authored, and Delivered Coxport, Conxeo's newest product  ? Requirements took the following into consideration- SponsorPort features and limitations, client wish list, market research, scalability, technology and design best practices.  ? Implementation & Design: Used various design patterns to solve design problems.  ? UI Engineer: Work closely with UI team for better user experience.  ? Product performance: Work closely with DBA to improve DB performance.  ? Product flexibility: Designed highly configurable product to count for shifting business needs.  ? Team management and development: Recruit and manage contractors to implement. Provide feedback and make hiring and firing decisions.  ? Documentation: Requirements, design, planning and testing.  ? Enforced code and implementation standards.  ? Created Web API to validate SSO token for client.  ? Implemented custom MVC portal for bank of America to register for incoming events.  ? Maintained time zone data throughout the system using cookies and sessions.  • Facilitate development discussion during quarterly meetings of entire staff.  • Present Conxport to Conxeo board members.  • Honoured with "Conxeo Cup" for the most dedication to the company and ingenuity and intelligence in my work and the person who has gone way over and above their job description.  • Contribute to new product branding and marketing strategy ideas:  ? Promoted the internal use of Conxport to manage support requests and feedback items.  ? Planned weekly webinar sessions to promote new product features.  • Led the monthly and quarterly SponsorPort change control projects:  ? Analyzed client requirements and produced quotes (ballpark and final) for client projects.  ? Implemented the Quickbase App to manage requests (Tasks, Bugs, and Quotes).  ? Scheduled project tasks, adjusted statuses, and communicated changes to relevant IT and Client Services team members.  ? Supervised the workload of DBA, QA, and 2 Programmers.  ? Ensured delivery of projects within promised timeline and within budget.  • Provided training and feedback to the IT team. Mediated between team members when needed.  • Helped hire and train new DBA & programmers. Provided performance report to IT Manager.  • Participated in client-attended meetings about project details and scope with Client manager.  • Supported client managers in the specifications standardization process; provided best practice research and expertise.  • Implemented WCF for Tax-ID verification which provided by customers through their request.  • Updated and supported the Web-based SponsorPort application.  • Responsible for writing complex and efficient stored procedure.  • Use SQL Red gate tool to transfer development work to another environment.  Cosco/Navitor Industries Harwood Heights, IL  Cosco is manufacturing marking devices with stamps and other core product. It delivers web-based solution to client to place order for business card, envelopes, labels and others. (Staplescustomprinting.com/Staplesinstantprinting.com)  Key Client: Staples, Office Depot  Skills used: ASP.NET, XML, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, MS SQL and C# Software Developer Upload File Control - Bethlehem, PA August 2009 to February 2010 Marlabs is an award-winning provider of innovative Information Technology and Knowledge Process Outsourcing services. One of their services like Get Benefits System is a web design and development firm that is used for maintaining employee benefits administration business in college. It provides a user-friendly interface, which allows the providers to upload their content (Medical/Dental/Vision plans, rates of plans etc) to the website. Thus, the providers can easily market their plans through this website. It also allows the employer (general public/ institutions /companies etc) to view, compare, and select the best plans based on their needs. Get-Benefits combine the employee benefits on one invoice, no matter which carrier.    Skills used: ASP.NET, ASP, XML, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, MS SQL and C# Jr. Software Developer News Subscription January 2009 to July 2009 • Analyzed user requirements & specifications and translated into development projects.  • Developed various e-commerce and real-estate based sites that included features like CMS, News Subscription, Appointment systems and Directory Engine.  • Used ASP.net caching mechanism, configuring optimizations and securing web application.  • Used XMLSpy for validating and debugging XML and XSLT files.  • Consumed WCF Services provided for dentists and implemented security for the communications.  • Mapped objects using Language integration Query (LINQ).  • Wrote SQL queries and Stored Procedures using Sql Server 2005 Education MS in Computer Science STEVENS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - Hoboken, NJ May 2008 BS in Computer Science DHARAM SINGH DESAI INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - Nadiad, Gujarat May 2005 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C#, Java, C, C++, VB6, VB.Net  Web Development ASP.Net, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Ajax, Web Services, ASP, VBScript, XML, XSL, XSLT, IIS, WebAPI, MVC, JIRA, GIT  Application MS Office, VisualStudio.Net, UML tools, Dreamweaver, Quick base  Databases MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, MS Access, MySQL, Sql Server Red Gate Tool  Others Design patterns, N - Unit