Sr. Software Tech Lead Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Tech Lead Sr. Software Tech Lead Chandler, AZ • Sr. Software Tech Lead Analyst with 10+ years of industry experience in developing Enterprise Applications using Microsoft Technologies.NET, C#, WCF,ASP.NET, MVC ,Web API , Entity Framework, WPF, SQL, .NET Core  • Experience in leading product development in an onsite offshore environment.  • Experience working closely with client to define requirement and designing the solution using latest technologies and frameworks.  • Strong Experience in Finance / Insurance domain.  • Experience in Web Development using ASP.NET MVC, AngularJS / 2 ,Typescript, Bootstrap , CSS , Java Script , HTML  • Experience in Different Architecture /Pattern MVC / MVVM / DI (Autofac / Ninject).  • Experience in creating SOAP and Restful Web Services using WCF / Web API.  • Experience in SQL Server and IBM DB2 database.  • Experience in writing CommLib Pricing Script using Python - Jupyter Notebook  • Experience in Distributed Messaging Service using Tibco EMS /RV.  • Experience in Test Driven Development [ TDD ] using NUnit, Moq  • Experience in version control using BitBucket,TFS and SVN.  • Experience in various tools Jira , Teamcity , Autosys , Sonar , Github , uDeploy  • Understand complete SDLC Life Cycle by means of Development and Operation standard ( DMM / OMM )  • Understand Azure Cloud Basics - Microsoft Certified Azure Fundamentals.  • Experience in working on Desktop as well Cloud based environment [ VMWare Horizon ]  • Strong problem solving and analytical skills with good ability to follow project standards.  • Excellent communication skills. Adapt at building strong working relationships with co-workers and management.  • Effective team player and quick learner with ability to work with minimal supervision.  • Experience in working offshore -onshore environment and coordinating global team.  • Experience in working with client directly for requirement understanding and solution implementation -London-U.K., Houston- USA Work Experience Sr. Software Tech Lead Citi Bank Technologies - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2016 to July 2019 Project: - Simpliciti RTR Dashboard - A Web Based dashboard to monitor health of Application by means of publishing data of trades and other stats. Proactively identify pattern and alert on dashboard before trading desk notify. Dashboard is meant to integrate on CITI ATOM framework and support to onboard cloud and other production support Environment.  Client: Commodities Front Office - Houston    Technology /Tools: .NET C#, Angular 2, Web API, SQL, Entity Framework, BitBucket , JIRA    Project: - Simpliciti RTR Notification Service - An API to process tibco notification and trigger RTR calculation for trades booked over midnight. Midnight trades get processed and send data to UI using RTR application. It also trigger process to load SOD data into Orleans memory.    Client: Commodities Front Office - Houston  Technology /Tools: .NET C#, Tibco, Web API, SQL, Dapper , Autofac ,BitBucket , JIRA    Project:- Simpliciti Configuration Management - A Web Based Application to manage static data of Application. Allows to update master tables data with admin permission and also production support can review data with audit history.    Client: Commodities Front Office - Houston  Technology/Tools: .NET 4.6 , C# , Angular 2 , Web API , Bootstrap, Entity Framework , BitBucket ,JIRA , Visual Studio Code    Project: Commodities front office Risk Management system - Simpliciti RTR- for linear trades. Intraday Risk will be calculated using SOD and LTD Risk using Citi Quant Library. It supports SOD, EOD Risk Calculation and on Demand Scenario based Risk Calculation. Product is deployed across globe - Houston, London and Singapore.    Client: Commodities Front Office - Houston  Technology/Tools: .NET 4.6, C#, WCF, WPF, ASP.NET MVC, SQL Server, Tibco EMS , Python  VS.Net 2017, Team City, SQL 2014, BitBucket, uDeploy, Juypter, VMware Horizon Cloud    Responsibilities:  • Consult and understand Trade Desk User's functional requirements.  • Designing user interaction models, workflows and user interfaces  • Design and develop system architectural following design principles to improve performance, capacity, and scalability of system using Microsoft Technologies.  • Coordinating with team members, QA and Support team members for end to end delivery.  • Participating in UAT activities with Business Analyst and End users and get sign off.  • Use Jira to create and track user stories and issues, work assignment, sprint planning and tracking progress of the system. Principal Software Developer Nomura Services - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2007 to September 2016 Project: ILP - Internal Liquidity Project - To manage risk exposure for proprietary trading by product controllers of back office systems. Besides, calculate charges for collateral transfer.  Client: Equity BackOffice Product Controllers, London    Responsibilities:  • Working as Team Leader which includes Ensuring Quality Delivery of Project from India.  • Understanding requirement with business analyst and preparing technical BRDs.  • Agile Methodology for achieving milestone of project.  • Contributing as a Sr. Developer using Test Driven Development (TDD) Approach.  • Communication with global Development team and stakeholders for gap analysis.  • Coordinating with team members, QA and RTB team members for end to end delivery.  • Participating in UAT activities with Business Analyst and End users and get sign off.  • Full STACK development of project using advance architecture for error management and scalability.    Technologies: .NET 4.6, C#, WCF, SQL Server, WPF,ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework  Tools/Utilities:VS.Net 2017, Team City, SQL 2014, SVN, Autosys    Project: EUCLID - Equity-Derivative Risk Management System - To manage risk exposure for Structured Product and OTC of Front Office Desk.  Client: Equity Derivative Front Office,London  Responsibilities:  • Working as Individual contributor on enhancements, defect analysis and fixing.  • Understanding requirement with business analyst and preparing technical BRDs.  • Design and develop UI screens using WPF/C#/Visual Studio 2010.  • Development of real time and EOD feeds.  • Developing stored procedures to fetch position data for downstream feed development.  • Communication with global Development team and stakeholders for gap analysis.  • Coordinating with team members, QA and RTB team members for end to end delivery.  • Following all development process by using SVN, JIRA, Twiki and Change Ticket.  • Participating in UAT activities with Business Analyst and End users and get sign off.  • L3 Level support on need basis.    Technologies: .NET 4.5, C#, WCF, SQL Server, WPF, Tibco RVnant Script  Tools/Utilities: VS.Net 2017, Team City, SQL 2014, SVN, MS Visio, JIRA    Project:MIS - Management Information System - To scan generated files across windows share and BBS location and match against Static Data. Generate various summary Reports  Client: Equity Derivative Front Office, London  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering and Prototype designing of MIS  • Involved in Framework design of 'MiSEDUpdate' which keeps polling every hourly for generated file either on windows servers, BBS or FTP location.  • Developed MiSEDMan GUI for Static Data Management.  • Development of reports (.rdl ) using SSRS.  • Setup Database driven subscription process to send summary information in email.  • Written Database stored procedure to match scan data with static data.  • Analyzing feasibility of any new Nomura system inclusion into MIS.  • Coordinating with CTB and RTB Managers of other systems globally.  • Educating/training to users how to use systems for static data maintenance.    Technologies:.NET 4.5, C#, SQL Server Reporting Server (SSRS)  Tools/Utilities:VS.Net 2012, SQL 2008, SVN Software Consultant CapGemini - Mumbai, Maharashtra November 2006 to September 2007 Project: EOS - Execution Optimization System is auto trade ordering system using algorithm strategies. Send trades in FIX Format to Exchange gateway and monitor status of trade execution.  Client: Algorithmic Trade System, USA    Responsibilities:  • Creating Framework to transform trade xml to FIX compliant xml  • Development of FIX inbound/outbound gateways.  • Development of DLLs to provide OMS trade data to GUI and DMA.  • Analysis, and creation of stored procedures using SQL Server 2008  • Developing and Unit Testing.  • Code review of team members.  • Followed agile methodology.  • Codebase version control and Release management.  • Perform defect analysis and root cause isolation in a timely manner.  • Coordinate with offshore team and lead development technically.    Technologies:.NET 3.5, C#, SQL Server 2005, FIX 4.0  Tools/Utilities:VS.Net 2010, TFS    Project: Store Front 2.0 - Online Portal for complete order management of printing Material for customers. Besides supporting complete Administrative processing for back office.  Client: CGX Solutions , USA    Responsibilities  • Gathering requirements from client and analyzing  • Involved in development of Administrative module.  • Implemented the Logging and Exception Handling application blocks.  • Created WCF Services for client/server communication.  • Developed data access layer using ADO.NET Entity Framework. Specified SQL queries, stored procedures on back-end database.  • Involved in doing the code review of team members.  • Involved in unit testing.  • Implemented custom installers for each connector.  • Involved in setup and deployment packages in client environment.    Technologies: ASP.NET, C#, WCF, SQL Server 2005  Tools/Utilities:VS.Net 2005,TFS , Enterprise Library Software Engineer TCS - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2005 to November 2006 Project: eKATS (Electronic -Kuwait Automated Trading System)  A Complete solution for Stock exchange for Kuwait following Kuwait government Equity Trading rules.  Client: Kuwait Stock Exchange, Kuwait    Responsibilities:  • Gathering and analyze the requirements of Brokerage module  • Design Mock Forms using Visual studio.  • Created class diagram using Microsoft Visio.  • Involved in development of Broker Administration Module using C#.  • Preparing test cases and active participation with QA team for end to end execution.  • Interacting with Delivery manager offshore and onshore for deployment.  • Coordinating across module team members for complete execution.    Technologies:C# .NET, Windows Forms, SQL Server 2000, Tandem Server  Tools and Utilities:VS.Net 2003, VSS Software Programmer AvaniCimcon - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2004 to September 2005 Project: Data Middleware  A Data Middleware to transform Insurance details which Legacy insurance system can consume which is in COBOL. New System would be make available to client / end user where insurance details like contract, annuity, and claim get inserted which send back to COBOL system via Middleware.  Client: LegacyNet, USA  Responsibilities:  • Understanding requirement and creating BRDs.  • Involved in design and development of core framework using CLSA.  • Designing pseudo website to send test data using ASP.NET.  • Preparing automated test cases.  • Participating in Release cycle.  • Followed TDD methodology.    Technologies: C#, ASP.NET, Windows Forms, SQL Server, Java Script  Tools and Utilities: VS.Net 2003, VSS Education M.Sc. in Computer Application in Computer Application I.T Gujarat University 2004 Links http://Technologies.NET