Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Saratoga Springs, NY Seasoned technologist with over ten years of experience fulfilling diverse business demands in entrepreneurial environments as well as worldclass companies such as Nielsen, Gracenote Inc, Xerox Corp, and the NFL. Known for operating a highly efficient team passionate about delivering effective technical solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Transfinder - Schenectady, NY August 2018 to June 2019 Web and mobile application development on iOS and Android platforms for school transportation and map routing solutions.    As as one of the more senior engineers my duties include code reviews, git merge request, and release management in addition to the ordinary development responsibilities of each engineer.     Technologies Used:  Git, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript (ES6), Typescript, Angular 7, NodeJs, Grunt, .NET, Apache Cordova Software Engineer SportsHub Technologies - Remote June 2018 to January 2019 As a frontend developer I built fantasy sports games and community features for the daily fantasy sports site, Fanball.com. Primarily I built an auction engine with VueJS and Pusher (PubSub) which let 6 owners bid on a pool of players 4 at a time. See a demonstration here:    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-tR6WdIZhTI&t=530    Technologies Used:  Git, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript (ES6), VueJS, NodeJs, Grunt Software Engineer Gracenote, Inc. - Queensbury, NY January 2015 to June 2018 Managed a team of three engineers who produced a sports and TV metadata product called OnEntertinament Sports which was presented at CES in 2016 and makes about $2 million a year for Gracenote. The platform uses Ruby scripts to ingest raw sports data, hits an API built with Groovy and publishes processed data to a Kafka queue where it populates a Mashery API.    Designed and developed an editorial interface for our internal sports data using AngularJS, and Ruby on Rails. Its Javascript dependencies were managed with npm and bower. The sass style sheets and javascript files were compiled and minified using grunt tasks. Resources were provisioned and deployed to AWS using ansible.    Technologies Used:  Git, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Ruby on Rails, AWS, Ansible, NodeJs, Grunt, Kafka Application Developer Xerox Litigation Services - Albany, NY September 2013 to January 2015 Served on the team who designed and implemented a complete user interface redesign for the company's flagship eDiscovery platform. We also implemented bandwidth saving, asset compilation improving page load speeds by 30%.    Technologies Used  HTML, CSS, JS (ReactJS), PHP, Oracle Co-Founder Five1Eight Internet Media LLC - Albany, NY 2011 to 2013 Designed and developed a play-money sports wagering platform that simulated a sports gaming experience. The product also kept our users informed with blogs, news, stats, and schedules for every pro and Division-1 college team in North America.    Technologies Used:   HTML, CSS, JavaScript (jQuery), Ruby on Rails, MySQL, AWS Application Developer Sports Technologies LLC - Collinsville, CT 2009 to 2012 Designed, developed, and supported fantasy sports games and content publishing platforms for world-class brands in sports and media interfacing with major social media networks. In 2010, my work was nominated for a Sports Emmy.    Technologies Used:   HTML, CSS, JavaScript (jQuery), Ruby on Rails, NodeJS, MySQL, AWS IT Specialist New York State - New York, NY 2004 to 2009 Designed and Developing Web applications with Adobe ColdFusion for internal and public use for the Department of Civil Service and the Office of the Attorney General.    Technologies Used:   HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ColdFusion, Oracle Education Bachelor of Computer Science Siena College - Loudonville, NY 2000 to 2004 Skills Javascript, MySQL, Git, Javascript, jQuery, MySQL, HTML 5 Awards 2010 Sports Emmy, Nominee 2010 2010 Sports Emmy, Nominee, for Outstanding New Approaches Sports Programming, for work on NFL.com Weekly Countdown Groups Vice President, Saratoga Wilton Youth Baseball January 2016 to Present Executive Board member and Information Coordinator for the 501(c)(3) nonprofit youth baseball organization. Additional Information Gigs & Side Projects    BoltDraft.com   Freelance Ruby on Rails Developer for the fastest Daily Fantasy Sports Contest on the Web.    Football.com  Author of a bi-weekly Fantasy Football editorial column.