Architect Architect Architect - CGI Inc Fairfax, VA Innovative enterprise architect with 12+ years of experience in enabling business vision and strategy through process, application, data and technology alignment. Unique blend of management skills with in-depth technical knowledge. Extensive experience in architecture analysis, design and road mapping, product development, stakeholder management and implementation governance. Remarkable history of transforming business needs and desires into engaging, efficient and successful products in multiple industry verticals. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Architect CGI Inc May 2014 to Present Hands on experience in designing technology agnostic solution using service oriented architecture after thorough analysis of existing business problems and opportunities. Proficient in creating context diagram, data flow diagram, and process flow diagram to elicit, validate, document, and review functional requirements with stakeholders. Expert understanding and hands-on experience of implementing Agile Software Development Methodology. Facilitate requirements gathering session. Define various aspects of architecture for application migration. Create proof of concepts. Conduct buy-or-build analysis and identify appropriate tools and technologies. Build comprehensive application migration roadmap. Conduct application architecture reviews. Evaluate architecture change requests. Very good at building vendor partnerships and price point negotiations. Collaborate with delivery teams to ensure alignment with the targets and reference architecture.  Some accomplishments in this role include  ? Delivered highly visible, complex systems on time and on budget  ? Facilitated requirements gathering and conflict resolution sessions with internal and external stakeholders.  ? Designed product development road maps for new products, prioritizing stakeholder needs and performance requirements through careful analysis.  ? Maintained stakeholder satisfaction rating of over 9 points, out of 10, throughout the process.  ? Created self-managing and self-sustaining teams that operated independently with minimum guidance.  ? Developed business relations and partnerships with external software providers.  ? Identified tools and technologies best suited for product development through extensive market research. Senior Application Developer CGI Group Inc May 2007 to May 2014 Provide technical leadership for developing system architecture and design for clients from diverse industries. Coordinate design and implementation of applications, collaborating with project managers, engineering teams, and client representatives to ensure on-time completion of project deliverables. Design web applications using Object Oriented Design (OOD) methodology and maintain content for .Net based systems. Some projects include  • CMS Websites: Developed system architecture for new tools. Led complex enhancements for the system collaborating with different product groups  ? Developed application architecture for creating 508 compliant PDFs on the fly.  ? Led the implementation of Behaviour Driven Development process, leading to reduced defects by 80%.  • Momentum: Developed and supported highly scalable flagship federal financial ERP system, based on distributed system architecture, used by most of the federal government to manage funds at different stages including appropriation, budgeting, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and reporting.  ? Designed server-side components and stored procedures to improve billing job performance by 40%.  ? Spearheaded data conversion from multiple legacy system, streamlining the processes with minimum impact on operations. Software Developer State University - East, Tennessee, US August 2005 to May 2007 Engineered custom features and modules for new applications; devised enhancements for existing application suites. Conducted detailed testing throughout life cycle and resolved system issues. Authored system design documentation.  • High Performance Computing: Designed and implemented a cluster based solution to expedite animation rendering for digital media students. Coordinated with students, professors and IT maintenance groups for a best suited solution.  ? Using cycle scavenging distributed system processing, reduced animation rendering time from days to hours. Education Master's in Applied Computer Science East Tennessee State University August 2005 to May 2007 Bachelor's in Computer Science & Engineering Uttar Pradesh Technical University August 2000 to July 2004 Skills .Net (7 years), architecture (10+ years), ASP (Less than 1 year), ASP.Net (Less than 1 year), AWS (Less than 1 year), budgeting (7 years), BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS (4 years), C# (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), change management (Less than 1 year), ClearCase (Less than 1 year), ClearQuest (Less than 1 year), cost estimation (Less than 1 year), documentation. (1 year), estimation (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), governance. (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), mapping (Less than 1 year), requirements gathering (4 years) Certifications/Licenses TOGAF 9 Certified March 2019 to Present Project Management Professional (PMP) July 2016 to July 2019 SAFe 4 DevOps Practitioner (SDP) August 2018 to Present Additional Information Key Strengths  ·       Architecture landscape definition  ·       Business & technical process definition  ·       Architecture transition planning and road mapping   ·       Build Vs Buy Analysis  ·       Opportunity identification   ·       Stakeholder identification and management  ·       Implementation governance  ·       Work definition and facilitation  ·       Architectural analysis  ·       Product design and development   ·     Architectural change management  ·       Problem solving and troubleshooting  ·       Project cost estimation and budgeting  ·       Project and portfolio management  ·     Team leadership   ·       Workshop facilitation   Technical & Professional competencies  ·       Methodologies: TOGAF, BPMN, DevOps, Architecture design, Agile   ·       Soft Skills: Leadership, Effective Communication, Presentation Skills, Critical Thinking, Problem Solving, Negotiation, Meeting Facilitation, Business Process Definition, Requirements Gathering, Meaningful Technical Documentation, Quality Assurance   ·      Language & Tools: AWS, Docker, Go, Node.Js, C#.Net, Java, Java Scripting, ASP.Net, C/C++, Xml, Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL,  Aurora, MS Visio, Git, Team Foundation Server (TFS), ClearQuest, ClearCase, SVN