Remote Senior Software Engineer Remote Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Austin, TX Experienced developer of interactive and deterministic computer systems. Life long learner and excited to use new technologies. Expert in software system integration, embedded systems, and machine 2 machine interfacing with IPv4/6 & other networks. Familiar with debugging and development using hardware schematics. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Remote Senior Software Engineer Trustgrid, INC - Austin, TX April 2019 to July 2019 Develop software defined WAN edge devices that integrated cloud applications to customer on-premise systems and data. Edge devices utilized web API management and container-based architecture for system integration. Interfaced edge devices with multiple cloud providers such as AWS and Azure. Created scalable, container based control-plane software running in cloud to manage devices, orchestration via kubernetes. Development roles include:    *Adding management features  *Fix known bugs  *Create testing plans Remote Senior Software Engineer FSMLabs - Austin, TX September 2016 to March 2019 Contributed to the development of TimeKeeper. TimeKeeper is an intelligent, complete  software-driven clock synchronization solution, enabling secure, resilient, and state-of-the-art enterprise clock synchronization at high accuracy. The TimeKeeper Platform is an integrated suite of products for secure clock sourcing, distribution, synchronization, monitoring, management, and administration for Linux, Windows, and Solaris. Various roles include:    *Interface enterprise appliance with various GPS devices and high end oscillators.  *Maintain custom implementation of NTP and PTP, both client and server.   *Improve IPv6 compatibility for custom NTP and PTP implementation.  *Enterprise level customer support.  *Help maintain regulatory compliance for FINRA/MIFID II auditing. Senior Software Engineer Pace (now Arris) - Austin, TX December 2012 to June 2016 Help develop embedded linux firmware for customer premise DSL gateways that have been deployed over AT&T's UVerse network. Hardware platform contained a broadcom MIPS BCM6311 SoC, a DSL modem, forward assist processor, gigabit switch, and 802.11 ac WiFi. Gateway platform classified and prioritized video (TV), voice (VOIP), and data packets and had an embedded web server and database and was remotely managed via TR069. Various roles to maintain existing and add new features to the firmware:  * Major contributions to the gateway's IPv6 network manager; module handled IPv6 routes, filtered traffic, processed router advertisements and emitted router advertisements. Web interface component was able to view and configure IPv6 settings and was remotely managed with TR069 amendment 2.  * Integrated a DHCPv6 client and server into the gateway platform. Automatically managed the delegated prefix and assigned prefixes to other IPv6 routers.  * Performance analysis and benchmarking of the platform to uncover and fix critical paths with a number of profiling data collection mechanisms and tools such as wireshark, strace, gdb, and valgrind. Senior Engineer Waldo Networks - Austin, TX January 2010 to December 2012 Help create a touch-screen based patient monitoring system, responsible for development of core technology components. Used continuous integration techniques to achieve:    ? Patient data acquisition component that linked the back-end cloud to nearby medical sensor over USB, ZigBee, or Bluetooth via a customer premise gateway. Supported IEEE/ISO 11073 compatible sensors and a handful of lowcost over the counter medical sensors. Notable feature was its highly reliable and efficient software stack capable of many simultaneous sensor device connections in a very low memory footprint.    ? Personal Emergency Response System using a custom embedded wearable device. Required software to interoperate on three different platforms: the embedded wearable device running an RTOS, a mobile gateway running linux, and the backend cloud. Collaborated with an outsourced entity to help implement the embedded device's low power manager & automatic fall detection feature and managed the integration of the subcomponents.    ? Custom hardware platform based on Texas Instrument's OMAP3 SoC. Involved with board bring up and lowlevel platform software such as remote system updates.    ? Required expert abilities in embedded C, specifying protocols as State Machines, developing software stacks and APIs, nonblocking IO and eventdriven architecture, distributed computing to scale passed the typical 10,000 concurrent client connection limit found with most server platforms, relational databases (SQL), keyvalue pair databases (NoSQL), and other web technologies. Engineer Synchromesh Computing, LLC - Austin, TX August 2005 to February 2010 Senior Engineer 2008-2010  Engineer 2006-2008  Junior Engineer 2005-2006    Electric vehicle control unit. MISRA-C:2004 compliant software implementing j1939 and other proprietary protocol stacks. Responsible for the coordination and control of vehicle components such as ABS, automatic transmission, redundant battery array, electric motor, and dashboard. Managed the development of electronic circuits that interfaced vehicle components such as throttle and brake pedals to the embedded computer system.    Battery configuration and diagnostic software. Controller Area Network (CAN) of thousands of lithium phosphate cells interfaced with a C# GUI front end to navigate the configuration & diagnostic forms.     Portable music player and music purchasing system. Portable device capable of browsing an offline music catalog and purchasing music when online. System linked a handheld player via wifi to a desktop server connected to various service providers to complete a music purchase transaction. Required expert abilities in SOAP web services, C# & ASP.NET, SQL, embedded C, secure client-server architecture, combinatorial algorithms, and tree data structures.    Worked with various companies to help analyze their pre-release hardware and software platforms. Create detailed reports analyzing its performance and describe its setup & typical usage experience. Reports were often used in marketing materials. Software Developer Builder Homesite, Inc. - Austin, TX February 2005 to November 2005 Developed ASP .NET tools for back-end developers. Primarily used C# and MSSQL and wrote various validation pages for XML data. Education Computer Engineering University of Texas - Austin, TX 2002 to 2006 Skills Android development (5 years), c/c++ (10+ years), Linux Development (10+ years), Valgrind (3 years), Wireshark (6 years), google/sanitizers (2 years), Google App Engine (4 years), Atlassian JIRA (4 years), TCP/IPv6 development (4 years), Node.js (3 years), J1939 (3 years), Bluetooth (4 years), MISRA C (4 years), Python (6 years), Lua (2 years), C# (8 years), Angular (2 years), SIP (3 years), Java (8 years), Continuous Integration (8 years), Agile development (8 years), OO design (6 years), JQuery (4 years), GNU autotools (6 years), cmake (3 years), ZigBee (2 years), Cloud Computing (4 years), Kubernetes (1 year), Container Orchestration (2 years), gRPC (3 years), Golang (1 year), Linux (10+ years), Javascript (8 years), ReactJS (2 years), MYSQL (6 years), Android, Git (5 years), CSS (4 years), PHP (4 years) Links http://www.patentsencyclopedia.com/app/20110282168 Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/odsjlzr0if0finxm Data Analysis — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v4yzcprs1do5eeft Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.