Freelance Developer - Remote Freelance <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Remote Senior Java Engineer/ Developer Davenport, FL With over 15 years of software development experience and a knack for troubleshooting production issues or design flaws, I believe that my experience and knowledge will equip me with the skills necessary to tackle any production or development issues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Developer - Remote Hy-Tech Solutions - Davenport, FL September 2015 to Present Created and submitted project proposals  ? Gathered business requirements directly from client  ? Translated business requirements into design documents  ? Designed, coded, tested and implemented software solution  ? Trained client on how to use and maintain software Senior Software Engineer IHS, Inc - West Valley City, UT August 2013 to August 2015 Conducted team meetings  ? Mentored and led junior developers  ? Gathered business requirements from client  ? Translated business requirements into design documents  ? Designed, coded, tested and implemented interfaces(APIs)  ? Created tasks and assigned them to appropriate team members Senior Software Engineer KForce Consulting, Inc - Murray, UT November 2012 to July 2013 Collaborated with various departments to obtain the product requirements in a timely manner.  ? Designed, enhanced and maintained doctor procedure scheduling application.  ? Diagnosed, troubleshot and resolved issues from multi-tiered enterprise system.  ? Wrote automated tools for diagnosing and troubleshooting high volume issues. Senior Internet Application Developer Xactware, Inc - Orem, UT November 2010 to October 2012 Trained QA, client services, sales and new web developers.  ? Redesigned the PDF merging program to be more scalable, robust and significantly improved performance.  ? Enhanced and maintained the Industry Trend reporting module. Senior Java Developer Open Solutions, Inc - Orem, UT July 2006 to October 2010 Designed, coded, implemented and maintained multiple interfaces to various banking and telephony products.  ? Enhanced and maintained the entire receipt printing and output system.  ? Took initiative to design, code and implement an in-house replacement solution for a third party check creation and printing product. Thereby making the overall software product more profitable and easier to maintain. Software Engineer Consultant Tek Systems, Inc - Salt Lake City, UT June 2001 to July 2006 Wrote automated tests using Java and its associated tool set.  ? Enhanced and maintained build and release tools using Perl.  ? Conducted stress, load, performance, regression, white box and black box testing of an entire operating system.  ? Worked onsite at Landesk, Dentrix, emWare and Novell. Education B. S. degree in Computer Science & Psychology Brigham Young University - Provo, UT August 2004 A.A.S. degree in Computer Science & Psychology Ricks College - Rexburg, ID June 1996 Certificate National Education Center - Philadelphia, PA April 1990 Skills API (6 years), C# (4 years), HTML (10+ years), PERL (3 years), JAVA (10+ years), Databases (10+ years), MS Sql Server (4 years), SQL (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Oracle (8 years), Sybase (5 years), PostgresSQL (3 years), Linux, Spring Additional Information SKILLS    Languages: C#, Java, Perl, Pascal, Javascript, HTML, CSS  Databases: Oracle, Sybase, Postgres, MS SQL Server, MS Access, MySQL  Specialties: Core Java, Spring, JQuery, JSP, Servlet, Ajax, Xml, Soap, Rest, API, JSON, interfaces, web services