Software Developer (Part Time) <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Part Time) Riverside, CA Seasoned professional with experience in designing and coding the front end and back end of applications. Apply full life cycle of development to applications. Ability to leverage different languages to create innovative programs. Proven track record of creating complex projects to help departments to run more efficiently. Work Experience Software Developer (Part Time) MSASO Software and Consulting LLC - Redlands, CA May 2019 to Present Coding various programming tasks in Java to build and prepare innovative healthcare products for launch.   Write ASP.NET MVC web administration pages for health care products using C# Application Programmer University of California, Riverside November 1998 to June 2019 · Developed applications as a full stack developer  o Back end was written in Java, Groovy, Grails, ASP, and/or Oracle’s PL/SQL Web Toolkit.  o Front end was written in Angular, jQuery, Ext Js, JavaScript, CSS, and/or HTML.    · Interacted with databases  o Wrote Oracle SQL and PL/SQL code.  o Architected database table's design and structure.  o Tuned Oracle tables and SQL statements.    · Developed the Graduate Application, Admissions and Financial Web-based System (Grad SIS)  o Grad SIS is a comprehensive, end-to-end graduate admissions system. It contains an application system, application payment using a major credit card process, recommender’s submission system, flexible routing system for approval/denial, financial support/allocation management system, create and validate applicant’s Financial Offer system, Post-Admissions Processing system, admissions decision and student’s response system.    · Developed the Graduate Enrolled Student - Financial Web-based System (Grad ESS)  o Grad ESS is a comprehensive, routed support/budget management system designed to facilitate the modification, approval & disbursement of graduate student financial support, which is integrated with UCR’s Banner Financial Aid system.    · Developed the Graduate Student Petition Web-based System (R’Grad)  o R’Grad is a graduate student petitions (withdrawals, leave of absence, thesis exam, etc.) system. It contains flexible routing system for approval/denial and custom email creations.    · Developed a Travel Web-based System (iTravel)  o iTravel is a routed travel planning and expense reporting system and creates PeopleSoft journals for reimbursements to travelers.    · Developed a Course Request and Maintenance System (CRAMS)  o CRAMS is a routed approval/denial system that allows academic departments to establish and maintain course information with logic for prerequisites, renumbered, and cross-listed courses.    · Created Student Academic Querying System Web-based query tool (SDQS)         o SDQS that provides access to pre-defined reports as well as a query tool enabling users to report on wide variety of academic information.    · Developed a Financial query tool (UCRFS)  o UCRFS provides the ability for users to access general ledger financial and budgetary transactions for query and analysis. Users may query the data warehouse in detail mode or summary mode, including the option to "drill down" into the detail transactions that make up summary totals.    · Developed the Financial Forecasting Report System (ERS) using VBA  o ERS is a multi-spreadsheets Excel – based application for analyzing and forecasting financial data with the option of salary and non-salary projections, and produces customizable formatted summary and detail reports with all totals are formulas not static numbers. Data queried from PeopleSoft’s financial and budgetary transactions and payroll transactions.    · Coded an Academic Personnel Database Search Engine web application using ASP    · Created PeopleSoft financials and budgetary journal creation tool using VB    · Wrote PeopleSoft financials, budgetary, and staffing reports using SQR    · Implemented email notification program using a C++ Software Developer Business Engine Software Corporation - Ontario, CA March 1997 to November 1998 •      Generated and enhanced 2-tiered C++ client/server, multi-language enterprise resource planning applications with a SQL Server and Oracle backend database. Also, wrote Win32 API code for the graphical user interface.  •      Wrote Oracle SQL statements and developed ODBC source code.  •      Used COM knowledge to implement automation code for Microsoft Project 95/98.  •      Produced code utilizing Crystal Info and Crystal Reports API.   Software Engineer Universal Electronics, Inc - Anaheim, CA September 1996 to March 1997 •      Implemented and maintained 2-tiered C++ client/server remote control application with a Raima backend database.  •      Produced Raima database statements.  •      Designed, developed, and enhanced C++ tools that analyze signals from remote controls information. Education Bachelor's in University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside - Riverside, CA September 1990 to June 1995 Skills Javascript, XML, HTML, Java, Groovy, C++, C#, PHP, Angular, Jquery, Ext Js, CSS, Oracle SQL & PL/SQL, Grails, ASP.NET MVC, PostgresSQL, PL/pgSQL, Sql Server, React Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 8 Programmer January 2017 to Present Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 8 Programmer October 2015 to Present