Vice President of Engineering Vice President of Engineering Vice President of Engineering - IntelliCyt Albuquerque, NM s Proven ability to build the necessary processes and motivate talent to execute on complex technical project within  allocated time and budget constraints.    s Extremely effective at identifying and solving key company issues and driving continuous improvement within the  organization.    s Strong strategic and long-term planning skills to drive achievement of company goals.    s Over 22 years experience developing software and hardware products over a large gamut of industries from high-  performance mainstream 3D graphics software, bioinformatics and machine learning, web development, FPGA  synthesis tools, gamma radiation detection systems, and high-throughput flow cytometry systems for drug  discovery. Work Experience Vice President of Engineering IntelliCyt - Albuquerque, NM July 2014 to Present s Leading the software and hardware teams for next generation product development as well as supporting the current systems. This is includes extending our next generation data analysis tools including automatic population  analysis using a combination of dimension reduction, machine learning algorithms, and adaptive data subsampling.    s Responsible for leading the design, development and release to manufacturing of the iQue Plus Screening System, which drove sales growth 68% year over year.    s Responsible for leading the design, development and release to manufacturing of the iQue HD Screening System  capable of sampling volumes down to 5 microliters from 1536 well micro-plates with an accuracy +/- 100 microns.    s Responsible for leading the design, development and release to manufacturing of the iQue Screening System.    s Based on the strength of these screening system products and technology, helped grow company revenue 140x to over $14 million 2015 and the leader of the high-throughput flow cytometry market. Senior Director of Engineering May 2012 to July 2014 s Responsible for recruiting, hiring, training, performance evaluations and promotion of technical engineering staff.    s Response for creating and managing annual engineering budgets of $1.4 million to $2.5 million dollars.    s Leading company intellectual property growth targets of three filed patents and fifteen invention disclosures  completed per year. I am responsible for three filed patents, two of which has been granted with the third pending.    s Responsible for all major software releases including our industry leading ForeCyt data analysis software platform. Director of Engineering March 2010 to August 2012 s Lead the proposal to more fully integrate the HTFC system on the software side by taking over the OEM flow  cytometry software and moving that functionality including data acquisition into the HyperCyt software. This  substantially improved the productivity and ease of use of the HTFC system and leading to increased sales.    s Responsible for building the software and hardware development processes and engineering team at IntelliCyt:  establishing version control system, bug tracking, requirements, functional specification, project scheduling and resource estimation using decomposition and tracking with GANTT charts, language, and platform technology  selection. Manager of Software Development July 2007 to March 2010 s Lead Architect responsible for designing this next generation product based on the Windows platform, using C#  .NET 4.0 Framework, WinForms, and WCF for a distributed three-tier architecture with SQL server on the backend.  In addition to design, responsible for writing code to parse FCS files, scientific graphing, plate map data analysis  tool development, analyze and partition multiple sample runs into individual data files by well, maintain and support  existing IDL based product during production transition.    s Responsible for selecting, installing, and maintaining all web-based tools for issue tracking and test case  management. Developed internal tools to monitor and visualize bug count to fixed count ratios, features by category, individual team member issue activity using PHP, jQuery, Node.js, and Google graphing tools. Senior Software Developer, DOE Q Clearance Technadyne Engineering Consultants - Albuquerque, NM July 2004 to July 2007 Sandia National Laboratories -- s Megaports project at Karachi, Pakistan    Responsible for designing and implementing a security authentication system to control which users can create  container assessments. It consisted of creating a separate Administrator tool to define and update users, groups, and permission sets that are enforced by the MMS system.    s Second Line of Defense project at Pasir Panjang Terminal, Singapore:    Attended the IBM Websphere MQ System Administration Fast Start Plus training course and also completed the Java and MQ Series training course to become proficient in setting up and interfacing Websphere MQ with Java. I  was responsible for leading the design and development of a simulator for testing a fixed portal radiation detection  system at the Singapore Pasir Panjang terminal.    s Second Line of Defense project at Freeport, Bahamas:    Responsible for leading the requirements gathering, design, and development of a simulator for testing a new  straddle carrier scanning system for shipping containers at the Freeport, Bahamas shipping port. The system  simulates a Navis SPARCS system and its associated Oracle database for managing the location of the containers as well as a straddle carrier used to scan up to three stacked shipping containers per location. The straddle carrier  system is comprised of a GPS system, one TSA gamma radiation monitor and two Thermo Electron isotope  scanners per container level. The simulations include normal operating conditions and worst-case stress testing of the scanning system.    s Department of Homeland Security-Customs Border Program:    Developed two applications: one that scans the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory web server at regular  intervals for the latest customs radiation monitoring data and creates mirror of this data at a Sandia National  Laboratory server; the state of the data transfer is stored in a MS SQL database. The second application merges  this radiation monitoring data, in the form of Access database files, for a given site over a user-defined period of time for further analysis.    s IAEA Nuclear Material Monitoring Program:    Designed and developed a hierarchical site definition tool for the Material Monitoring System, using Visual Studio  .NET, GDI+, and MFC. This tool is used to design a variety of MMS sites ranging from static material monitoring Software Consultant traffic lanes - Omaha, NE November 2003 to January 2004 s Airline Traffic Manager - A multi-threaded C++/MFC airline traffic simulation application.    Developed a complete graphical system to display a North America map with three levels of zoom using a combination of a pre-rendered background elements with dynamic display elements.    Set up a multi-threaded architecture: one thread for the background engine and another for the GUI display, with semaphore macros to ensure data synchronization.    Developed a multi-window view of the airline traffic database within the MFC architecture; including event handling for all timer and user events. Senior Software Developer Naughty Dog, Inc - Santa Monica, CA April 2003 to September 2003 s Jak II for PS2  Tool development:    Enhanced the world level preprocessing tool to query the MySql database for LOD (level of detail) values in meters and the instance object location in world space to control when object pop-in and become visible on a game level.    Rewrote the multi-language text conversion tool to use Unicode for English, Spanish, French, German, Italian, Japanese, and Korean; this allowed for translators to entered in text directly with MS Word.    Developed a race mesh conversion tool from Maya to in-game data structure, for the Jak II racing elements.    Game Development:  Based on a design from SCEK, implemented a system for displaying over 2350 Korean characters by compositing  multiple jamos. Implemented the main on-screen menus, icons, and TRC logic for a seven language, multi-country  release.    Implemented all the graphical user interface elements including all title, load and save menus, game play  screenshots, and bonus content menus. Senior Software Developer Blueshift, Inc - Palo Alto, CA June 2002 to April 2003 s Sega World Series Baseball 2K3 for PS2    Created a custom VU assembly stadium renderer that dropped into the Renderware pipeline architecture.  Features include:  A triangle list to quad list object conversation tool that grouped, on average, 88% of the triangles into quads, which resulted in a 30% reduction of the memory footprint and required DMA bandwidth.  A per triangle pixel to texel ratio calculation for real-time mip-map selection with per texture mip-map level  caching and free backface culling to improve visual quality. The mip-map selection code was tied into a custom  texture compression library (1.5 to 2.5bbp).    Developed the PS2 memory card system: Analyzed the existing XBox hard drive/memory card system for WSB  2K2 and then simplified the over engineered XBox version and corrected inefficiencies masked by a fast hard drive  versus a slow memory card. I coordinated the use of the memory card system by the shell programming team, handled getting product ids, titles and icon data, and verifying TCR compliance with the Sony QA Tool.    Multistream sound integration: I researched all the available PS2 sound library options, looked at asynchronous file  access for streaming audio, the details needed for successful IOP module compilation and testing, and determining  the implicit load order of the IOP modules. I did the initial Multistream integration with the game code and Renderware libraries. Senior Software Engineer Synplicity, Inc - Sunnyvale, CA May 1999 to June 2002 s Managed the Certify 5.0.1 and Certify 6.0 software releases. This involved maintaining beta and production  schedules, daily regression failure tracking and resolution with multiple test suites of Verilog and VHDL designs, coordinating QA testing and bug tracking, and working with the product engineering group for product certification and packaging.    s Involved in the design and development of the Certify CPM feature: a time-division multiplexing FPGA partitioning  aid: back-end net qualification and front-end GUI.    s Development of chip-hop critical path timing analysis and the board creation wizard (user interface and file  generation).    s Investigated alternatives to using Mainsoft's Visual Mainwin libraries to port the windows MFC GUI to HP-UX, Solaris, and Linux platforms; which resulted in prototyping a portion of the application GUI in Java using  JFC/Swing. Software Engineer Nichimen Graphics - Marina del Rey, CA June 1996 to September 1996 s Technical lead of the team that designed and developed the Game Exchange 2.0 product. This cross-platform SDK  allows for content exchange from Mirai, Nendo, N-World, 3D Studio Max, to PC, PSX, and N64 platforms. At  Siggraph '98, Alias|Wavefront announced support for GE2 in their Maya product line.    s Designed and developed the scene database manager for Mirai: a high- end professional 3D animation package.    s Involved in assisting other teams with specific problems:  Windows GUI development with MFC, low-level 3D paint operations, OpenGL, DirectX, and Install shield  installation scripting.    s Design and development work for the Mirai software renderer. Software Engineer Seagate Software, Inc - San Luis Obispo, CA June 1995 to March 1996 s Programmed Winsock TCP/IP to implement IPC via RPC.  s Developed QA automation tools for Win95 platform product testing and analysis. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Engineering California Polytechnic State University - San Luis Obispo, CA December 1996 Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ Skills Problem-solving, CI, HTML5, C#, TCP Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/aaron-kennington-83036b Additional Information Key Strengths Leadership, analytical problem-solving and decision making, communication, initiative, technical expertise