Technical Manager Technical Manager Technical Manager - NIIT TECHNOLOGIES LTD Audubon, PA 17+ Years of software industry experience - including 8 years of leadership experience spanning across Software Development, DevOps, OnSite-OffShore Delivery Management, Team Leadership, IT Project Management including:    • Manage overall delivery of project including requirements gathering, design, build, integration, and testing  • Sophisticated software development and engineering skills with genuine enthusiasm for resolving business challenges through technical innovation.  • Expertly oversee mid-scale IT Projects, Networks and Infrastructures - from initial planning and development to implementation and enhancements.  • Proven leader adept at building and motivating diverse technical global teams to achieve outstanding results and complete projects on time and within budget.  • Combine technical expertise with strong business acumen and operational understanding to ensure all technical Strategies and activities along with corporate goals.  • Thro working knowledge of Waterfall and AGILE/SCRUM SDLC development methodology.  • Development and IT skills show proficiency in an assortment of both legacy and next-generation technologies, including, but not limited to:.NET frameworks, C#, ASP.NET, Web Services, SOAP, AngularJS, MS SQL Server, SSIS, SSRS, Crystal Reports, JavaScript/JQuery, SharePoint 2013, Data Analytics, AWS, Bitbucket, Azure Work Experience Technical Manager NIIT TECHNOLOGIES LTD - Atlanta, GA October 2010 to Present Hands-on" Technical Manager at the Technology Solutions Unit of SEI Investments. Responsibilities include providing necessary supervision and support to ensure quality adherence to application engineering mythologies, standards, leading practices, budgets, and project timelines.    Key Responsibilities  • Lead a development/engineering team with both local and remote resources and directly mentor them  • Work closely with Service Delivery Team and other project teams including IT architects, Operational Architects to ensure the solution is compatible and a long team fit for the company.  • Lead and participate in review sessions of business requirements, technical requirements, and design documents to ensure that software changes are understood to facilitate testing  • Meeting and improving established service delivery SLA's Team Lead / Sr. Developer Hands June 2006 to September 2010 on" software development Team Lead at the Technology Solution Unit of SEI. Internal responsibilities include career guidance and mentoring to mid- and senior-level developers through established career management program. Involved in and responsible for conducting year-end reviews with my sponsors as well as voting on raise and promotion decisions.    Key responsibilities  • Provide highly effective written and verbal communication to stakeholders, explaining the architectural alternatives for development projects and influencing them toward strategic solutions  • Coach and mentor other technical resources on the team, providing insights into the elements which influenced the recommended architectural approach  • Collaborate with production, product design, and quality assurance (QA) groups to ensure solutions are delivered effectively  • Continuous improving development processes    Recognition & Awards: Above & Beyond Achievement Award Sr. Developer/ Onsite Team Lead CHUBB & SONS, A DIVISION OF FEDERAL INSURANCE, CO - Hartford, CT June 2004 to June 2006 • Developed the basic framework for the new system, by creating the various application blocks.  • Manage a development team of 10 developers, who were responsible to implement and deliver the various application modules Sr. Developer BLACKBAUD - Charleston, SC September 2003 to April 2004 Core Responsibilities:  • Managed a development team of 4 developers who were responsible to code various critical modules of the application  • Designed a framework which was used to generate critical educational reports using VB 6.0, Crystal Reports and SQL 2000 Software Developer ELECTRONICS & RADAR DEVELOPMENT ESTABLISHMENT (LRDE) - DRDO - IN April 2003 to August 2003 Developed and designed a solution for Report Generation module (over 500 reports). The solution involved accepting report data in XML formats from web pages (JSP/ASP), providing facility for editing, viewing, print-preview and printing the reports. Software Developer CAC CORPORATION - TOKYO, JP February 2002 to March 2003 As an onsite developer created a solution framework for the Pensioner and Member modules of the software application used by the BANK. One of the core responsibilities included, designing the common framework, which was used by the offshore team for development and reduce their development efforts by at-least 20%. Software Developer NIIT TECHNOLOGIES LTD - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 1999 to January 2002 Played a key role in porting of eBillSpace (IPR based product) to .NET. Responsibilities included - creating the architecture, providing subject matter expertise to all the designers and developers on Microsoft .NET. TRAINER / DEVELOPER SATHYA SUDHA COMPUTERS (P) LTD September 1995 to July 1999 Provide training for software professionals on various technologies like C, C++, UNIX, VB and ASP, HTML. Windows OS. Education Masters of Business Administration in Finance DREXEL UNIVERSITY - LEBOW COLLEGE OF BUSINESS - Philadelphia, PA September 2016 Bachelor of Science in Electronics in Electronics KARNATAK UNIVERSITY June 1995