Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Pfizer Inc Chicago, IL • I have extensive 8+ experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements design, development, Integration, analysis, applications, maintenance and testing using Angular.js, React.js, Redux, Node.js and Java Technologies.  • Experience working on Frameworks like Bootstrap, Foundation, Angular.js, React.js, Node.js and Media Queries.  • Expertise in building Rich GUI websites confirming Web standards using Dojo Toolkit and hands on experience using PrototypeJs Framework API's and HTML5 Boilerplate  • Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC, MVVM Architectures, and event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, and XML.  • Extensively used a Variety of JavaScript frameworks and jQuery plugins from npm and Grunt and also created Plugins.  • Proficient with various IDE's like Eclipse, Android Studio, Notepad++ and Dreamweaver  • Experienced with Linux system administration, DevOps and AWS cloud platform.  • Experience with windows Azure to deploy the application on the cloud and manage the session.  • Experienced with UI manual/automated testing tools using Jasmine, Karma, Mocha and Protractor and code optimization SQL queries on databases like Oracle, SQL Server, and PostgreSQL also worked on NoSQL Database like MongoDB.  • Solid experience on JavaScript Frameworks like MVC/MVVM JavaScript frameworks and Exposure to Node.js (Node eclipse & Enide Tool Collections), jQuery UI, Kendo UI.  • Dealing with challenging High Traffic Websites and Cross Browser Issues handling.  • Extensive knowledge in developing applications in a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Angular Js, Pure CSS and Bootstrap.  • Good Web Application debugging skills using Chrome Developers Tool and Firebug.  • Experienced in client side design and validation using HTML and JavaScript.  • Experience in creating test suites using JASMINE and always participated in cross-browser and platform testing, QA and UAT testing and bug fixing.  • Experience in writing technical documents like Functional Requirement Document, Detail Design, Creating screen mock ups, Test Cases, Conducting Code/Peer Reviews, Testing (Unit and Integration), planning and leading training sessions.  • Worked in Agile Scrum projects and attended Daily Scrum meetings, User Story review meetings, Sprint Review and Retrospective meetings as part of Agile Methodology.  • Experience in using scrum tools JIRA Agile, Scrum works and bug tracking system - JIRA, Bugzilla.  • Experience of using browser debug tools like Safari Develop, firebug etc.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Extensively used build utilities like MAVEN, ANT for building of jar and war files.  • Experience in developing and implementing SOAP and RESTful Web Services using different Frameworks and connecting to Database.  • Experience in the use of various relational databases like Oracle, DB2, SQL Server and NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Extensively used build utilities like MAVEN, ANT for building of jar, war and ear files.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and presentation skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Pfizer Inc - Chicago, IL May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on full-stack development, with a focus on React, Redux on the front-end and nodejs on the back-end.  • Worked on Node.js Middleware framework like Express.js and Hapi.js and Yoemon, essentially developed Microservices and serve them through middleware. Served any Client side libraries through Microservice.  • Huge experience working on different Technologies used includes VueJS, HTML, SCSS, Cypress, Git, Tornado, Apollo-GraphQL, SQLAlchemy. Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using ES6. Worked on Server frameworks like Express.js, Socket.IO, Koa.js, Hapi JS.  • Created single-page applications using React and ES6, including a flashcard application and an Evernote clone.  • Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating Angular JS with Bootstrap and LESS CSS which is further integrated with Web Services.  • Created a crypto currency wallet and a blockchain based reward engagement platform built with React/Redux/Sagas, Node/Koa,  • Used backend frameworks Nodejs, Koa (Express), Sequelize ORM, GraphQL, MySQL Database and AWS Stack.  • Microservice API development using NodeJS, KOA, Docker, and Kubernetes.  • Developed single page applications using React Redux architecture, ES6, web pack and grunt.  • Used React JS to build encapsulated components that manage their own state, then compose them to make complex UIs. Used ES6 and JSX with react for component development.  • Worked on Angular with TypeScript and other latest client-side technologies including ReactJS, ES6, Gulp, NodeJS, RxJS, Angular CLI, Webpack, Karma and Jasmine.  • Used ES6, JSX with react for component development make react look more elegant  • Used Babel.js to transpile ES6 and JSX into JavaScript  • Very Strong in developing applications using Angular JS, HTML5, Bootstrap, Java Script, CSS3.  • Used Sencha Touch and EXT JS for the Mobile web interface development. Also used JSON and JQuery for Mobile application development .Worked with HTML 5 and CSS 3.  • Used Node.JS, React.JS, and Backbone.JS MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application (SPA). Backend development done using Node.js, Koa, Cassandra, and Redis.  • Implemented the Restful API using Sequelize.js with Node.js (hapi.js framework.  • Apollo model evolution Application using Node JS React / Redux/ Hapi Js on Oneops Cloud.  • Integrated Apollo client with GraphQL database for React and React Native for Payment, Dispatch services. Developed the backend by using Node.js, Express and MongoDB.  • Developed client websites in front end technologies such as SASS, Javascript, Gulp, Webpack, VueJS, React, GraphQL and Apollo.  • Developed Restful MicroServices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Created Typescript controllers for the different pages in the views using Typescript.ts.  • Configured typescript application through tsconfig file for various purposes like transpiling, debugging, tracing, generating separate folder for distributable etc.  • Used Express Framework to set up middleware to respond to the HTTP request with the help of Babel and developed the backend by Webpack.  • Used popular Node.js frameworks like Express and Restify to create a Restful Mock API  • Built backend REST API with Node.js, Express.js.  • Worked on developing CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, ReactJS and NodeJS) and REST based API.  • Developed REST Microservices which are like API's used for Home Automation. They also keep the data in synchronization between two database services.  • Configured auto scalable and highly available microservices set with monitoring and logging using AWS, Docker, Jenkins and Splunk.  • Used the Node Package Manager (NPM) to install libraries like angular-clip, typescript etc., which are required for developing an angular application in Node.  • Implemented Mock API using Express framework in Node.js.  • Database managemen (MySQL, PostgreSQL), project management and product development  (Github, Trello, Agile Project Management/Scrum).  • Experience in writing Automation code with FitNesse, Protractor.  • Implemented Backbone CRUD operations (Create, Read, Update and Delete) and Paginator for pagination for Tables. Used Promises to do AJAX call to connect front-end and back-end.  • Designed RESTful API plugin using Node.js, MongoDB, Mongoose ODM, and Express which optimized the code using Promises.  • Used JQuery for callbacks, promises and event based functions.  • Made extensive use of promises in AngularJS for application control flow.  • Used JQuery/JavaScript Promises for data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application.  • Used GIT as Version Control and iText to generate pdf in the form of a tree. Done unit testing using Test NG. Used GIT as version management, JIRA for defect management system.  • Worked closely with the User Experience (UX) team in determining the Content and Wireframes  • Developed the Cross- browser compatible and standard compliant applications  • Developed application using NodeJS for Asynchronous Module Definition (AMD) and Grunt as task manager. Developed the application using Eclipse IDE and worked under Agile Environment.  • Worked with J2EE packages such as DI, EJB, JPA, JDBS, JNDI, JMS and Restful web services  • Implemented the multi datacenter cluster consisting of Cassandra rings.    Environment:  UI/UX, HTML5, CSS3, koa.js, Express js, Hapi, Apollo, Promises, Microservices, ES6 , Typescript, JavaScript, Angular.js , bootstrap.js, backbone.js, React.js, Node.js, Oracle, PL/SQL, JDBC, Cassandra, REST, Protractor, Jasmine, Agile, MAVEN, Eclipse, Weblogic, Git, GitHub. Sr. UI Developer IBM - Philadelphia, PA November 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Researched future web technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, and Backbone.js etc. to develop new web applications.  • Extensively used Reactjs, D3.Js, under score.js, Node JS and lodash.js for JavaScript object and array manipulations.  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Developed a bulletin board module for supplier and vendor information portal. Application included forms to upload notification documents to the Supplier bulletin and maintenance of documents, complete with CRUD capabilities and email notifications.  • Worked on Node.js Middleware framework like Express.js and Hapi.js and Yoemon, essentially developed microservices and serve them through middleware. Served any Client side libraries through microservice.  • Used Saga Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End.  • Worked on Redux for state manipulations and Redux Saga to implement API requests asynchronously. Developed modules using Node JS and Promises.  • Implemented Angular best practices such as dependency injection, single-purpose modules, promises, and thin controllers to produce clean, efficient code.  • Extensively used promises In Angular JS for the application flow control.  • Designed SPAs (Single Page Applications) using Angular.JS concepts of Directives, Services, Promises, Templating, Scope, Dependency Injection and two-way data binding.  • Used ES6, AngularJS, ReactJS, Redux framework for binding, DOM models linking,view model underlaying data and behaviors.  • Worked with ECMA Script 6 features. For build of JSX and ES2015(ES6) used Babel, webpack.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Saga in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Extensively used Redux Sagas to manage side effects in React and Redux.  • Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle 10g to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables.  • Used Redux Thunk Middleware, in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Introduced redux-thunk and Immutable.js as additional libraries to support ReactJs application.  • Worked with Axios and Lodash libraries for Ajax calls and utility functions respectively.  • Involved in processing JSON data from RESTful web service by using Axios to get resources from the database and populated data on the UI and used Redux-Saga as middleware.  • Used Axios to fetch the data by consuming the Rest API.  • Implemented a POC to pick a state management tool between Redux and MobX.  • Used ReactJs and MobX for front end development.  • Used NextJs for server-side rendering for better performance and for SEO.  • Developed UI using ReactJs and Redux and NextJS.  • Worked with Lodash libraries for Ajax calls and utility functions respectively.  • Solved Callback hells in Node.JS by using Promises and Generators from ES6 resulting in unchaining of events and making the code efficient.  • Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested handling logic using jQuery event handlers and call back functions, es6.  • Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features using Express JS, Node JS and Firebase.  • Firebase was used as back-end database to save the data.  • Developed Angular modules, routers and services using typescript.  • Implemented mock backend, in Angular JS using Typescript for testing purposes.  • Implement new Front-End features with Typescript/ JavaScript and other RESTful APIs.  • Used React Router Redux to store the route parameters in the redux store.  • Utilized Bootstrap and to develop a reactive website from a static JavaScript, Node JS, Bootstrap, Semantic UI,RESTful API, jQuery existing code base.  • Developed semantic markups and Wireframe development.  • Developed portions of HTML5-based game for use in an online gambling promotion.  • To manipulate the data type and handle multiple actions, uses Redux-Thunk as middleware.  • The Redux-Thunk middleware was used with the Redux store to retrieve contract data via a RESTful API implemented on the backend in Node.js and MongoDB. All development was done on MacOS and the source code was managed via GIT.  • Used EcmaScript, ReactJS, Flux, Babel, Node and Web-Pack to create a SPA.  • Used Babel, web pack and react JSX presets.  • Created Directives, Services, Filters using Angular.js with Typescript.ts.  • Worked with type definition files using Typescript.ts.  • Used webpack to make the development environment better.  • Used Node.js to run Webpack tasks and build properly the project.  • Worked with Grunt and used plugins - uglify, concat, replace, eslint, jslint, sprite.  • worked with regression testing using Jslint and Selenium.  • Designing, Coding (development) and Debugging application using Eclipse Indigo as an IDE, Spring JDBC framework and DAO pattern, HTML5, CSS3, and JQuery.  • Used AngularJS Dependency Injection (DI) to inject Angular Services and Custom Services, as well as built custom Directives to provide reusable component.  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client side validations using Java Script.  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application. Good knowledge in Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  • Configure MONGODB Sharded cluster with Replica Set (HA) on Different AWS regions.  • Developed various reusable helper and utility classes using Java Beans with Eclipse editor.  • Designed, developed and tested the Websphere Portal Application based on Model, View, Controller (MVC) architecture deployed on IBM Web Sphere Portal /Application Server.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Implemented Java Script validation frame work for client side & server side.  • Used React flux to polish the data and for single directional flow.  • Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Macromedia/Adobe Flex.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, React.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular.js, bootstrap.js, JQuery, Spring, Hibernate, DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, MongoDB, Junit, Jasmine, scrum, UML, MAVEN, JIRA, , soap, web services, Eclipse, Websphere portal, Websphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD), Subversion (SVN). Sr. UI/UX Developer Amazon - Dallas, TX November 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implemented View layer of MVC architecture using JSF components.  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in Web Sphere server.  • Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  • Developed J2EE components using Netbeans as IDE.  • Developed ANT scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server.  • Work with continuous integration and version control via git, mercurial, and Jenkins  • Implemented Selenium IDE with java script for Web apps.  • Designed Use Cases using UML and managed the entire functional requirements life cycle using water fall model.  • Developed complex Web based UI using Struts, Ajax and Java Script.  • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Developed the user interface screens using Swing for accepting various system inputs such as contractual terms, monthly data pertaining to production, inventory and transportation.  • Implemented complex Row Level Security in the FM and Implemented Cognos Security folders, user groups and roles.  • Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle.  • Established ANT and scripts for build activities MAVEN in QA, Staging and Production environments.  • Developed order receipt report with bar code using lowage iText and jasper report.  • Defined as-is-architecture, transitional architecture, and recommended future-state architecture related to Search technologies including Google GSA, Endeca, and EMC Documentum ECI.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit.  • Analyzed and resolved production system problems tracked with Rational ClearQuest and JIRA  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.    Environment:  HTML, CSS, SERVLET, Spring, IBatis, Struts, Jboss, Mercurial, Clearcase, Salenium, , ANT, Xml, ITEXT, SWING, Cognos, Jasper Report, UML, JSP, JQuery, AJAX, DOJO, Ext.JS, JSF, EJB, MYSQL, Toad, SQL server, DB2, Coherence, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, Netbeans. Sr. UI/UX Developer Sanofi - Columbus, OH May 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed the web application in MVC Architecture using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript, JQuery, Angular.JS  • Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the website using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Created detailed wireframes & process flows.  • Interacted with the system analyst to understand the business requirement before translating into nonfunctional HTML pages.  • Worked on JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, JSON, JQuery, XHTML, CSS in ATG Linux environment  • Used JQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web page.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Designed and Developed Web application using CSS PreProcessor SASS ,LESS.  • Developed web page using AngularJS components like controllers, routers, NG app etc.  • Developed server side JavaScript using Node JS.  • Used Node package manager for package modules.  • Used grunt for managing UI module dependencies.  • Developed unit tests using jasmine and executed them using karma test build  • Used Bugzilla as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Developed rich user interfaces using Kendo (Telerik) controls.  • Developed ASPX pages that are cross browser compatible across the browser like Internet Explorer versions 7 through 11, Edge, Mozilla Firefox, Safari (Win and Lion OS X).  • Used Angular.js to structure Javascript code in an MVC (Model, View, Controller).  • Designed, created and implemented custom Interwoven Team Site modifications to fully automate activities as publishing, deploying, and updating online content (HTML, JavaScript).  • Responsible for design and development of the Customer Relations Module.  • Wrote various methods to manipulate HTML, CSS in jQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Used Bootstrap grid system for responsiveness.  • Implemented various JavaScript/JQuery UI effects on the pages.  • Installed and Managed Grunt using NPM.  • Implemented the Bower to manage the front end components like html,css,javascript  • Used grunt to create project structure.    Environment:  Eclipse IDE, Angular JS, Bootstrap,kendo UI, AJAX, karma, JUnit, JIRA, JSP, HTML, CSS, SASS, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, IBM websphere,SVN, Javascript, Restful web-services. Software Engineer United Parcel Service - Raleigh, NC May 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Utilized various JavaScript and JS libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Worked with Object Oriented programming concepts such as inheritance  • Developed various modules present in the portal such as, Admin, User, Job Folder  • Used JQuery to make HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages.  • Written CSS to provide table free layout to user interface screen.  • Extensively used Angular UI components (Angular Bootstrap) for ng-grid and UI components.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens and used DHTML to make drop-down menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Used Robot framework to be testing all different kind of Mobile Applications.Developed the UI with extensive use of JSON, and Java Script.Build and Test all Mobile Applications for Android and IOS.  • Involved in writing application level code using APIs, and Web Services using JSON.  • Used APIs like Alk Maps for developed route search for truck drivers between start and end locations.  • Extensively using Bootstrap for layout as well as responsive design and CSS for Responsive design.  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, IE developer toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Implemented presentation tier using HTML, CSS by utilizing the mockups that were created by design team.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Implemented interaction between frontend and backend using the JSON object.  • Wrote Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer and Firefox.    Environment:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, Tomcat, Apache. Dreamweaver, DOM, MVC, bootstrap, Agile, SQL Server. Software Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA May 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed form authentication web applications for authentication of the user.  • Involved with testing team to perform Unit Testing and Compliance Testing to resolve the issues.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.  • Responsible for the Design and development of the Deals and maintenance and Report modules.  • Used advanced level of HTML, XML, AJAX, ActiveX Controls, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts.  • Developed web pages applying best standards.  • Developed Ant script to automate the process of build and deployment.  • Used SOAP Web Service and deployed applications on Apache Tomcat serve  • Developed User- Interface screens involving Servlets, JSP, JavaScript and XML DOM parser.  • Designed and developed JSP pages using Struts framework.  • Created Common files, global messages for the common usage.  • Involved in designing architecture following J2EE MVC framework.  • Applied industry best practices and standards to meet project requirements.  • Managed time effectively with minimal supervision to accurately scope projects and ensure that projects release on-time.  • Designed and developed AJAX calls to populate screens parts on demand  • Identified opportunities for process improvements/efficiencies and drive adoption of high priority/high value improvements within the team    Environment:  HTML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Struts, JavaScript, Servlets, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, SVN, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, JMS, XML, SOAP, MVC Framework. Education Master of Science and Engineering in Science and Engineering University Of Florida Skills Front End, UI, Javascript, React, Front-End