Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Bloomberg L.P Harrison, NJ Work Experience Senior Software Developer Bloomberg L.P January 2014 to Present Design, develop and deploy the infrastructure and applications to manage identity and access control, security and audit  of Bloomberg's infrastructure with an efficient and scalable system design.  • Working on Identity and Access management infrastructure, developing SSO solutions using  authentication/authorization protocols like SAML2, OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect.  • Working on maintaining and improving high availability, reliability and performance of developed distributed applications.  • Used Python/Django, Java, SAML2, OAuth 2.0/OpenID Connect, IAM, SQL, Linux, Celery, RabbitMQ, LDAP, Git and Cryptography for Development. Software Development Engineer II Cisco Systems January 2012 to January 2014 • Worked on Web application for managing Network security Firewall and Intrusion prevention systems.  • Designed, documented and developed security-related features on the front end and back end  • Interacted with various cross-functional groups such as usability, product management, QA and documentation.  • Used Python/Django, SQLite, Linux, Perforce and Review Board for Development. Developer Intern Mitel Networks May 2010 to August 2010 • Introduced Java API based Web Services architecture into Audio Web Conferencing product in version 3.9.  • This Web Services Consumer Application will be used by internal applications like Unified Communicator Advanced to make use of services offered by AWC to start instant meetings, add parties to meetings, alter the conference type, and  end the conferences.  • Used J2EE, AXIS2 tool, Apache Tomcat, WSDL, XML and SOAP Protocol for development. Technical Developer Accenture Services Pvt Ltd June 2007 to June 2009 • Worked on Oracle Applications for Diamond clients of Accenture, such as AT&T and Bestbuy.  • Worked extensively on Database conversion projects, Inbound & Outbound interfaces and creating shell scripts for scheduling the interfaces.  • Used Java, Oracle PL/SQL, SQL, Oracle 11i eBusiness Suite, UNIX Shell Scripting and Oracle Forms and Reports. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ August 2009 to December 2011 Bachelor of Technology in Chemical Engineering in Chemical Engineering National Institute of Technology - Warangal, Telangana August 2003 to May 2007 Skills DJANGO, Git, PYTHON, SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT, CRYPTOGRAPHY, OPENID, JAVA, SQL, LINUX, LDAP, Spring, Javascript, Golang Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/chaitanyaachanta