Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Tivo Tulsa, OK Masters in Software Development and Information Technology with around 12 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Web and Window based applications. Complete life cycle (SDLC) experience of a product involved in System Analysis, Architecture, Technical design, development, testing, deployment & support medium to large scale business applications using Agile Scrum and iterative development methodologies.    Expertise in  * More than 12 years of diverse full stack experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP), in all phases of software analysis, design, development ,production support and deploying N-tier web applications, client / server applications using ASP.NET4.5/5, MVC4/5, C#, Web Services, Web API, jQuery, JSON, JavaScript and SQL Server 2017/ 2012,SSIS,SSRS, Visual Studio 2010/2012/2015/2017, XML. JQuery, AJAX, VB, Java Script, ASP,VB,XML and Oracle  * Having 10 + years of experience on .Net production support and development.  * Having 1 year of experience in AWS (Amazon Web Services) ,EC2, RDS, S3, Cloud watch and Docker and Athena.  * Experience in writing queries, Indexes, triggers, views, functions, stored procedures in Transact  * Hands on experience on various SQL Server Services like Integration Services (SSIS), and Reporting Services (SSRS).  * Hands on Experience in Installing, Configuring, Managing, monitoring and troubleshooting SQL Server 2017/2012/2008/2005/2000.  * Having good knowledge on ITIL process. Extensively worked with Incident process, Change Management and Release management.  * Experience in developing N-Tier Architecture using Data Access Layer (DAL), Business Logic Layer (BLL) and User interface (UI), Model View Controller (MVC).  * SQLand PL/SQL using SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012 , Oracle 11g/10g/9i.  * Developed WebAPI to Salesforce using HttpCall and designed GET, POST, PUT, DELETE  * Developed WebAPI to GOOGLE API using HttpCall and designed GET, POST, PUT, DELETE  * Having 10 years in deploying applications in IIS 6.0/7.0/7.5 and 8.0  * Used GIT as a Code Repository and followed source code handling practices like Check-In daily basis  * Experience with Amazon web services or equivalent cloud computing approaches  * Having rich domain Knowledge in Oil and Gas industry and as well as hospitality domain  * Experience in Multi-tier Architecture development and Telerik Tools.  * . NET: Expertise in VS.NET 2017/2012/ 2008/2005/2000 and Extensive Experience in development of cutting - edge Enterprise Application in ASP.NET, Windows Forms, and Windows Services since 2003  * Experience UML, Web Services, SOA, XML, XSD, XSLT, XPATH and Design Patterns like Singleton pattern and MVC etc.  * Expertise in developing applications with Legacy ASP/VB  * Experience with distributed systems and Hadoop clusters  * Experience in developing, monitoring, extracting and transforming data using DTS/SSIS, Import Export Wizard, and Bulk Insert.  * Expertise in converting Applications From Legacy ASP/ASP.Net 1.1 to .Net 4.0  * Having Good knowledge with Integrating .net code with NAESB EDI  * Converted Legacy Main Frame scheduled jobs to .net windows service jobs.  * Expertise in integrating payment gateway like PayPal  * Embraced Agile Scrum methodology into daily practice. Produced top quality and easy maintainable codes.  * Experience UML, Web Services, WCF Services, SOA, XML, XSD, XSLT, XPATH and Design Patterns like Singleton pattern and MVC etc.  * Having Good Knowledge in Service now and BMC remedy ticketing tool management  * Expert in designing the solutions and preparing the design documents using UML and Visio  * Strong analytical, problem solving skills, self-starter with a track record of accomplishments  * Having 3 yrs. of experience As a Team Lead for developing web applications  * Communication, coordination, interpersonal & leadership skills with business-centered mind-set to positively contribute to overall organizational performance  * Worked on Transformation of Legacy Application to Service based Applications  * Development and Unit Testing: Developing the product as per customer's requirement. Performing Unit test on the developed code  * Performing Code review and Analyzing the root cause of the issues and fixing in Issue Management  * Having experience in developing applications for Ecommerce applications domains  * Expertise in end to end Product Development.  * Expertise in Test-driven development (TDD) methodology using N-UNIT Testing. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Tivo - Tulsa, OK July 2016 to Present Tivo formerly Rovi corp allows advertisers to extend their campaigns to the Interactive Program Guide, reaching millions of TV households worldwide with advanced display and video ads that appear as content choices. Consumers are spending more time with more media, across devices. With fragmented TV viewing and so many content options, it takes more time for consumers to find something to watch than ever before. Tivo Advertising is uniquely positioned to reach consumers as they look for content and capture their attention as they make entertainment choices.    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in developing web applications using MVC, C#, ADO.NET Entity Framework and Visual Studio.Net 2017.  • Extensively Worked on SSIS packages  • Created reports in SSRS with different type of properties like chart controls, filters, Interactive Sorting, SQL parameters etc.  • Developed WebAPI to Salesforce using HttpCall and designed GET, POST, PUT, DELETE  • Developed WebAPI to GOOGLE API using HttpCall and designed GET, POST, PUT, DELETE  • Migrating Applicationsfrom .Net 2.0 to 4.0 and Sql databases from 2008 to 2012  • Data retrieval and manipulation using ADO.NET data objects and ADO.NET Entity Framework.  • Take ownership of technical solution from the design and architecture through development  • Performed unit testing and bug fixing  • Experience with Amazon web services or equivalent cloud computing approaches  • Used GIT as a Code Repository and followed source code handling practices like Check-In daily basis  • Used ADO.NET classes extensively. Also used datasets for binding data to UI controls  • Used Resource files to implement multilingual feature  • Involved in Code Review to improve application performance.  • Experience with distributed systems and Hadoop clusters Senior Software Engineer(Production Support) Williams - Tulsa, OK March 2014 to July 2016 Wipro Ltd (NYSE:WIT) is a global information technology, consulting and outsourcing company with 170,000+ workforce serving clients in 175+ cities across 6 continents. Wipro helps customers do business better by leveraging our industry-wide experience, deep technology expertise, comprehensive portfolio of services and vertically aligned business model. As part of wipro I worked on major domains like Oil and Gas and Banking sector.    Responsibilities:  • Supported on Web and windows applications.  • Worked on incident,Change and problem management  • Worked on SSIS packages  • Defined and Designed data base in Oracle 11g  • Created Tables and Stored Procedures, Sequences and Functions in Oracle 11g to communicate with application  • Created Data access layer as a Commute layer between application and database  • Used MVC Razor view for dynamic rendering  • Implemented UI validations using Java Script, Ajax calls and Models  • Authentication validated against Active Directory users  • Experience with Amazon web services or equivalent cloud computing approaches  • Used CSS to implement various styles for Grid View and all other controls  • Designed some of the UI screens for this module using HTML5, JavaScript  • Used JQuery calendar, Alert and Model windows for Workflow creation.  • Created classes for the Caching and Helper class for security mechanism  • Developed various partial views to display data in web forms.  • Implemented Session time out  • Validate Business requirements and initiated process  • Data retrieval and manipulation using ADO.NET data objects and ADO.NET Entity Framework.  • Used Enterprise library 5.0 for exception handling  • Take ownership of technical solution from the design and architecture through development  • Performed unit testing and bug fixing  • Used TFS as a Code Repository and followed source code handling practices like Check-In daily basis  • Used ADO.NET classes extensively. Also used datasets for binding data to UI controls  • Used Resource files to implement multilingual feature  • Involved in Code Review to improve application performance.  • Deployed application in IIS 7.0 in different environments like QA and Production    Environment: ASP.NET 4.0 with VB.NET, JQuery, JSON,Razor view, Enterprise Library 5.0, Entity Framework, Web Forms, GUI, XML, Visual Studio 2012, IIS 7.0 and Oracle 11 g. DEVELOPER - L3 Wipro LTD August 2011 to March 2014 Location: - India  Client:- BP    Wipro Ltd (NYSE:WIT) is a global information technology, consulting and outsourcing company with 170,000+ workforce serving clients in 175+ cities across 6 continents. Wipro helps customers do business better by leveraging our industry-wide experience, deep technology expertise, comprehensive portfolio of services and vertically aligned business model. As part of wipro I worked on major domains like Oil and Gas and Banking sector.    Responsibilities:  • Defined process for approval mechanism.  • Developed Windows services and Task Schedulers in .net code  • Implemented well-structured 3-Tier Asp.Net web application using Data access, Business logic and Presentation layers to track all the Windows services and Jobs which are converted from Main frame.  • Worked on Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet timelines with quality deliverables  • Designed and developed GUI with web forms using ASP.NET Controls, AJAX, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Made use of Microsoft AJAX extensions such as script manager and update panel to make an asynchronous call to retrieve data and update client-side HTML fields for rich user experience.  • Assisted in physical and logical database design.  • Designed SQL database schema, stored procedures, user defined functions, views and triggers.  • Uploaded the reusable components which will be used by other team members.  • Implemented user reentry using user session and application page objects to implement deferred session state which was built to store and retrieve session information of user.  • Developed Custom user, server and validation controls using Vb.Net.  • Used .Net server controls, web user controls, data grid control, form validation control, custom control.  • Used rich custom web controls to provide for better user experience.  • Used grid view control, details view Control, form view Control, Repeater and data list control to display and enable data manipulation at the interface level.  • Efficiently used object oriented programming to achieve the functionality for the application.  • Prepared the unit test specifications and test cases.  • Created prototypes for client engagements.  • Used VSS for Code Repository and followed source code handling practices like Check-In and Check-Out on daily basis  • Involved in Code Review to improve application performance.  • Prepared weekly status reports /monthly status reports code review.  • Resolved performance issues, fine-tuned queries, indexes and stored procedures.  • Designed, coded, tested applications identified system deficiencies and recommended solutions.  • Created Tables and Stored Procedures, Sequences and Functions in Oracle 11g to communicate with application  • Used ODP .Net as a provider for Oracle  • Used Entity Framework 5 for database communication  • Created package to handle multiple transactions in oracle  • Implemented UI validations using Java Script, Ajax calls and Models Software Engineer Alliance Prosys November 2010 to August 2011 Location: - India  Alliance Prosys India Private Limited offers information technology infrastructure management and software quality assurance services. The company provides facility management, technical support, product engineering, and database administration services. Additionally, it offers new applications development, help desk, data center support, operating system support, applications software support, vendor management, and software implementation and license tracking services. The company also provides server, application, programmatic, and database administration services. It has strategic alliances with Microsoft, Adobe, Sun Microsystems, and Fortinet    Responsibilities:  • Implemented well-structured 3-Tier Asp.Net web application using Data access, Business logic and  • Presentation layers to track all the Windows services and Jobs which are converted from Main frame.  • Worked on Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Main contact for the Business Users for development of new requirements proposed as a part of the application development  • Analyzed, designed and developed this web application.  • Developed several reusable components using C#.NET and used some validation controls.  • Prepared test cases for applications and performed Unit testing for applications.  • Followed 3-Tier Architecture development.  • Used Resource files to implement multilingual feature  • Involved in writing database scripts like SQL queries, Stored Procedures and functions.  • Used ADO.NET classes extensively. Also used datasets for binding data to UI controls.  • Responsible for Coding and Bug fixing.  • Implemented Java Script for Client Side Validations.    Environment: NET Framework 2.0, Vb.net, HTML, CSS, JQuery , DHTML, Visual Studio 2008, Web Services, , MS Visual SourceSafe, XML, XHTML, XSLT, MS VISIO(UML), , SQL Server Integration Services 2008, SQL Server Reporting Services 2008. Software Programmer Gold Crest Software June 2007 to November 2010 Location: - India    Gold Crest Software is software company which develops Hotel Portals, which offers direct and easy access to a range of hotels. It also enables organizations to endorse timely and informed customer interactions, acquiring vital states on customer needs & trends for launching new schemes, increase customer satisfaction, and build strong and lasting relationships it provides Customers to view and search hotels all over the world with an easy and user friendly interface and can make hotel rooms reservation with a few clicks. It provides Hotelier (Hotel Owner) to register his hotel with SR and provides separate environment to manage his business. It has features to generate Invoices, Automatic Emails to Vendors and Customers.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in Requirements Collection, Design, Analysis, Development and Customization of the Application Care plus.  • Designed and implemented application using .NET Framework 2.0  • Involved in development of UI (User Interface) Pages using the HTML, Master Pages & ASP.NET.  • Worked with ASP.NET Web Forms, Web Services, and State Management, Caching features, configuring optimizations and securing the web application.  • Developed Front End using ASP.Net Web application & AJAX and Code behind files using C#. Net.  • Developed the User controls and Custom controls to support the Front-end of the application.  • Developed Functional & Data Access Classes for all Web user Controls.  • Implemented input validation using the ASP.NET Input Validation Controls.  • Developed Java script code for client side validations.  • Extensively used AJAX Control tool kit and AJAX libraries for providing light weight AJAX requests  • Created Cascading style sheets (CSS) to attain uniformity through all pages  • Used ADO.net extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage, manipulation and for achieving disconnected database connectivity.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers in  • SQL Server 2005.  • Developed Web Service for retrieving product data (based on XML, WSDL, and SOAP)  • Created Service Oriented Architecture SOA for both Windows forms and Web forms applications for linking business and resources on demand to achieve the desired results for service consumers.  • Regular production support of the application. Interact with end users as part of support.  • Worked with User controls, Web controls, List controls, Wizard controls, Master Pages, Data controls in ASP.NET for the front-end forms.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Generated reports using SSRS  • Assisted in quality assurance measures such as code reviews, test case creation and unit testing for different modules    Environment: -ASP.NET 2.0, C#, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DHTML, Visual Studio 2005, SQL Server 2005, T-SQL, IIS , Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, XML, AJAX, Silver Light 2.0, MS Visual SourceSafe , .NET Framework 2.0, XML, XHTML, XSLT, MS VISIO(UML). Skills Ado, Access 2000, Ms access, Ms access 2000, Ado.net, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2005, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Oracle, Sql, Visual studio, Amazon web services, C#, C++, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Wcf Additional Information Software Development Skills    Languages VB.NET ,C# 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0, VB, C and C++  Web Technologies  Visual Studio 2005,2008,2010,2012, WCF, ASP.NET, ASP ,MVC, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, AJAX ,Web Services, SOAP and ADO.NET,Entity Framework,SSIS, , AWS (Amazon Web Services) ,EC2, RDS, S3, Cloud watch and Docker    Web Servers IIS6.0, IIS 7.0, IIS 8.0  Databases MS SQL Server 2005/ 2008, 2010 PLSQL, Oracle 11g/10g/9i and MS Access 2000  Operating Systems Windows 9x/XP/NT/2000/2003/Windos7 & Windows8 Servers  Version Controls GIT,Visual Source Safe, Visual team foundation server and SVN  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, Active Reports,SSRS  External Vendor Tools Support OMNIRIM, Honeywell Prowatch, Honeywell Rapid Eye, Enterprise Survey Tool, Cardiolog, Easy Lobby.