Net Developer Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Net Developer - Society Generale Bank New York, NY • Have8years of professional experience in Microsoft Technologies as a full stack developer.  • Strong experience in core technologies of .NET Framework, C#, LINQ, Asp.net, MVC, Web API, WCF, IIS 6.0, 7.0, XML, Enterprise Library, Entity Frameworkand well versed with database design like MS-SQL Server 2008/2012.  • Involved in all phases of software development lifecycle viz., requirement analysis, designing, coding, testing, implementation, project coordination and client interaction.  • Strong experience in large-scale SOA implementations. Experience with development and deployment of Web Services (SOAP, UDDI and WSDL) using WCF.  • In depth knowledge of developing applications using ASP.NET, MVC with CSS, C#, JQuery, LINQ, WCF services.  • Good knowledge of front end technologies like Angular JS.  • Perform data access and manipulation with ADO.NET, ODP.NET, LINQ and Entity Framework.  • Responsible for hosting websites in IIS, website health check and administration,installing windows services.  • Expert in designing/ creating Tables, Views, Triggers, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, TSQL DDL/DML and other T- SQL statements for various applications.  • Expert in developing interactive dashboards in different analytic tools for the key performance indicators.  • Extensively used JIRA and QCfor Project Tracking and Version controls like Visual Source Safe (VSS), Team Foundation Server (TFS), and Software Change Management (SCM).  • Experience in documentation of project works like design documents,TDD, SRS, test cases, root-cause analysis.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting issues, root-cause analysis and solution development.  • Extensively performed the unit testing and load testing using SOAP UI to ensure Quality of the software.  • Provide post-implementation, application enhancement and maintenance support to the client.  • Participated in the Technical sessions in the organization to upgrade technical skills.  • Reporting experience using SSRS.  • Basic knowledge in Microsoft Office SharePoint Server 2010.  • Worked in Agile/SCRUM environment and Kanban.  • Ability to work in-group as well as independently with minimal Supervision. Work Experience Net Developer Society Generale Bank - New York, NY January 2017 to Present Project: Alpha  Alpha is Societe Generale's trading platform for e-trading, giving you instant access to an integrated multi-equity execution, pricing, quotes, fx, pre-trade and post-trade solution. It is an award-winning platform dedicated to providing you with Societe Generale's strengths in liquidity, financial engineering, treasury, research and emerging markets.    Alpha is a powerful tool, delivering a secure, fast and efficient FIX messages transportation. It aims at giving you a state-of-the-art trading experience enhanced with on-going updates and development of tradable products and asset classes. The platform provides access to    * Foreign Exchange  * Equities  * Indices  * Money Markets  * Structured Products    Responsibilities:  • Design and Developed Web forms using C#, MVC, Web API.  • Develop UI screens using CSS and HTML5  • Created multi-tier business objects using C#  • Developed reusable and optimized .Net Components  • Access Layer Developed using ADO.Net and OData  • Security using OAuth2  • Created batch processors to process and generate files using .NET technology while pulling data from T-SQL  • Developed windows services for log files archival  • Better logging using log4Net  • Client and server side validations are done using JavaScript and fluent validation.  • Used WCF for developing and deploying services on Windows in line with the Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  • Used LINQ to build set of operations, parameters and expressions (Binary, Unary, Lambda) during execution (aimed at "Querying") a set of data from SQL Server  • Involved in Creating tables and writing Stored Procedures required by solution  • Involved in code management activities using Rational Remote Client.  • Developed n-tier objects such as Business, Data Access, Application layers  • Involved in the Unit Testing of all the modules and System Testing for some of the modules.  • Responsible for various admin task like deploying the pages and components to the production server, tuning IIS and SQL server, deploying reports to reports server.  • Used AJAX to club multiple page information into one.  • Experience in using AngularJS, ability to test views and able to do end to end unit testing. Also, using continuous integration.  • Developed ADO.NET based database access layer against SQL Server. Used Dataset, Date Reader, and Data Adaptors.  • Peer-to-Peer code review, presentations, co-ordination and knowledge transfer    Environment:  .Net Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2010, C# 4.0, ASP.NET 4.0, VB.net , HTML5 , CSS, Java Script, JQuery, MVC 3.0, Razor, AngularJS, XML, HTML5, XML, Web Services, PL/SQL Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server 2008, SSRS, AJAX, Bootstrap, MS Visio Extensions, N-unit Net Developer State of Vermont - Montpelier, VT October 2014 to December 2016 Project:  State of Vermont designed a Web application provided to the users, who maintain the project information. This contains project cost, budget, milestone information, Gray note book information and comments about the project by different set of people. This application contains different datasets for every quarter; user can change the dataset and look at the particular biennium's quarter details.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in project planning sessions with project managers, business analysts and Team members to analyze business requirements and outline the proposed solution.  • Created WCF web services that get data from different systems.  • Created the web application using the entity framework.  • Used CSS and ASP.Net for designing the web pages, Mater pages and user controls.  • Used JavaScript and JQuery to handle various validations and client side events.  • Designed and Implemented the Data Access Layer, Data Business Layer and Presentation Layer for the application.  • Created User Controls for re-usability and consistent look and feel.  • Generate emergency fixes to meet requirements change, and push application scripts through various stages of testing till production.  • Responsible for logging defects in Jira and notifying it to team members and Project Managers, monitoring their status and tracking them to closure.  • Implemented singleton design patternfor maintaining the global application data.  • Designed the Data Access Layer, Data Business Layer and Presentation Layer for the application to store the data inside the SQL Server.  • Designed and Created Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions and other T- SQL statements in the database for the data storage and retrieval.    Environment:  Visual studio 2012, C#, ASP.net, IIS, SQL Server 2012, HTML, JQuery, CSS, Oracle11g, TFS and JIRA Net Developer Humana Health Insurance - Dallas, TX August 2012 to September 2014 Employee Portal - This project will provide a secured portal where a TWM policy owner can log on securely to access their policy information and make certain requests for information and changes using the data that is available in TWM's BRASS system today. A Marketing approved user interface (UI) will be created so users can easily navigate their way around the portal.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the existing system architecture and functionality.  • Went through the total project development life cycle and have a clear understanding of various tiers as the project was a multi-tier application.  • Coordinated with various groups of the client to gather business and system requirements.  • Manage the back-end connection to Microsoft SQL as the data source using ADO.Net and write SQL queries, stored procedures and triggers to manage data.  • Involved in application design based on MVC 3, Factory Design Pattern and OOPS. Active Developer of the core developing Team for the Banking Software using C#.Net, SQL Server with MVC Pattern.  • Developed DAL using ADO.NET Entity Framework, invoked DB tables and stored proceduresUtilized Entity Framework technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ Statements, views, User Defined Functions, Stored Procedures for inserting/updating/Deleting the data into the relational tables.  • Developed Web Service for retrieving Employee Data (based on XML, WSDL, and SOAP)  • Designed WCF the front end using XAML Browser WPF for Rich UI.  • Worked extensively on the UI, created views by utilizing MVC3, and created view models.  • Consumed Web Services using WCF for online transactions using C# and exposed them through SOAP and HTTP.  • Generated Crystal Reports for Job Allocation Purpose.  • Created T-SQL Store Procedures, Views and User Defined Functions for fetching relevant data to UI for different VP Reports and Divisional Reports.  • Created Integration Test cases and NUnit test cases for Testing the System.  • Used VSS for version control during development.  • Have done data model principles, fit-gap analysis, prototyping, development, implementation, maintenance and support during the product design and development.    Environment:  C#, ASP.Net 3.5, MVC 3.0, ADO.NET, WCF, LINQ, UML, SQL Server 2005, T-SQL, SOA, Crystal Reports, SSRS, SSIS, XAML, XSLT, N-unit testing, Visual Studio 2008, Win2003. Web Developer SallieMae - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2011 to August 2012 Project: Enterprise Integration Layer  Enterprise Services Integration Layer (EIL) is a distributed applications, exposes WCF services to the client apps to submit/receive servicing information to mainframe and other .net applications i.e., CLASS/ OpSys, FDR (First Data). Enterprise Integration Layer (EIL) has two layers (IL and OpSys) to retrieve information from two different sources i.e., mainframe services and oracle. IL layer acts as intermediate Business layer which is exposed to client. OpSys layer acts a database layer as well as business layer. The business logic differs; based on the calling system the business logic is chosen. The data passed and retrieved are through xml which makes it easier to connect to different systems like mainframe and WCF service.    Responsibilities:  • Developed a new framework for the existing services to process the input as XDocument, XStream objects instead of XMLDocument objects thus reducing the serialization time/memory and improved performance.  • Extracted functional requirements from regular meetings and translated those requirements into detailed business requirements  • Developed business logic layer, Data Access layer and application layer by programming in C# and developed web pages using ASP.NET, JavaScript, and jQuery in Visual Studio.  • Implemented logging using Microsoft Enterprise Library Loggingand Caching in the application.  • Developed around 10 WCF services which involves requirement phase to Testing, also involves integration and production support.  • Implemented XML translation between the objects for performing various operations.  • Developed a value added tool called "Service Log Monitor", to monitor all the logs of the services which is available to all the teams. This log gives the frequent error details.  • Implemented Session management techniques for each user of Service log Monitor tool and stored it in SQL Server.  • Developed a Service Tester tool to test the services by stubbing the response. Also used SOAPUI to test the service.  • Automated the Service Tester tool for generating the unit test case documents for the services, thus reducing the effort to write them manually.  • Designed and developed database tables and stored procedures for different WCF services and tools.  • Implemented Ajax for the asynchronous post back events in the Service Log Monitor tool development.  • Worked on SOAP with WCF request and response and performed load testing for improving the performance using ODP.net instead of ADO.net provider.  • Analyzed root cause for job failures of WCFservices by debugging and troubleshooting the application and documented.  • Monitored logs to ensure smooth running of applications.  • Used Visual source safe (VSS) and Software Change Management (SCM) version controls for maintaining the code.  • Co-ordinated with Onsite Manager for work allocation, review & ensuring quality delivery to the customer.    Environment:  C#, XML, ASP.Net, WCF, SQL Server 2005/2008, VSS, SCM, MS Visio, ODP.Net, XML SPY, SOAP UI, HP Quality Center. Software Engineer Suviva Software Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2009 to March 2011 Project: Employee Management System  Employee Management Portal deals with managing the employee details in the company. This portal provides the facility to create an account for the new user and update the details for an existing employee. The existing employee can search for any other employee irrespective of their domains.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for architecting the system in conformance with user's need.  • Designed Database tables for storing the all the details of the employee.  • Developed a search engine using Ajax for searching the details of the other employee.  • Tested the site thoroughly and deployed with zero defects    Environment:  C#, ASP.NET, ADO.Net, SQL Server 2005, JavaScript, CSS Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering Sree Kavitha Engg College Skills ASP (8 years), ASP.NET (8 years), C# (8 years), MS ASP (8 years), MS SQL SERVER (8 years), .Net Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2010,C# 4.0, ASP.NET 4.0, VB.net ,HTML5 ,CSS, Java Script, JQuery, MVC 3.0,Razor, AngularJS, XML, HTML5, XML, Web Services, PL/SQL Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server 2008, SSRS, AJAX, Bootstrap, MS Visio Extensions, N-unit (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C#.Net, JavaScript, SQL and PL/SQL, C, C++, HTML  Web Technologies ASP, XML, HTML, HTML5, XAML, CSS, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, JQuery  .NET Technologies ASP.NET, WCF, LINQ, ADO.NET, Web Services, Web Forms, Web Parts, SOAP  Net Framework 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0  IDE Tools Visual Studio 2015/2013/2010/2008, SQL Server Management Studio  Desktop Appl WPF and Win Forms  Databases SQL Server 2008/2005/2000  Protocols HTTP, FTP, SOAP, MQ  Reporting Tools Sql Server Reporting Services (SSRS 2008/2005)  Modeling Tools UML, MS Visio 2010/2007  Version Control Team Foundation Server 2010/2008, Git, BitBucket  Servers Windows Server 2008/2003/NT, Microsoft IIS(7.0/6.0/5.0/4.0)  Other Tools Soap UI, Postman, Altova Xml Spy