Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Cisco System USA • 3.7 years of experience in Software Industry. Good programming experience on Mobile Technology and Set Top Box. Keen to learn new technologies and excited to work both as an individual and in a team.  • Extensive experience in IT as Software Engineer in Object Oriented technologies and Android applications with Java/Android technologies involving System Analysis, Technical Architecture, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  • Over 3+ years of experience on working with mobile applications on Android platform, interactive application development.  • Proficient with common Android framework APIs.  • Developed user interfaces with rich features.  • Possess strong knowledge of the Android Activity/Service lifecycle call-back methods.  • Designed GUI and interfaced with services for the mobile application.  • Designed and developed reliable components.  • Extensively involved in unit testing and functional testing of applications.  • Experience in programming skills, CORE JAVA.  • Good knowledge of JNI.  • Experienced in requirement gathering, architectural design, and functional design and turning requirement to product.  • Worked for clients like Samsung, LG. Work Experience Software Developer Cisco System USA March 2013 to Present Description:  The objective of this project is to use external social networking site use post while watching some video on Set Top Box.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Set Top Box Application to check network latency test through Pinging a server and getting response within 140ms.  • Blocking all remote key events on video and sending the key response to social site.  • Implement channel up and down while user is on social site.  • Implement Pip Pop exit case while URI tuning is done.  • Worked on Implementing Automation Test Framework.    Environment:  Webstrom, Git, , Unix and JavaScript Development of Samsung Browser For Android SAMSUNG INDIA April 2012 to February 2013 Role Software Developer  Description: The objective of this project is to provide multi process browser in Samsung android devices.    Responsibilities:  • Implementation of Multi window feature.  • Implement Pinch Zoom feature on multi window tab.  • Implementation of last browsing history.  • Implementation of Authentication dialog for security purpose.  • Involved mainly in Application and Framework Development.    Environment:  Eclipse, ADT Plugin, Android SDK, perforce, Windows XP, Java and Android   Title Android OS Up-gradation Software Developer LG Electronics India May 2011 to March 2012 Description:  Android OS contains a set of inbuilt applications provided by Google like Email, MMS, Contacts, SIM Contacts, SIM Tool Kit Application, Calendar, Phone, Launcher etc. and various Widgets. To make them adapted to various operator specific requirements, our reputed OEM manufacturer needs to customize and add additional features into these built-in applications. I am part of the Application and Framework Team for a set of major Android based Smartphone. Worked on a set of important Android modules -like Email, MMS etc.    Responsibilities:  • Take a responsibility of porting of whole Email module application and Framework development.  • Involved in Application Modifications.  • Involved in Feature Implementation.  • Involved in Operator Specific Requirements Implementation.  • Involved in User data backup for Email module while FOTA up gradation of device.  • Involved in Analyze & Bug Fixing activity.  • Binary Release process creating (BIN, ROM, KDZ)  • Operator specific requirement such as: Wallpaper, Ringtone, Power On and Off Tone,  • Preloaded Apns, Email, Third party apk etc.    Environment:  Eclipse, ADT Plugin, Android SDK, perforce, Windows XP, Java and Android   Title SAFE Cell Application on Android Platform Software Developer Mobisoft InfoTech March 2010 to July 2011 Description:  Development of application called Fampus which was responsible for broadcasting different events information of Fampus University on Android Platform. It also records the check in of user in particular event.    Responsibilities:  • Design and development of the GUI Interface.    • Requirement gathering.  • Implement the GUI and show the desired result based on data combinations    Environment:  Eclipse, ADT Plugin, Android SDK, perforce, Windows XP, Java and Android   Internship Software Developer MobisoftInfotech India August 2010 to April 2011 Description:  SAFECELL app solves the problem of distracted driving. This app is a must for anyone who is tempted of picking up his phone while driving. It tracks your position, warns you of local driving rules as you drive. It blocks calls and messages during trips. It can automatically notify the caller's that you are driving.    Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering.  • Implement the GUI and show the desired result based on data combinations  • json parsing.  • Call and Sms blocking.  • Reverse Geo-coding.  • Start Application on Boot.    Environment:  Eclipse, ADT Plugin, Android SDK, Git, Windows XP, Java and Android   Title Fampus Application on Android Platform Student Research Programmer ETH Research Lab September 2008 to May 2009 Title Location Based Emergency services Student Intern ETH Research Lab September 2008 to March 2009 Description:  This software will provide emergency services to individuals at any place by the help of his/her mobile phone by using its cell id. As somebody launch the application in his/her mobile phone the cell id will get trace by the server and according to the request made by client server will response back to the client via sms and also server will call related service number for help there are many other facilities such playing siren etc.We are using J2me.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on GUI and show the desired result based on data combinations and designing database.  • Implement Emergency message sending.  • Work on playing Siren in urgency.  • Designing Database.  • Calling to required emergency number and played prerecorded message.    Environment:  Eclipse, J2ME, Windows XP and Symbian Education Bachelor in Computer Engineering Pune University - Pune, Maharashtra Additional Information Professional Expertise  • Product Development  • Product Task Planning  • Mobile Technology Development    • Client Interaction  • Java  • Set Top Box Development    • Cisco Standards  • OEM Standards  • Agile Methodology    Technical Skills  Programming Languages: Core Java, Advanced Java, J2ME, C.  Scripting: JavaScript.  Smartphone OS: Android, Symbian.  Database: Mysql, SQLite3.  Tools: Eclipse, Net Beans, Android SDK, Rally (User and Task stories),  Source Insight, GIT, Perforce, Rational Clear Case, Beyond Compare,  Code Coverage and Code Duplication (Jshint), Debugger Trace View,  Webstrom.