Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - ICF Jersey City, NJ • With over 13 years of web development experience, I am a well-rounded full-stack developer with deep knowledge  • in HTML ,JavaScript (13 yrs; native and jQuery + other frameworks), CSS (13 yrs;  • bootstrap 3, some LESS/SASS), responsive design (6yrs), accessibility (13 yrs; 508, WCAG 2.0, and ARIA),  • SQL Server 7-2012; some Oracle and MySQL), performance, and security. I'm happy to learn new frameworks for  • any of the above technologies, and should be able to make the leap to PHP or Node.js with little difficulty. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Developer ICF - Frederick, MD January 2018 to Present Technical Lead on the Child and Youth Programs Inspection Management System (CYP IMS) CriteriaManagement System, used by the military for inspecting childcare facilities and youth programs. Developed theinitial version of the Criteria Management System in fw/1 with Wirebox using OOP (also HTML5, CSS,  JavaScript/jQuery); later refactored to use ORM. Designed class and sequence diagrams in UML. Designed the access control system. Assisted on requirements and programming of other modules, maintenance, and bug fixes over the course of 3.5 years, including writing unit tests (in Testbox) and creating and executing an indexing plan on the MS SQL Server 2012 database. CYP IMS was an agile project with daily scrums.  • Technical Lead on Healthy Marriage and Responsible Fatherhood Technical Assistance (HMRFTA), a portal supporting grantees under these programs, using Mura 5/6 with custom plugins written in Coldfusion and fw/1. Implemented a custom theme using responsive design (HTML5, CSS/LESS) before it was mainstream. Lead and mentored a junior developer and content manager on Mura CMS.  • Technical Lead on other projects: AFCA survey (and results site); informational sites for government initiatives such as Welfare Peer Technical Assistance Network (PeerTA), Healthymarriage.org, and fatherhood.gov.  • Provided front-end and back-end development support on numerous other projects including Leisure Market Survey, Office for Victims of Crime Training and Technical Assistance Center (OVTTAC), National Training and Technical Assistance Center (NTTAC).  • Built site templates and user interfaces in HTML and CSS from Photoshop (PSD) or Powerpoint comps for Healthymarriage.org, HMRFTA (responsive), and AFCA sites and initial site templates for CYP IMS.  • HTML email template implementation for HealthyMarriage.org. (fluid but not fully responsive).  • Focus on accessibility while working on many government sites. Responded to SortSite accessibility reports provided by the web hosting team and remediated issues on custom coded and CMS-powered sites. Self-auditing of pages/code using the WAVE toolbar and diagnostic CSS.  • Intensive focus on application security to pass in-house security scans required for deployment to a live server.  • Participated in the company mentoring program and mentored two employees for six months each.  • Presented knowledge sharing sessions on web.config (for CF developers) and using SVG for iconography.  • Worked on a number of CMMI level 2-3 projects and became familiar with PLC processes and documentation.  • Technologies used: HTML5 and XHTML, CSS (bootstrap 3, skeleton, some LESS and SASS), JavaScript (jQuery, mootools, Modernizr, AJAX, JSON), ColdFusion 8-11 (Mura CMS, fw/1, Wirebox, Testbox, ModelGlue, Coldspring, Fusebox, Farcry CMS), Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, MySQL 5, and XML. Tools used include StarUML, TortoiseSVN, JIRA, Jenkins, CFBuilder 2-3 and MS SQL Management Studio. Senior Software Developer SRA International, Inc - Frederick, MD March 2015 to December 2017 • Provided application development and support for the U.S. Army at Fort Detrick and on SRA's proprietary Peer Review software applications used in support of this contract and other clients.  • Performed ColdFusion development on Komen Grants Management System including custom web forms and workflow engine in TransferORM and Dojo.  • ISO 9000 training and general CMMI awareness.  • Technologies used include HTML/XHTML, CSS, JavaScript (native and Dojo), ColdFusion MX 6.1, 7 and 8 (TransferORM on Coldspring, Fusebox 5.1 MVC with CFCs, Fusebox 3 and FuseQ on legacy apps), MS SQL Server 2000/2005, XML, TortoiseSVN and Trac, with the primary authoring tools of Homesite+ and CFEclipse. Senior Software Developer Aviation Training Consulting - Altus, OK May 2014 to February 2015 • Provided web/application development and support for proprietary software applications built for the U.S. Navy and in support of several contracts by internal clients.  • Specific projects worked on include: design, development and database design on the GFI Library, which organized publications and changes in order to streamline curriculum and concurrency efforts, some programming on IMPACT (curriculum development), and database design and some programming on CDA (concurrency management for curriculum and training devices, which helped assess and manage the impact of changes on training).  • Technologies used include (X)HTML, CSS (tableless layouts), JavaScript (native+mootools), ColdFusion 7 (including CFCs and Verity search), Oracle 10g, MS Access, with the primary authoring tools of Homesite and TOAD (for Oracle) and Adobe Photoshop 6 and Paint.NET for graphics. Senior Software Developer Constella Group - Frederick, MD March 2013 to April 2014 • Provided web/application development and support, primarily for the U.S. Army at Fort Detrick and on Constella's proprietary peer review applications used in support of this contract and other clients.  • Specific projects worked on include: design, development and database design on the GFI Library, which organized publications and changes in order to streamline curriculum and concurrency efforts, some programming on IMPACT (curriculum development), and database design and some programming on CDA.(concurrency management for curriculum and training devices, which helped assess and manage the impact of change on training.  • Technologies used include (X)HTML, CSS (tableless layouts), JavaScript (native+mootools), ColdFusion 7 (including CFCs and Verity search), Oracle 10g, MS Access, with the primary authoring tools of Homesite+and TOAD (for Oracle) and Adobe Photoshop 6 and Paint.NET for graphics. Senior Software Developer Constella Group - Frederick, MD January 2012 to February 2013 • Provided web/application development and support, primarily for the U.S. Army at Fort Detrick and on Constella's proprietary peer review applications used in support of this contract and other clients.  • Specific projects include: Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs (CDMRP) eReceipt of proposals for FY03-05 program announcements, including an architectural redesign for FY05; Program and Peer Review Management Information System (P2RMIS) application for peer review (Fusebox 3), Peer Review online scoring application (FuseQ and XMLHTTPRequest) interfacing with the P2RMIS database.  • Extensive Adobe Acrobat 5.0 scripting (ECMA-script) to assist with automating document deliverables  • Member of the 2004/2005 web accessibility task force.  • Assisted in usability testing and processing performance data on the public web site of the Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs.  • Technologies used include HTML/XHTML, CSS (including one tableless layout), JavaScript (including AJAX, XMLHTTP Request), ColdFusion 5.0 and MX (Fusebox 3 and FuseQ), XML, Microsoft SQL Server 2000, and Adobe Acrobat 5, with the primary authoring tools of Homesite+ and Dream Weaver MX and Photoshop 6. Web/Application Developer (SE5) Research Management Consultants, Inc - Washington, DC February 2010 to December 2011 • Provided ColdFusion application development and support for the Office of Personnel Management on their Intranet and Internet sites, and other projects as assigned.  • Specific tasks and projects included: developed front-end UI (HTML templates, CSS), and Access-driven portions of the Federal Employee Information Site for the Proposed Department of Homeland Security site; an MSHTML-based WYSIWYG content creation piece with MS Word-like functionality; prototyping of e-Gov sub-site navigation menu in ASP (JScript) and ColdFusion; Web- and database-enabled employee entry and exit forms and processes; developed a generic database-driven FAQ system (in Coldfusion); custom 404 page in ASP with auto-forwarding scripting to aid in migration to .asp file types on the Intranet.  • Technologies used include HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ColdFusion 4.5/5.0, ASP 3.0 (VBScript and JScript),MSHTML, and Microsoft Access 2002 with primary authoring tools of Homesite 4.5 and Macromedia Dreamweaver 4.0. Some use of Adobe Photoshop 6 and ImageReady 2, and Microsoft Visio. Lead Developer Doceus Inc - Washington, DC April 2008 to January 2010 • Primary developer for two modules in a software as a service suite: Revenue Generator and Shell (environment and software administration). Created and maintained a stand-alone ColdFusion form validation and database-interfacing library of modules as part of the Shell and licensed for use in other projects.  • Lead developer on many small business and nonprofit websites, implementing both the front-end and back-end functionality, including MooreAssociates.com, ASLRRA.org, NBC4 Camp4Kids, WMAI.org, OSA.org, Inter.net, Thomson Financial and Thomson-Nelson, Sam & Harry's and The Caucus Room online store (plus a Palm VII-based order form). Assisted with dozens more including Doceus Intranet v2, CustomCity.com, ZebraPass.com, DrJays.com, Ross Center, Clarity Bank, National Parks Foundation, Maryland Health Partners, Doceus (v3), David M. Schwartz/Architectural Services Inc., Marketing Resources, LifeTime TV, and maintenance on many more.  • Full life cycle development experience including: Developed functional requirements, technical specifications, database design and implementation, development and maintenance of client sites and internal projects (Intranet, tools, software, custom tags and reusable modules and functions).  • Often consulted by my peers for my exceptional knowledge of JavaScript, DHTML, CSS, HTML, Adobe ImageReady 2.0-3.0 and browser compatibility issues (from the old to latest versions).  • Technologies used include HTML (v3.2-4), CSS1&2, JavaScript, ColdFusion 4.0-5, CyberCash integration via CFX tag, MS SQL Server 7 and 2000, Palm Web Clippings, some Flash 4.0 and converting VHS to RealVideo 7 format. Development tools included ColdFusion Studio 4.5.1, MS SQL Server Enterprise Manager, Visual Studio and Visual SourceSafe, Red Gate SQL Compare & Data Compare, Adobe PhotoShop 5.5 and ImageReady 2.0, and MS Office 2000. Occasional use of Macromedia Flash 4.0. Web Manager/Designer The Mitchell Group - Washington, DC December 2006 to March 2008 • Provided web site design, development and support for the Office of U.S. Foreign Disaster Assistance.  • Maintained OFDA's Internet site within USAID's guidelines (using HTML, CSS, SSI and JavaScript),including accessibility in accordance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act, online slide shows, document conversion to HTML and PDF formats. Redesigned and maintained OFDA's Intranet from scratch, integrating existing content; included design and implementation using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, setup/customization of iCal 2.5 online calendars, graphic design, content creation, and remote administration of IIS 4.0.  • Other roles included: acting as a conduit of information within OFDA regarding information distributed via the Intranet/Internet and all other online issues; list owner for OFDA's public listserv; assisted MIS staff in supporting a user base of 100-150 clients on browser, Internet, Intranet, iCal and other software issues.  • Tools used include HomeSite 4.0, Adobe Photoshop 5.0 & ImageReady 2.0, MS Office 97, Adobe PageMaker 6.5, Acrobat 3.0, and an assortment of Photoshop plug-ins. Producer, Technical Support Epic MegaGames Inc - Rockville, MD June 2004 to November 2006 • Producer for several PC software titles. Responsible for project management, budgeting, scheduling, and coordination with marketing, PR, webmaster, and beta-testing teams with remote development teams.  • Web design and management: co-created and maintained the Age of Wonders site. Created and maintained the beta tester portal. Involved hand-coding HTML, content creation (text and images), and graphic manipulation/optimization with Adobe Photoshop 3.0/4.0 & Image Ready 1.0, and GIF Construction Set.  • Other tasks included desktop publishing (MS Publisher, Quarkxpress 4.0), technical and creative writing, recruitment, technical support for PC products in MS-DOS, Windows 3.X and 95 environments. Education BS psychology University of Maryland