iOS Developer iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> iOS Developer Los Angeles, CA, 90004, US iOS focused developer with combined 5+ years experience in iOS and web development. Developed and shipped several apps to the App Store; all rated above 4 stars. Proponent of the growth mindset. Interested in modular design, generics, and protocol oriented programming. Work Experience iOS Developer AE Studio - Venice, CA July 2018 to April 2019 • Acted as the sole/lead iOS developer across multiple projects working directly with clients and a junior iOS developer to ensure deadlines and expectations were met.   • Set up and spearheaded meetings to discuss gaps in development process which resulted in the company collaboratively establishing rules and guidelines around code style, design patterns, code review, and git strategies.   • Implemented continuous integration and distribution by utilizing CircleCI, Fabric, and Fastlane to improve efficiency around build testing and distribution across projects.   • Trained and mentored junior iOS developer through project management, code review, and pair programming. iOS Engineer mobileforming - Glendale, CA February 2016 to June 2018 • Worked on a team of 6-8 iOS developers for the company’s largest client project, Hilton Honors.   • Following agile principles, participated in regular meetings with team members and project managers to discuss/estimate biweekly sprint tickets.   • Participated in regular architecture meetings to discuss and give updates on a large refactoring effort of the Hilton Honors app to improve modularity and maintainability of codebase while delivering on new feature requests and maintenance.   • Contributed in building an internal networking framework called General Connection Framework to be used in all current and future iOS projects. Software Engineer Slate Studio? - Venice, CA December 2014 to February 2016 • Worked with another junior iOS developer and in-house designer to build Lionsgate’s Tribeca Shortlist from inception to App Store acceptance. Education Web Development General Assembly - Santa Monica, CA March 2014 to June 2014 Master's in Global Medicine University of Southern California - Los Angeles, CA January 2013 to June 2014 Bachelor's in Molecular and Cell Biology University of California, Berkeley - Berkeley, CA January 2005 to June 2012 Skills Xcode, Swift, Objective-C, Objective C, Storyboard, Iphone, MVVM Links http://github.com/paulhyunkim