Voice Recognition Automation Engineer Voice Recognition Automation Engineer Voice Recognition Automation Engineer - Nuance Communications, Farmington Hills Farmington Hills, MI • 14+ years of experience in Embedded Systems, Robotics, Software Design, Development, Quality Assurance, Team Management, and Software Automation.  • Proven Experience in leading the design, development, implementation and deployment of software related accelerators, solutions and frameworks.  • Participated in complex presales endeavors, estimate effort / cost of projects at the RFP, proposal level.  • Experience in leading the integrating automated test suites with software builds to support Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment delivery of code to production.  • Study research journals like Springer link, Science Direct and IEEE to gather best practices and convey them to the Program Management.  • Document Architectures and Solution description documents including creating proposals, using UML tools for a good abstraction of the design.  • Coordinate development and implementation of documented test plans and cases within standardized test infrastructure; review and approve related deliveries to ensure proper coverage, implementation and documentation.  • Assist Program Managers to create better products by providing Community feedback.  • Proficient in Design, Development and implementation and maintenance of automated testing frameworks for Mobile Applications, Embedded and Web-based applications.  • Absolutely love network packets analysis for enterprise and mobile security, business intelligence, competitive advantage, validation, performance and benchmarking purposes.  • Great interest and experience in Penetration Testing for Mobile, Embedded and Enterprise Products.  • Experience working closely with program managers, designers, and developers to ensure a successful, high quality user experience.  • Proficient in supporting customer needs through the development and mapping of System and Software Requirements to Design components.  • Demonstrate understanding of software engineering leveraged on experience with: real-time event driven systems, systems using a high level of data communications between processes, electro mechanical control systems, and systems using an RTOS to support application development.  • Interact with multiple engineering teams, marketing groups and others to gather input for producing appropriate software designs and implementations.  • Develop or maintain system requirements in detailed, clear and well organized functional documents (business requirements documents, business or system use cases, reports) and/or process flow diagrams.  • Develop detailed functional and system tests from documented system requirements. Ensure appropriate test coverage by mapping system requirements to test cases. Develop or contribute to the development of regression tests and/or user acceptance tests.  • Mentor teams and offer solutions to Performance Testing execution level issues; solution, troubleshooting, performance analysis review, resolutions to performance test analysis etc.  • Communicate with external stakeholders including development, business analyst and product leads for all project related activities and driving automation activities.  • Depending on specific requirements, write effective manual and automated test cases and automated frameworks; performs software defect tracking and regression for identified software release  • Assist in planning, analyzing, designing, developing, and executing training relative to manual testing, automation/load testing tools and methodologies  • Design, develop, and executes reusable and maintainable automated scripts; plan and execute functional and system level testing of products across all platforms to test various features; apply expertise and understanding of issues that may arise around automated/load testing and assist in researching and providing solutions and to add, modify, or enhance previously recorded automated scripts  • Use appropriate quality control tools to uncover defects and discover the state of the code; analyzes and records testing results and defects  • Participate in design activity with other programmers on technical aspects relating to testing, including functional specifications, design parameters, feature enhancements, and alternative solutions.  • Provide development and test-related technical direction and project management within a project/scrum team; provided guidance in methodology selection, project planning, the review of work products; served in a part-time technical lead capacity to a limited number of junior test engineers, providing immediate direction and guidance  • Keep technically abreast of trends and advancements within area of specialization, incorporating these improvements where applicable; attend technical conferences as appropriate  • Experienced working with release procedures, test methodologies, QA process and software defect tracking; demonstrated expert level on implementing test methodologies and tools (e.g Selenium, Junit, Java, JIRA, Quality Center) to write automatic test script and test cases for software products.  • Support prototyping activities that validate business requirements and solution definition.  • Make a commitment to ensure that a customer s needs are met by taking personal responsibility for service and quality. Appreciate how each customer views satisfaction may vary depending upon their specific needs. To the extent that it is reasonable, go the extra mile to make sure that each customer's needs are met. Follow up to monitor satisfaction and respond to additional requests or problems quickly  • A strong working knowledge and call flow of networking protocols such as TCP/IP, HTTP, UDP and DHCP.  • Provide direction and oversight to project team to design, develop, deploy and sustain solutions that meet applicable business requirements. Work Experience Voice Recognition Automation Engineer Nuance Communications, Farmington Hills July 2018 to Present Role - Voice Recognition Automation Engineer  • Work with Customers and keep them in sync with the testing progress during each sprint.  • Customer Advocate on how to test the Voice Recognition System.  • Daily participation with the Customer, to help them build Automation framework for Voice Recognition System.  • Work with remote teams to convey the customer concerns from each visit and drive it to completion.  • Design and Architect End to End Automation for the Voice Recognition Systems, for multiple Languages.  • Apply techniques to extract contents from images and voice data to construct meaningful user interactions, thereby improving end user experience.  • Study, review and develop POCs using existing competitor APIs.  • Fulfill the role of Resident Engineer after each release cycle, to help address any concerns and facilitate testing on the Nuance Voice Recognition System.  • Smoke Test and advice enhancements to embedded and cloud voice biometry applications.  • Create POCs using Nuance public Voice Recognition APIs.  • Review performance analysis of Speech Recognition Systems and recommend improvements.  • Work with Audio Engineering team to echo the customer feedback and review improved Speech Recognition System. Software Automation Architect Dynatrace - Detroit, MI February 2012 to July 2018 Role - Technical Lead  • Successfully manage technical aspect of an Offshore Transition Project.  • Lead Design and development of automation proof of concepts and delegate the development of automation framework to competent resources.  • Coordinate and lead knowledge transfer with geographically diversified teams and manage information share, and track action items for a better coordination among teams, during various phases of Software Automation project.  • Travel to different geographies to work with teams and share user stories and oversee the implementation of best practices.  • Lead the team by example, by working on the transition activities and then assist the team with the learning.  • Assist Automation Team come up to speed with large code bases and verify and validate new implemented modifications.  • Mentor, motivate and guide others on the team, be an advocate of automation.  • Work with local and distributed QA teams, product teams and developers in an agile environment to drive projects to release within agreed-upon timeframes.  • Monitor and improve customer experience for digital business success.  • Optimize user experience and prioritize feature development based on analytics.  Role - Software Automation Architect  • Design and Developed automation for Data Validation for Migrations from Legacy Databases to NoSQL Databases.  • Design and Developed Wireshark Automation to reconstruct Web Pages and Water Fall Charts for validating HTTP and TCP metrics between application at Network and Application layer of the TCP/IP Protocol Stack; Use these numbers to validate product's correctness.  • Instrument and Data mine mobile and web metrics; DNS time, HTTP Connect Times, First Byte Times, SSL Connect times, W3C Timings. Use these metrics to suggest improvements to customer business and offer competitive insights to the customer, therefore helping them to improve transaction experience.  • Designed and Developed Automation POCs and prototypes along with working on projects.  • Analyze product specs, decompose complicated software systems, and design automation strategies to test these systems.  • Represent QA in technical discussion, decision and design involved during product development.  • Create Solution description documents explaining in depth about the automation flow, sequence diagrams, effort estimations and pseudo code.  • Implement data capture in order to measure test progress across concurrent systems under test.  • Capture KPIs of systems under test in order to evaluate and compare across testing cycles.  • Architect test deployment and automation solutions to enable continuous testing of concurrent suites of products.  • Analyze and understand each product's environment, architecture, and interdependencies to determine and apply appropriate test automation methodologies and cases relative to applications being tested.  • Assist merged business units, with knowledge transfer and technical aspects of the product and advise them on the best practices on product and guide them through the entire transition process of incorporating the existing design into their own.  • Advice the impacts of architectural changes, on ongoing projects.  • Perform SWOT to identify features in the competitive landscape and advice program management to incorporate them.  Role - Mobile Automation Engineer  • Responsible for Design, Development, implementation and maintenance of complete End to End Automation Testing Frameworks for Mobile Applications, including iOS and Android.  • Instrument and run automated tests on customer iOS and Android apps to gather valuable insights and suggests improvements to customer regarding their multiplatform apps.  • Heavily involved in the Performance testing on iOS and Android and Server Side monitoring (CPU, Memory, Heap, Garbage Collection etc.) and identify the root cause of the bottlenecks.  • Driver for incorporation of Industry's Best Practices in Mobile and Enterprise Automation Testing.  • Development of Mobile Web Sites using jQuery, XHTML and CSS for Mobile Performance Testing.  • Android Automation using python, on SL4A.  • Research latest trends in the industry from the Automation perspective to keep the team ahead in the game.  • Hands on experience on iOS and Android code profiling using Dynatrace Application Monitoring.  • Developed a Robotic framework for Automation Testing of Applications on Android Devices.  • Automated Synthetic Mobile tests to run at multiple supported geographies and network interfaces and signal strengths, such as Wi-Fi, 4G and 3G.  • Work with the mobile application development team to ensure that tests extend to the relevant reference platforms and environment.  • Automated Security Assessments with Dozer for Android Applications.  • Developed Automation framework to sniff network packets over WiFi for Mobile Apps and compare network metrics between Application layer and TCP layer. Software Automation Engineer Aricent Group - Dallas, TX August 2012 to January 2013 Role - Network Layer Software Automation Engineer  • Documented detailed test plan development for end to end testing for SIP, Routers, DSLAMS, and Softswitch.  • Work closely with DevOps architect to incorporate automated tests into the continuous integration pipeline.  • Managed defects and coordinate with the stakeholders for a timely resolution.  • Managed test automation team by providing leadership and planning.  • Responsible for the frontend and backend automation framework design, development and maintenance standards required for test automation. Software Developer AT&T SERVICES - Chicago, IL January 2012 to August 2012 Role - Developer  • Design, development, troubleshooting and maintenance of existing Perl scripts and modules.  • Extensive use of API module for creating, manipulation and accessing network element information from complex data structure.  • Development of SQL queries for business and report generation.  • Creation of client specific Perl modules.  • Migration of legacy Perl code between different Development Environments  • Bug fixes and enhancement to legacy programs.  • Regular expressions are natural ingredients to Perl programs.  • Accomplished 95% efficiency by automating manual IP addresses matching procedure. Services Software Engineer ERICSSON INC - Plano, TX June 2008 to December 2011 Role - Business Improvement and Innovation  • Identified improvement areas within the projects and suggest improvements to Program management.  • Materialization of the plans through innovations filed with the internal innovation board for process improvement.  • Support Presales during Network analysis and customer requirements.  • Continually developing ways to achieve cost effectiveness.  • Achieved 87% improvement in Test Data setup time by fabricating internal tool.  • Solved the problem of database connectivity from Load Runner to Oracle by development of software module that brought data setup time from 2 hours to 5 minutes, attaining a 95% improvement.  • Engineered many internal tools based on Open Source, which become a part of the knowledge base and were used globally within Ericsson.    Role - Test Lead  • Organize plans to implement all aspects of the testing process on large scale enterprise level projects.  • Involved in Business Requirement Analysis.  • Created traceability matrix to map the test cases with requirements of the system.  • Wrote and documented detailed Test Cases and Test Plans based on business requirements.  • Preparing tasks estimates, test schedules and to provide input to project schedules.  • Conducted manual and automated regression testing across various releases.  • Created the automated testing platform for the regressions testing by developing the automated scripts.  • Facilitated Inter-Operability tests for the customer and provided support.  • Active involvement in the various delivery phases of the project.  • Verification of the web services.  • Managed software build installation process to multiple environments on multiple platforms.  • Perform daily SQA activities, QA planning, project estimation, documentation standards, and best practices.  • Testing of common standards such as HTTP/HTTPS, XML, and SOAP, including customized interfaces.  • Coordinates Change Request (RFC) support with Project Management/Business Analyst, Development, and Operational teams.  • Collaborate with Developers and Development Manager to understand product features and create real-world test cases and use cases.  • Work with product management and architects to incorporate testability requirements into the designs.  • Work closely with the project team to address/evaluate project changes in a timely manner.  • Aid in the design, development and implementation of an automation environment.  • Maintain documentation of test results.  • Analyze test results and recommends corrective actions.  • Track defects and assigning defects to developers for fixing.  • Train in-house quality assurance resources.  • Develop data driven performance test scripts to help validate performance of applications/ products based on the requirements.  • Set up test environments and builds out interdependent test beds.    Role - Software Automation Engineer  • Automated manual test cases through QTP.  • Prime driver for automating SOAP and XML messages through QTP and Perl.  • WAP Applications automation through QTP.  • Development of SQL functions for automating the backend calls to the Oracle Database.  • Designed in house automation tools in Perl to achieve efficiency and cost savings.  • Work closely with algorithm-development leaders to gain a deep understanding of the requirements and operation of one or more specific algorithmic technologies.    Role - Mobile Application Tester  • Testing Ericsson Mobile Applications on Device Anywhere.  • Verification of Software Builds for Blackberry users using Blackberry MDS Simulator.  • Extensive testing of WAP functionality for the end user by employing WAP simulators and WAP enabled phones. Research Associate DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS LABORATORY - Richardson, TX January 2007 to April 2008 Role - Embedded Software Engineer  • Circuit Design.  • Studying the interference among the Wi Fi, Zigbee and Bluetooth.  • Developed software and firmware for the prototype in C.  • Wrote numerous device drivers for UART, RS-232 and graphical LCD.  Role - Research Associate  • Requirement gathering and analysis.  • Testbed Network topology analysis  • Testbed development.  • Software Design and Development.  • Support for Scoping /timelines and Risk analysis.  • Testing and Verification of the Testbed. Software Engineer ERICSSON INC February 2005 to December 2006 Role - Solution Integrator  • Integration of the Billing Solution for the customer.  • Migrations, Expansion and configuration of the Subscriber Databases.  • System Support on NMS Application operations and administration for new deliveries.  • CSR handling and troubleshooting, Software Updates and Upgrades.  • Ensure System availability and stability 24x7.  • Development of provisioning scripts for billing nodes. Education MS Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering The University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX December 2008 B.E in Information Technology in Information Technology Rajiv Gandhi Technical University June 2004 Skills Solidworks, Assembly, Cdma, Gsm, Linux, Spi, I2c, Uart, Black box, Http, Sip, Soap, Wap, Visual studio, C#, C/c++, C++, Django, Html, Javascript Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  • Ability to gain customer confidence through subject matter expertise that includes the ability to discuss solution, strengths, weaknesses, and possible out-of-the box alternatives where necessary to meet customer business needs.  • Customer focused by being responsive, having a sense of urgency and empathy, in an effort to develop the relationship with the customer and the customer's business.  • Strong problem solving skills and analytical ability.  • Excellent team player with good communication and interpersonal skills.  • Ability to work under stressful situations, meet tight deadlines and deliver services with high quality.  • Ability to lead and motivate others and work in a team environment.  • Excellent communication and consulting skills in order to be able to participate and drive customer meetings.  • Adaptability in a constantly changing environment, by approaching change or newness positively and communicating with others in a positive manner.  • Being an active participant and acting as a change agent.  • Managing work and time by finding and taking advantage of available resources to complete work efficiently.  • Being able to work with multiple, time critical priorities.  • Quality oriented by finding a balance between speed and quality of work, based on business realities.  • Taking initiative and independent action by responding quickly, taking responsibility and being accountable for their actions. Going above and beyond the basic job requirements.  • Create energy by being engaged and motivated, maintaining a positive attitude, and displaying a passion to win on a daily basis.  • Innovation by thinking outside the box, challenging ideas and practices constructively and striving to continuously improve the processes.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages Assembly, C/C++, C#, Perl, Python, Java, PL/SQL and UNIX Shell Scripts  Operating Systems Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP, OS X, Android, Solaris, and Linux  Web Technologies JavaScript, XML, HTML, jQuery, XML, SOAP and WAP  Computer Networking TCP-IP/UDP, HTTP, SIP, CDMA/GSM and Zigbee  Automation Tools and Frameworks Custom Automation Frameworks, QTP, LoadRunner, jMeter, Selenium and Robotium  Databases Oracle, MongoDB, SQL Server and MySQL  Version Control CVS, SVN  Development Methodologies Waterfall, CI, Iterative and Agile  Q/A Testing Manual, Automated, End-to-End, Regression, Integration, Structural/White Box, Functional/Black Box, Stress, and Performance Test.  Web Frameworks Django and Spring  Modeling Tool Enterprise Architect and Microsoft Visio  IDE Visual Studio, PyCharm, Eclipse and WebStorm  CAD Design SolidWorks  Continuous Integration Jenkins  Embedded Development Boards Raspberry Pi, Gumstix, Beagleboard and Intel Galileo  Embedded Protocols / Bus I2C, SPI and UART