Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Velocity Solutions, LLC Louisville, KY Work Experience Software Engineer Velocity Solutions, LLC November 2014 to Present • Responsible for all feature updates and site improvements to a PostGres-based analytics matrix and CRM tool, the company's core product. This product is used by banks and credit unions to track and decision risk, review account history, and produce letters and calls.  • Overhaul and redesign of compiled loader procedure to interpretative script, resulting in a 175% improvement in execution and load times for all incoming client data and processes.  • Worked directly with sales and finance partners within the company to produce a dynamic series of SSRS pulldowns, which were directly used in on-site reviews of client metrics and bank performance. Clients described these meetings and the data provided as invaluable to their engagement and retention of the product.  • Compiled routines for polling system-wide statistics so that our team could better compare bank-to-bank figures, perform institution-wide metrics, and pinpoint potential issues in incoming file validation and dataset normalization.  • Provide banks with new monthly and year-over-year reports to fundamentally improve initiatives in both onboarding and maintaining customer relationships, as well as measuring what-if comparisons and cost/benefit analysis. Worked directly with the client in delivering immediate-needs reporting, one-time data pulls, and research requests in a variety of reporting formats and output files. Application Developer First Data Corporation March 2008 to November 2014 • Developed a heuristics-based audit of billing for new accounts which used both data mining and a series of adaptive queries to flag possible errors. Received a Six Sigma Green Belt for Process Improvement for saving the company and its clients over $500,000 annually.  • Designed reporting application so that users with no scripting experience could customize and choose MS Excel reports for data fields pulled from different web-based/database-driven third-party vendor systems automatically for decision-making, archiving, and verification purposes.  • Built a series of web applications within an Oracle database framework for QA of pricing changes to identify outliers, which replaced on an entire department of manual accounting controls. This project included interactive reporting so that users could view associated problem data directly without having to write custom SQL requests to poll each entry, and a frontend so that the user to quickly reassign new hierarchies and rulesets and adapt QA routines as needed.  • Created a PHP-based web application front-end for Risk Management, which used JavaScript to screen scrape data from a third-party platform automatically, and then utilize this data to allow their team to track suspicious activity, display trending charts, and export to MS Excel for further analysis of the report detail.  • Collaborated with Account Boarding to produce an interface for automatically keying five different web-based and application-based systems, which reduced common keying mistakes and created a better merchant first impression. This system also included a database-driven analytics system which could generate real-time online reports so that management and QA could determine merchant status, as well as daily and monthly totals of accounts boarded.  • As-needed script development to automate mass maintenance requests (typically hundreds or thousands of merchants) on very short turnaround with a persistent high level of quality. Programmer/Database Analyst JT Smith & Associates, Inc November 2002 to November 2007 • Worked to create a standardized database of items for a large variety of differing data for items for many different warehouse groups. Proofing this database for potential keying errors and common mistakes which could prove costly to their business.  • Generated orders in a variety of different flat file formats for using in client-side shipping systems (oftentimes AS400 systems). Work hand-in-hand with client technology to make sure that there were no potential issues with order data.  • Created customized SQL queries and reports for clients as needed to help them analyze totals or interpret data for many subcategories, with exceptional turnaround.  • One of two employees responsible for maintenance and troubleshooting SQL Server daily-updated database of past ten years' course cases for the Champaign County, IL Circuit Clerk. Education Bachelor of Science in History & Radio/TV Production Murray State University May 2001 Skills SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, POSTGRES, SQL, C#, C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, PERL, PHP, VB.NET, AJAX, ASP, CSS, JAVA, jQuery, LUA, LINUX