Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Carriage Services Houston, TX Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Carriage Services - Houston, TX September 2016 to Present Serve as senior software engineer for multiple development projects. Analyze requirements and identify optimal solutions to achieve goals. Mentor and lead junior software engineers using pair programming approach to resolve complex problems.  Key Projects & Contributions:  * Implemented REST-based API with AutoMapper and Json.NET to integrate company ERP and external vendor systems, saving $2M annually by eliminating licensing costs.  * Designed ETL process to move data between internal CRM system and external customer system using SAML-based authentication, removing the need for manual intervention. Senior Software Engineer National Oilwell Varco - Houston, TX September 2013 to September 2016 Developed a broad range of solutions to address business needs and improve performance. Collaborated effectively with cross-functional team members to deliver high-quality software applications and components.  Key Projects & Contributions:  * Instrumental to winning new contract by creating single sign-on integration for 130 globally dispersed locations.  * Contributed to increased user productivity, improved timeliness of KPI tracking, and streamlined reporting by creating web and mobile UI components to enable KPI tracking in graphical format (C#, ASP.NET MVC, JavaScript, Knockout.js, jQuery) and reporting UI allowing users to select from among 400 KPIs and time ranges (C#, ASP.NET MVC, JavaScript, HTML5).  * Developed numerous key components for BI application to using Entity Framework, ASP.NET Web parts, and C# to optimize cost control.  * Designed software applications to perform real-time monitoring and real-time plotting of KPIs using Oxy Plot, Dapper-dot-net ORM, and WinForms.  * Played key role in enhancing asset management system in collaboration with team of two software resources and two electrical engineers, serving as software lead/architect and informal project manager developing WCF middleware service, MVC front end, and Rubee-capable hardware, as well as designing architecture enabling interaction of any platform with Ru Bee scanning hardware over HTTPS. Senior .NET Developer SNC Lavalin - Houston, TX March 2008 to September 2013 Managed ASP.NET and AJAX application development through entire SDLC, including requirements development, design, and implementation of application architecture. Provided ongoing support and maintenance to ensure optimal performance. Used Balsamiq to create storyboards and mockups.  Key Projects & Contributions:  * Developed solutions to improve data management and analysis, including implementing jQuery plugins (datagrid, autocomplete, and treeview), extension methods in middle tier to encapsulate temporal nature of data and convert to Excel format, numerous graphical charts using RDLC and Microsoft charting tools, and SQL 2008 full text search.  * Used BI temporal approaches to develop database history to introduce prior period adjustment and auditing capabilities.  * Other key projects include developing Active Directory role provider component, deploying TFS 2008 with Team System Web Access, and implementing nightly development build to allow power users to preview work in progress. Senior .NET Developer Independent Contracts - Houston, TX April 2006 to February 2008 Contracted with major companies to develop solutions using ASP.NET and C# aligned with strict requirements and standards.  Key Projects & Contributions:  * General Dynamics Information Technology (GDIT): Developed and maintained ASP.NET and C# applications hosted on classified and unclassified networks for military client. Automated application deployment, as well as data gathering and maintenance process.  * Booz Allen Hamilton: Developed numerous solutions for military client, including C#.NET demo project, data migration tool to move unstructured data to electronics records depository using C#/TRIM, core CMS framework and library service for record check in/out, workflow information system and document manager using C#, UML sequence diagrams in UML, and use cases in Enterprise Architect. Integrated repository with front end solution to allow users to search/view data via web. .NET Web Developer CACI 2004 to 2006 and Applications Systems Analyst with LoGiKZ (2002-2004). Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Houston - Houston, TX Skills AJAX, ASP, ASP.NET, .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, Javascript Links http://linkedin.com/in/anthony-nguyen-42a421b Additional Information Core Competencies:  ? Full Stack Application Development  ? Object-Oriented Programming  ? Agile Methodology, Scrum/Kanban  ? Architectural Design Patterns    ? Software Development Life Cycle  ? User Interface Design & Development  ? Database Management & Integration  ? Team Leadership & Mentoring    Technical Proficiencies  Languages: C#, JavaScript, T-SQL  .NET Technologies: .NET 3.5/4.0, ASP.NET Web Forms, MVC, AJAX, jQuery, Regex, JSON, XML, WCF, LINQ to SQL, Entity Framework, Dapper-dot-net, WebAPI, SAML  Tools:  Knockout.js, Handlebars, jQuery UI, Dynatree, Bootstrap, Telerik UI, JavaScript Data Tables, Visual Studio 2010/2012/2013, Subversion/Tortoise, Team Foundation Server, SourceTree/GIT, DevExpress, Log4net, Json.NET, EPPlus, Expresso, SketchPath, AttributeRouting, ReSharper, .NET Reflector, SQL Complete, SQL Prompt, Ninject Dependency Injection, JIRA, OxyPlot, AutoMapper.NET, Moq Unit Testing, Apex SQL, Postman    Databases: Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle