Sr. NodeJS Developer Sr. NodeJS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. NodeJS Developer - Novartis Chicago, IL Over 11+ Years of IT Experience as an NodeJS Developer with the core areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Maintenance of application. Extensive exposure in end-to-end development of software products.    • Experience with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.JS, EXT.JS, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, EmberJS, BootstrapJS, RequireJs, D3.JS, etc.  • Utilised Node.js, Socket.io, Redis, Supervisor, Grunt, Yeoman, and Angular for scalable  website architecture and realtime technology.  • Comfortable working with MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular, NodeJS) stack.  • Developed crypto rest services using NodeJS and integrated services with HSM (Hardware Security Module).  • Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Worked with npm commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of node js applications.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST for implementing SOA.  • Worked with NoSQL database Mongo DB and worked with it to perform many different operations.  • Used Cassandra for achieving de-normalization through features like collections.  • Developed unit tests with JUNIT and Mockito. Write automated regression tests using JMeter.  • Developed build tasks to run the unit tests on Jenkins and maintaining separate build in Maven for the module for easy integration to the portal build and configure with Jenkins.  • Wrote Jasmine unit tests using Karma to verify AngularJS modules and JavaScript utility routines.  • Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junit, Cucumber.  • Message broker services are achieved in the application using Active MQ with JMS framework. Work Experience Sr. NodeJS Developer Novartis - New York, NY May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Integration of user-facing elements developed by front-end developers with server side logic in node js.  • Working with Node.js as web server created a highly scalable server, creating non-blocking functions.  • Developing Node.js Middleware framework like Express.js, essentially developing micro services and serve them through middleware. Serving Client side libraries through micro service.  • Using Express Framework to set up middleware to respond to the HTTP requests with the help of Node JS.  • Involved in creating and configuring the clusters in production environment and deploying the applications on clusters.  • Configured and managed Linux servers, including bind DNS server, cacti server and squid proxy server.  • Used JQuery for callbacks, promises and event based functions.  • Implemented mock services in Node.JS with the help of modules using ExpressJS.  • Developed and architected an improved single-page application using Backbone.js. and existing REST API.  • Wrote several microservices to accomplish different tasks using spring boot and JAVA.  • Utilized Apollo GraphQL to interact with APIs and render user data.  • Managed configuration of WebApp and Deploy to AWS cloud server through Chef.  • Full stack web development with Node.js, Koa.js, Angular, AJAX, and MongoDB.  • Knowledge on Electrode Platform which is a NodeJS/Web platform built on top of the ReactJS and HapiJS frameworks.  • Worked with ReactJS, Redux, JavaScript (ES6, ES7+ES8) for building isomorphic applications.  • Designed and developed a 3D visualization and modeling app in HTML5 + WebGL.  • Experience in JAVA HTML, HTML5, XHTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS, ReactJS, BackboneJS, AJAX and JSON.  • Wrote many KSH /Perl scripts for data extraction from XML messages and loading data into the database.  • Design and implement Decision Tree Support system by using Java, JavaScript, Spring, Hibernate, Primefaces, Jquery.  • Created APIs that our team consumed for a Madden feature, MYSQL backend with Java Playframework endpoints.  • Experience in providing integration services using technologies such as API Implementation using Postman and also using Visual Studio which includes Node.js.  • Installed and add server instance node.js(npm) plugin to intellij to run the app on the local instance.  • Worked on JUnit with selenium and cucumber.  • Actively contributed throughout the scrum/agile process in daily standups, functional and technical grooming sessions.  • Worked on CI/CD integration and development using Jenkins and TeamCity.  • Deployed the application on Linux server in testing and production environments.    Environment: NodeJS, Clusters, Proxy Server, Promises, ExpressJS, Rest, Microservices, GraphQL, Apollo, AWS, KOAJS, HapiJS, ReactJS, Angualr, ES6, ES7, ES8, Javascript, CSS, HTML5, JSON, XML, Ajax, Java, Spring, Hibernate, MySQL, PostgreSQL Sr. NodeJS Developer Bank of America - Chicago, IL October 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed Web Applications using the MEAN Stack with MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS, NodeJS.  • Working with JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Working with node-rest-client module which Allows connecting to any API REST and get results as js Object.  • Working with node-api-transformer Node.js library for Move Inc to transform one API's request/response into another format, which is used to setup efficient transformations by defining a mapping.  • Implemented a Restful API server with Nodejs and Express.  • Created AWS CodePipeline to deploy Docker containers in AWS ECS using services like CloudFormation, CodeBuild, CodeDeploy, S3.  • Scalable asynchronous microservices and REST api's implemented on Koa.js middleware.  • Experienced in developing micro services using Node-JS, Hapi-JS.  • Developed front-end using Html, CSS, Javascript, React, Redux and Bootstrap.  • Used HTML5 functionalities such as Local Storage, Web Sockets and Canvas.  • Architected mobile application feeds using JSON to make downloads to mobile devices more efficient.  • Worked in XML style sheets for converting the Accord XMLs to valid data objects.  • Developed React Js pages, Web services calls and AJAX calls for the application.  • Developed hibernate mappings to tables using JPA annotations.  • Created sites to organize client contracts and to summarize monthly financial data using Ember.js and MySql.  • Experience in using Visual Studio by developing Desktop application, Web application, Console application.  • Extensively used NPM and Bower to manage java script dependencies.  • Implemented unit test cases using Jasmine, Mocha Chai, Selenium  • Incorporated agile methodology and SCRUM techniques to manage requirements and enhance the application.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub.  • Perform daily maintenance tasks on Linux servers, monitoring system access, managing file space and tuning the system for optimum performance.    Environment: NodeJS, ExpressJS, Rest, AWS , KOAJS, HapiJS, AngularJS, Javascript, CSS, HTML5, JSON, XML, Ajax, Java, Spring, Hibernate, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Rest, Visual Studio Sr. Backend Developer Konica Business Technologies - Minneapolis, MN October 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Apache Cordova for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript where the command line runs on Node JS.  • Implemented mock services in Node.JS with the help of modules using ExpressJS.  • Experience in Server-Side application development framework using Express.js, Oauth 2.0, Passport, token, filesystem, Event dispatcher in NodeJS.  • Worked with single thread and light weight scripting for fastest data transfer within the Node.js.  • Expertise in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications using AngularJS, Node.js along with ExpressJS.  • Designed REST APIs that allow effective and low cost application integration.  • Developed Terraform templates in AWS CLI for various resources like Auto scaling  • Front End development utilizing HTML5 Canvas CSS3, PHP and JavaScript leveraging the Bootstrap framework.  • Coding and Documenting the application from Low level Design to integration with web service using html, JSP, JQuery.EXTJS, JSON.  • Implemented various Ajax Frameworks and Javascript using jQuery, DOJO, JSON.  • Worked on NoSQL, SQL Queries using Hibernate framework with Spring ORM in interaction with the RDBMS and extensive understanding of the SDLC.  • Work in a CSS, Javascript, C#, Sitecore Environment, in Visual Studio.  • Worked on IDE's like Eclipse, Netbeans and version control tools like Mercurial, SVN and Git.  • Developing test suites in Selenium WebDriver (Java) with TestNG framework in Eclipse IDE.  • Responsible for configuring Continuous Integration Server Jenkins and SonarQube.  • Created, cloning Linux Virtual Machines.    Environment: NodeJS, ExpressJS, Rest, AWS, AngularJS, Javascript, CSS, HTML5, JSON, XML, Ajax, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle Backend Developer CapitalOne - McLean, VA March 2010 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the requirements and enhanced the application which improved maintainability, extensibility and performance.  • Worked with HTML5 and CSS element to create work flow chart with libraries and framework.  • Developed AJAX featured UI components using JQUERY that targets Spring MVC based server controllers, which returns HTTP response with JSON data or xml.  • Designed and developed a web-based catalog tool using Java, Maven, Hibernate with Annotations, MySQL, JSP, and CSS.  • Configured Struts, Hibernate framework with Spring MVC.  • Utilized Azure Devops and Github repositories in Visual Studio.  • Integrated Build Process through Jenkins to various SCM tools like Git and SVN.  • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium.  • Worked on Linux based systems administration.    Environments: Javascript, CSS, HTML5, JSON, XML, Ajax, Java, Struts, MS Sql, Rest, Soap, Visual Studio, Eclipse, SVN, PostMan, Selenium Software Developer MCI - Ashburn, VA January 2008 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • Worked on various UI technologies like JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP tag libraries.  • Used JavaScript concepts to validate input fields using regular expression.  • Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  • Used Bootstrap along with CSS to design web-pages by HTML.  • Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Worked on DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  • Tested the application under Scrum (Agile) Methodology.    Environment: Java, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, PLSQL, Oracle.    Visa Status: U.S. Citizen. Education Master's