Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - KPMG US Byron Center, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer KPMG US March 2014 to Present • Developed native mobile and web applications for clients in the entertainment, manufacturing, government, and financial markets.  • Collaborated with back-end developers to integrate, debug, and develop application services and APIs.  • Mentored junior developers to ramp up on popular front end libraries and ES6 skills.  • Built complex e2e automated test specs using Protractor to save QA hours of manual testing required for each version release.  • Worked closely with the clients on site to resolve issues/bugs during the software development process. Developer/Owner Vutronic LC 2010 to 2015 www.vutroniclc.com    • Designed and developed native iOS games and applications for the Apple store  • Released a number of games and apps in the Apple store. Multimedia Developer Raytheon Professional Services - Troy, MI 2005 to 2007 • Developed Flash/XML driven simulations of various automotive diagnostic tools for General Motors, Isuzu, and other Raytheon clients  • Collaborated with instructional designers and subject matter experts in the creation of e-learning contents such as technical illustrations, animations, and Flash educational games  • Worked on multiple projects simultaneously in a fast paced environment Education Bachelor of Science in Graphic Design/Multimedia Development Kendall College of Art & Design September 1998 Skills Angular, Front End, Javascript, UI, User Interface, React, Front-End, AWS (1 year), Jquery, HTML5, Bootstrap, React Native (1 year), Node, CSS3 Additional Information Skill Summary:    • Swift, Objective C, Core Data, JavaScript, Jquery, HTML/CSS, ES6, Node JS, d3, Angular 4.0, React, and Backbone/Marionette.  • In-depth knowledge of OOP and functional principles, responsive/adaptive. design, unit testing, e2e, and modern web application build tools.  • Familiar with the AWS platform and its cloud services.  • Excellent debugging skills.  • Solid understanding of the iOS development and distribution process.  • Strong mentoring skills.  • Passionate for learning new technologies