Assistant Vice President Assistant Vice President • A Result Oriented Professional with 12+ Years of experience in Software Development & Designing with Microsoft .Net Technology & have sound experience on AGILE, Scrum, OOAD, Test Driven Development (TDD), Extreme Programming (XP) and Pair Programming. Work Experience Assistant Vice President Suisse Services India Private Ltd July 2012 to Present Nomura Services India Private Ltd. (Ex-Lehman Brothers) Jul'08 to Jul'12 Assistant Vice President Suisse Services India Private Ltd July 2012 to Present Project Name: GSL - Security Lending and Trading Environment (SLATE)  Description  GSL framework provides several architectural archetypes for developing distributed services oriented applications. These architectural styles prescribe certain patterns suitable for our environment for developing and deploying applications rapidly. In addition to the styles and patterns, framework also provides runtime environment and design time application framework.  Securities lending is the temporary loan of a security from an institutional investor's portfolio to a broker/dealer or dealer bank to support that firm's trading activities. These trading activities include short selling, selling on margin or the satisfaction of some other type of transaction. Loaned securities are generally collateralized, reducing the lender's credit exposure to the borrower. Except for the right to vote proxies, the lender retains entitlement to all the benefits of owning the original securities, including the receipt of dividends and interest. Additionally, the lender receives a fee for the use of the securities and can reinvest the collateral. The lender, however, bears the market risk of the loaned securities. This is due to the borrower being obligated to ultimately return the securities, not the original market value of the securities, at the time the loan was made    Project Name: Equilend Applications  Equilend is a collaborative effort between EquiLend and its clients to deliver a consolidated, multi-asset class trading platform for the securities finance marketplace. Leveraging EquiLend existing trading venues and messaging capabilities, NGT will increase trade-level transparency, improve workflow automation and generate greater efficiencies for the market.  • Dynamic screen-based trading venue to manage securities financing activity and increase executions  • Consolidated user interface features real-time order book, needs and inventory broadcasting tool, new book optimizer engine and summary level trade blotter  • Ease of integration leveraging EquiLend existing infrastructure  • Increase automation of manual processes  • Streamline static data setup and maintenance  • Refined Availability capabilities  • Real-time bid/offer negotiation tool  • Migration away from traditional Auto Borrow schedules  • Supports traditional borrow-to-lender trade flows as well as broker-to-broker activity  • Extends capabilities to include pre-trade and post-Auto Borrow negotiation    Developing & Supporting various applications like - NGT, OneFile, Contract Compare, Mark To Mark Compare, Billing Compare, Settlement Compare, Auto Borrow/Return, and Process General & Targeted Availability.    Technology & Tools: C#, WinForms,.Net Framework 4.0 - Multithreading, WCF 4.0, Windows , Powershell, Services/Daemons, Jasper Report Framework, XML, XSLT, TibRV, NUnit, Moq/Rhino Mock framework, Log4Net, Agile Development Methodology using JIRA, MongoDB  Role & Responsibilities  Role: APAC Team Lead, Scrum Master, Team Size - 5  - Responsible for the Requirement Gathering, designing project architecture and technical specification document.  - Responsible for Delivering solutions, Creating Stories, Tracking Kanban Dashboard, Coding/Development Application.  - Creating the Database design using Sybase, Sql, Big Data Framework (using Mongo DB).  - Managing the smooth project release by co-coordinating various teams across the different region, Release Notes & configuration documentations, Pre/Post Release checkouts.  - Coding, Bug Fixing, Code Review and overall application support  - Follow the Test Driven Development by Create the Unit Test Cases using NUnit, Moq/Rhino Moq Framework and perform the Integration Testing.  - Provides the reports to business using Jasper Report Framework. Software Analyst (Senior Developer) Nomura Services India Private Ltd July 2008 to July 2012 Project Name: DASH (Derivatives And Securities Hub/Client Valuations)  Technology & Tools: C#/ASP.Net 2.0, SQL Server 2005, Crystal Reports 8, XML, XSLT, Win Forms, WCF, TibRV, NUnit, Log4Net, Excel DNA, Agile Development Methodology.  Description  DASH - Client Valuations is a service to the clients that reports NPV of client positions with Nomura, across asset classes along with pricing information for client defined instruments. This platform aggregates valuations across multiple asset classes - Equities, Fixed Income, FX, Futures & Options etc and distributes them to the multiple clients across the globe, via different channels (Email, fax, FTP). Project consists of 6 diff applications.    - Website- DASH Website for global CV Operations users to support clients to deliver valuation statements  - Data Loader - C# Win App (Multithreading) to load all the feeds into DASH repository dynamically on scheduled time.  - Data Manager - C# Win App (Multithreading) to generate details for valuation statements and notify traders to provide  - PDF Creator - DASH C# Windows app to generate valuations reports for distribution via Fax and or email by MO users  - Web Service - DASH provides Web service interface for providing non-inventory prices by traders.  - Excel Add-In - DASH built-in Excel AddIn for traders to provide non-inventory prices.    Role & Responsibilities  Role: Lead Developer Team Size: 3  Responsibilities: As a Lead Developer, my responsibilities consist of  -Complete UI Design, Database Design & Coding/Development of Critical modules of an application using multithreading.  - Requirement Gathering & Provide Trainings to Business users across regions.  - Responsible for the complete project architecture and technical specification document.  - Responsible for Designing the Class Structure, Business flows, Activities and the Database schema.  - Provides Release Notes & configuration documentations.  - Coding, Bug Fixing and overall application support across the regions (24*7).  - Generated various reports using Crystal Reports.  - Worked on Change Request & Part of Unit Testing, - Involved in query optimization for application data.    Project Name: Ashura - Repo Management System.  Technology & Tools: C#.Net, ASP .Net 2.0, Web Services, SQL Server 2005, Timesten, XML, XSLT, .Net WinForms  Description  Ashura is a candidate security selection system for the repo trades. To fulfill the cash needs, a Repo trader can pledge the securities as collateral to the external financial agency (BOJ, Nomura Trust Bank and Clients in this case). Ashura provides an easy interface for the users to select best combination of pledgeable securities from the available securities.  Role & Responsibilities  Role: Developer Team Size -5  - Responsible for UI Design, Database design & Coding/Development Application.  - Responsible for the designing project architecture and technical specification document.  - Coding, Bug Fixing and overall application support    Project Name: FID Support Web Portal  Technology & Tools: C#.Net, ASP .Net 2.0, SQL Server 2005, XML, XSLT, .Net WinForms  Description  Website includes all functionalities provided for FID-Support such as all kind of Reporting level, Server Status, Environment Details, Currents Server Disk utilization details, Contact Details & other useful information which would require in case of High level of Escalation for FID Support. Provide important functionality such as Email Facility which sends daily status report of every server supported by FID Support Team in India.    Role & Responsibilities  Role: Developer Team Size -3  - Responsible for interacting with the user, understanding the user's requirement  - Responsible for complete UI Design, Database design & Coding/Development of whole Application.  - Responsible for the complete project architecture and technical specification document.  - Created website for FID support from scratch.  - Delivered the project in time. Quinnox Consultancy Service Ltd January 2007 to July 2008 Software Developer Quinnox Consultancy Service Ltd January 2007 to July 2008 worked as Consultant from A.G.Technologies for first 6 months.    Project Name: TIX - The Insolvency Exchange. (TDX, UK)  Description: The Insolvency Exchange (TIX) provides all the benefits of a central exchange to the IVA process - automation, standards, improved efficiencies and increased returns and, above all, increased control and certainty for all parties involved. The service processes Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) proposals received by creditors from Insolvency Practitioners (IP), analytically decides which proposals to accept and then manages each IVA through the 5 year term of the arrangement.    Project Name: GMIS - GLT Management Information System. (HSBC, India)  Description: HSBC Software Development India Pvt. Ltd. is the client of Quinnox. A Completely configurable product that will provide a complete solution to manage IT services teams. This Project contains All Resource wise Project details. Maintenance of All Masters like Resource, Project, Building, Technology, Skill Department, Group, Entity, Sub Entity etc. And all type of Transaction like Visa, Passport, Onsite Details, Borrow Resource from One Project to another Project and Reports.  Technology & Tools Used Master of Science in Information Technology July 2005 to December 2006 DISCIPLINARY PROFILE - M.Sc. IT - Master of Science in Information Technology Software Developer Master of Science in Information Technology July 2005 to December 2006 Project Name: SOCCCD Personnel Management System  Description: This Assignment includes migration of SOCCCD (South Orange County Community College District) Legacy Application which is Power House Design to .Net 2.0 platform using Renaissance Architect developed by CORE Migration. This Includes migration of Personnel, Payroll & Budged Application.    Project Name: Smart Diamond Process Management System (DPMS)  Description: Smart DPMS is software solution for diamond process Industry. It maintains each stage of diamond process from raw material (rough) purchase to Shipping For sale. This solution divides in four departments Planning, Factory, Quality Checking and Polishing with also classified more than one factory (Location). It barcode base and department classified system so it minimize entry with Forwarding information and maximize result.  Technology & Tools Used  C#.Net/VB.Net, ASP .Net 2.0, Window Service, Web Service, SQL Server 2000, DevExpress Controls Toolkit  Role & Responsibilities  Role: Software Developer  Team Size: 2  Responsibilities:  - Complete UI Deign, Database Design & Coding/Development of Critical modules of an application.  - Analysis of existing solution for previous phase, raise regarding queries and discussed those with client.  - Synchronized the old web database to the new web database.  - Converted whole application into web based application using Microsoft .Net  - Responsible for the complete project architecture and technical specification document.  - Responsible for Designing the Class Structure, Business flows, Activities and the Database schema.  - Coding, Bug Fixing and overall application support. Persuade Distinction - Surat, Gujarat, IN July 2001 to June 2005 Module Lead Cruise Control, NUnit, Agile 2005 to 2005 development Methodology, Infragistics controls  Role & Responsibilities  Role: Module Lead  Team Size: 4  Responsibilities:  - Complete UI Design, Database Design & Coding/Development of Critical modules of an application.  - Responsible for Designing the Class Structure, Business flows, Activities and the Database schema.  - Coding, Bug Fixing and overall application support.  - Generated various reports using SQL Server Reporting Services 2005.  - Worked on Change Request & Part of Unit Testing.  - Involved in query optimization for application data. Education Master's Additional Information • Key Skills: C#, WCF, ASP.NET, Web/Windows Services, Agile Methodology and working practices, Sybase, SQL Server, Hands on WPF, Various Source Control, Automated Deployment & Testing Tools, TeamCity Integration, Sonar, CAST, Moq Framework, NUnit, Reporting Framework.    • Savvy Programmer having expertise in Design, Architect, Implementing, Troubleshooting & Delivering diverse range of financial applications using Microsoft .Net technologies, Design Patterns & software development cycle like SDLC & Agile/Scrum Methodology. Successful track record of delivering working software quickly and improving it iteratively.