Engineer Engineer Engineer - Micron Semiconductor Asia Pte Ltd US Willing to learn new skills and knowledge in order to perform better and always prepare to face challenges. Patient in analysis process and prefer to complete task before deadline. Focus to customer requirements and will dive in to look for the root cause. Work Experience Engineer Micron Semiconductor Asia Pte Ltd August 2017 to Present • Creates Lost Move Report using SSRS  ? Impact: Lost moves per day for each area per site can be viewed at one glance and easier for lost moves calculation. Collaboration of team is important to make sure that the data input to database was accurate before report can be displayed.  • Backend ELK Projects in progress  ? Impact: Use ELK charts to show the health of the applications and reduce time used for troubleshooting process. Collaborates with other Micron team members such as DBA, Backend Automation Host Team and so on to work on the ELK charts for various applications.  • Create new SECSGEM command JTS machine  ? Impact: New map used was more accurate if compare with other map as the new map was the final testing result. In order to add the new map in the service, will need to collaborate with vendor to modify the logic of the machine software. Collaborate with users from all the Micron Backend sites to run through the testing for different models of machine to make sure that everything was working fine.  • Involved in new machines setup for different Backend sites  ? Impact: User not able to perform operation with the new machines if required services were not being setup. Helped to troubleshoot if there was any issue occurred after services being setup so that the machine can be released to production as soon as possible.  • Troubleshooting Sigma and Space related issues  ? Impact: Troubleshoot the issues reported by user to find out the root cause to prevent the same issue from reoccurring.  • Involved in Stargate upgrade project  ? Impact: Collaborate with L3 to upgrade the Stargate from 2.0 to 3.0. This project will include the change in the current architecture of the Stargate to improve the performance of the Stargate reporting.  • Troubleshoot when user from Test area reported that ET state does not change automatically  ? Impact: ET state will not log correctly if there is missing configuration for new machine or user did not setup correctly. Operations will be interrupted when this issue happens.    • Perform volume migration  ? Impact: Collaborate with storage team to complete volume migration successfully by minimize the impact which users might experience from the client applications when volume is unavailable.    • Troubleshoot missing 2DID information.  ? Impact: Collaborate with SME from different teams to understand the root cause of the issue so that user wont encounter missing 2DID information. Operations will be interrupted if the issue unable to resolve.    • Troubleshoot the Space eCap missing steps issue  ? Impact: User not able to capture the violation in time and unable to apply proper measures on it. Issue not resolved after restarting the services and unable to reach the L3 due to holidays. Found the root cause is due to server's performance issue.    • Troubleshoot on memory leak issue  ? Impact: Operations will be interrupted when server's memory ran out of resources. Will need to check through the code to determine where can be improved to minimize the memory leak issue.    • Troubleshoot on object reference error when try to send message to services.  ? Impact: No operations able to be performed as services will reply error for any message received and thus no action able to proceed further.    • Perform OJT Verification flow change to remove dependency of database across WAN and suite for different scenarios used across sites  ? Impact: Operations stopped when there is database blocking. Besides, OJT Verification only can be done in SINGAPORE. Will need to be modified so that all sites able to apply similar concept without new cost added.    • Create a self-healing service  ? Impact: Services able to auto recover without manual intervention whenever having issue connecting to database. This will help user to resume operations in short timings.  • Backfill Space data through MTSpace service  ? Impact: Affect the products' quality if unable to view the data in Space charts. Script has been written to backfill the data in faster way rather than do it manually.  • Perform bug fix on website  ? Impact: Data integrity issue arise if issue persisted as wrong username is saved during add / modify data. Wrong username was encountered when multiple users login at the same time.    • Work on project to establish communication between services and new machines  ? Impact: New machine will have new events and reports which complies to GEM300 so that automation can be enabled in the future. Without the proper defined of SECS messages, machine will not able to function properly. Will need to collaborate with vendor from foreign country to make sure that the communication between machine and services are established successfully within 1 month before vendor leaves Singapore. Software Developer MYwave Sdn. Bhd November 2016 to August 2017 Enhance the system by sending notification to inform respective persons about employees' whose age has reached the age of retirement on following month after user turns on the notification.  ? Impact: This reduce the workload of user and save the user's time as user will not need to check every employee's age and calculate when the employee will reach the age of retirement. User may miss out few employees whose age reaches the age of retirement. So, the notification sent will attach an excel file in which the excel file will contain a list of employees whose age reaches age of retirement and the birthday date of the employee.  • Fixing the errors occurred on the web application.  • As a tester to test the features developed by colleagues.  • Enhance the system by generating leave summary report and leave detail report to allow the user to check on the balance of leave at the end of period, number of leave being carry forward or going to be forfeited and so on.  ? Impact: By having this feature, user will know how will the balance of leave being calculated and dates of the leave being applied, approved or rejected. User also can check on the accuracy of the leave balance, filter the reports based on employee, supervisor, leave types and so on. This prevents the user to spend time to find out the evidence to prove to the employee that the leave balance is correct if employee has any doubt about the leave balance.  • Enhance the system by allow the user to choose the job class for every employee.  ? Impact: By having this feature, the user able to group the employees of different job levels to specific class. For example, the employees who is assigned as Exempt of Level 1 or 2 or 3 can be grouped into a specific class which is known as Exempt. User will not have to spend time to group the employees into specific class after download the report from the system.    • Enhance the system by adding the interface for user to manage the job class and the worker type through setup page.  ? Impact: By having this interface, the user does not need to choose an employee's information before the user able to manage the job class and worker type of the system. This makes the system more user friendly and save the user's time to search through the available modules in the system in order to manage the job class or worker type. User also can determine which worker type will need to fill in the end date and contract company for job information. This feature is important as different company will have different setting which is hard to predict. Software Developer MYwave Sdn. Bhd October 2015 to October 2016 Fixing the errors occurred on the web application.  • Enhance the system to allow user to upload attachment but the maximum of number of files is controlled by the system and the user can preview the attachment uploaded before save to the system.  ? Impact: By having this function, user can attach some important documents for each employee. This will prevent user to spend time on searching the employee's documents for viewing purpose as the user can view it through the system or download it from the system.  • Enhance the system by allowing the user to manage the resign reasons.  ? User can choose to fill in the resign reason of employee by text or select the resign reason from drop down or both.  ? User can determine whether the resign reason is a compulsory field to fill in or not if there is resign date being filled for employee.  ? User can decide whether to turn on or turn off the resign reason field.  ? User also can change the resign reason in the drop down.  ? Impact: Without this feature, the user must fill the resign reason if there is resign date being filled. This is very troublesome to user as some company may not want to fill the resign reason for employee but the system insists the user to fill the resign reason. User also feel very inconvenient as the user will have to type in same resign reason for many time if there is no drop down. Software Developer MYwave Sdn. Bhd February 2015 to July 2015 Enhance the system by auto generating web-based reports based on the user-defined transaction type in payroll report.  ? User can create new customize transaction type in the payroll report rather than just having system-defined transaction types such as allowance, deduction and overtime.  ? Each transaction type will have its own report and all the user-defined and system-defined transaction types will be showed in the payroll calculation report.  • Enhance the system by allowing the user to approve, reject or delete the pay slip and generate report for every transaction based on the transaction type chose.  ? Status of the pay slip will be shown.  ? Impact: This save user's time as user can approve, reject or delete the pay slip anytime rather than the user need to call to the support team to check on status of pay slip if pay slip is not shown and ask support team to help to approve, reject or delete the pay slip. User also can check on the amount of each transaction easily after select the transaction type to make sure that the amount is accurate before user approve, reject or delete the pay slip. This makes the user more convenient on checking the data.  • Enhance the system by adding a new feature which allows user to restore the formula code used for payroll calculation that accidentally deleted and apply the template for base code and formula code that support team has helped to create into payroll calculation.    ? Impact: This feature makes user's operation become user friendly as the user may not understand how the payroll calculation formula being set up in the system. When user accidently deleted some important formula, then the payroll processing cannot be done and user will have to call to support team and required additional time to wait for support team to analysis the root cause. By having this function, user is able to restore the formula through the system. The formula is configurable in a template format and capable to be integrated with the system.  • Enhance the system by splitting the work permit and visa information.  ? Work permit and visa information will not be mixed together such as the textbox for application fee is shared among visa and work permit, same textbox is used for placing the date of issue of visa or work permit and so on.    ? Show number of times updated and the number of days left to renew passport, work permit and visa.  ? Impact: Avoid confusion when user is entering the work permit or visa information. User also can choose to fill in both visa and work permit information for 1 employee rather than just fill in work permit or visa information. Important information that must be filled for work permit or visa information can be distinguished clearly. Number of days before the expiry date of passport, work permit and visa will be shown which save the time of user from calculating the number of days left before the passport, work permit and visa expired.  • Enhance the system by generate the dependent's relationship type drop down based on user-defined relationship and system pre-defined relationship.  ? No duplicate relationship type can be inserted into the drop down.  ? Impact: The system is more user friendly as user can manage the relationship types displayed for selection in dependent's information.  • Enhance the system by adding a new feature which allow the user to view on the salary history of employee and export the salary history of the employee in excel file.  ? Impact: By having this feature, user can trace the date where the increment or decrement on salary of employee occurred. This will save the user's time from waiting the support team to help to retrieve the history record of particular employee and eliminate the leaking of sensitive information of employee.    • Enhance the system by adding a new feature to allow the user to set the employee information such as the bank information, salary calculation method and so on.    ? Impact: This feature makes the system become more user friendly as user can change the employer information anytime rather than calling the support team to help to modify the information such as typo error on the name. User can easily check the employer information to verify that the employer information is set up correctly as this will affect the payroll process such as the wrong account number of employer set will result in the employer not able pay the salary to employee.  • Enhance the system by modifying the text field of bank name into drop down and display the bank name in drop down based on the country of the company.  ? Acronym and swift code will be auto generated after user selects the bank name.  ? Impact: This eliminates the typo errors when user input the bank name, acronym and swift code of bank. This will eliminate any severe problems that might be faced by user due to the typo errors in the bank name, acronym and swift code.  • Fixing the errors occurred on the web application. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Distributed System and Security Universiti Sains Malaysia - Penang, MY September 2012 to August 2016 Skills MICROSOFT SSRS (1 year), SSRS (1 year), SQL (1 year), .NET (Less than 1 year), CODING (Less than 1 year) Additional Information • Git, TFS (Team Foundation Server) and SVN for version controlling  • Powershell script to install services  • Microsoft Visual Studio for coding  • Microsoft SSRS for reporting  • Elasticsearch for create troubleshooting chart  • Tableau for reporting  • MS SQL Server    Notice Period: 1 month    Reason of Leaving: Would like to have more coding tasks