Senior Project Lead Senior Project Lead Senior Project Lead - The College of Saint Rose Bedford, NH Professional Overview: I am detail oriented, highly motivated, with strong problem solving skill. I have 15 years of software engineering and 7+ years of experience leading teams and projects.     Career Objectives: Maximize my team leading experience in a challenging environment, guiding by example and utilizing my vast experience in defining attainable and realistic goals and objectives. Provide team support and utilize member skillsets to match objectives, promoting team collaboration and providing individual and team acknowledgement in achieving goals.     Software Engineering Skills: Expert with UNIX/Linux, Database – Oracle RDBMS, SQL query language, PL/SQL, programming with C/C++, Shell Scripting (sh, csh, ksh), HTML, CSS, X Windows System, X Toolkit, Xlib, TCP/IP, Software Revision tools such as SVN, GIT, SCCS, RCS, ODE, DSEE, Makefiles, builds/config, debuggers dbx and gdb.     Application skills: Proficient user UNIX, MS Windows; UNIX file editors – ed, vi, emacs, Linux, Cygwin, Putty, Toad for Oracle, Ellucian Banner 8 & 9, Evisions Argos, NolijWeb & dataTransfer, Salesforce, TargetX, Tableau, WordPress, trac, wiki, InteliJ IDEA, Grails, Visual Studio, MS Office (Word, Excel and PowerPoint, Outlook). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Project Lead The College of Saint Rose - Albany, NY March 2012 to Present Senior Project Lead  As Senior Project Lead for IT Applications Services:  ·  Guide team on best practices of software design, development and release.   ·   Act as a bridge between the Application Services group and end user departments. Work collaboratively with a team of dedicated IT professionals.   ·   Manage projects, prioritize tasks and maintain lines of communication.  ·   Design and maintain assigned projects utilizing the appropriate application tools.   ·   Engage end user groups to build and maintain documentation and workflow for day to day tasks.   ·   Collaborate with end users on training for Ellucian Banner and related third party systems to streamline processes and increase efficiency.    ·   Interface with the user community in the extraction and retrieval of required information. Create functional design specifications based on user needs and work closely with users to understand and manage expectations.   As a Team Member in IT Applications Services:  ·  Develop, test, deploy, and support applications related to student information in Oracle database using toad interface and SQL.   ·  Develop and support existing PL/SQL Packages, Functions.   ·  Support of .net, and c# web based solutions.  ·  Work with vendor technical support to resolve third party application issues, such as Salesforce, TargetX, Guardian, and Medicat.  ·   Administrative support and programming for dataTransfer and Nolijweb.  ·   Resolve customer issues, exhibiting positive customer service experience. Software Developer SGS Testcom - New York, NY September 2010 to December 2011 Project involved in vehicle inspections in State managed databases. Utilized C++ on Linux.  Made code changes based on state contract requirements. Responsible for build and release of Vehicle Inspection Applications and deployment to dedicated test system. Investigated and  resolved QA and Customer issues. Researched and investigated Proof of Concept for automated  Testing, implemented shell scripts to automate. Principal Software Engineer Hewlett Packard November 1996 to November 2002 Hardware Support, responsible for delivery of system level programming for graphics drivers for UNIX operating system, examples  • Investigated and resolved problems reported for graphics drivers.  • Merged code snapshot and final release changes for distribution into latest UNIX  operating system, requiring local builds and testing prior to submission.  • Collaborated with Xserver and OS teams relating to device driver modifications,  including usb keyboards, and responsible for existing supported keyboards, and pointer  devices (mice).  The UNIX X11 Server development team responsible for development and maintenance of the UNIX X11 server.  • Provided leadership to UNIX Xserver team.  • Merged code snapshot and final release changes from XConsortium X11R6.3 into major  release code base.  • Final code delivery of the Xserver extension, PanoramiX* to X Consortium. Presented  implementation to X Consortium for code contribution. Hewlett Packard - Nashua, NH November 1991 to November 2002 Senior Software Engineer Hewlett Packard August 1993 to November 1996 X11 Server Team project examples:  • Cross organizational product development, providing a developers source kit for writing  device drivers and Xserver device dependent components. This involved working with the device driver team, documentation, product marketing, legal department and packaging.  Directly responsible for work coordination, Xserver documentation input and review, kit  verification and on time delivery of the kit.  Contribution to Software Industry:  • Lead project for the PanoramiX extension. Work involved implementation, testing, and kit  production of the PanoramiX extension ADK. Published technical paper in Issue 16 of "The  X Resource" by O'Reilly & Associates.    PanoramiX extension is an original DEC solution for a multiheaded, single root window, Xserver  extensions. AKA., Xinerama  Bedford, New Hampshire, 03110  mtsjeafb@gmail.com  (518) 570-6619 Senior Software Engineer Hewlett Packard - Hudson, NH November 1991 to August 1993 Hired for CASE expertise to lead use of ODE in the new project development of 64bit Digital  UNIX. Porting of ODE software on systems in early development of the operating system and giving direction to Release Engineers for builds. Work ~~~~~ in specialized tool space. Software Engineer Apollo Corporation - Chelmsford, MA May 1989 to October 1991 Software Engineer GTE Government Systems - Billerica, MA January 1988 to May 1989 Secret Clearance)  Computer Aided Software Engineering (CASE) Development Team Software Engineer Grumman Aerospace Corporation - Melville, NY August 1986 to January 1988 CADD Group Education BSCS in Digital UNIX Support Engineering Group University Center - New York, NY Additional Information Application skills: Proficient user UNIX, MS Windows; UNIX file editors - ed, vi, emacs,  Linux, Cygwin, Putty, Toad for Oracle, Ellucian Banner 8 & 9, Evisions Argos, NolijWeb &  dataTransfer, Salesforce, TargetX, Tableau, WordPress, trac, wiki, InteliJ IDEA, Grails, Visual  Studio, MS Office (Word, Excel and PowerPoint, Outlook).