Senior C++ Developer Senior C++ <span class="hl">Developer</span> Austin, TX ? Experienced (about 14 years) C/C++ developer who is comfortable in both lead and subordinate roles.  ? Proficiency in C-Sharp, networking in a multi-threaded environment for both Windows and Linux, cmake, jenkins build tools.  ? Hands on Experience in app development for mobile platforms (Swift iOS, and Android).  ? Conversant with 3D graphics programming (DirectX, OpenGL, Unity), Python and embedded programming.  ? Excellent documentation and project tracking skills (SCRUM, JIRA, Confluence, Fisheye crucible, GIT, SVN, Perforce, Bamboo).  ? Does not require Visa sponsorship. Work Experience Senior C++ Developer Mobile Game Development, Aristocrat Technologies January 2015 to Present Currently working on mobile slot game development for iOS, Android platform. The games are being developed in C++, windows environment and ported to various mobile platforms through build tool chains with Unity as a host. Have had hands on experience with iOS, android debuggers. Created common libraries/frameworks to create game engine. Written C-Sharp scripts to run the game in Unity3D environment. Implemented various GUI tools to test and develop games faster. Mentored junior developers and guided them to develop and release games faster. Participated in company’s innovation programs, designed and developed Augmented/Virtual Reality slot prototypes for the company and won awards for the same Software Team Lead Bally Technologies/SHFL Entertainment January 2013 to December 2014 Worked in Slot Game Development as a Lead Software Engineer. I was leading a team of 5 engineers and 2 testers and oversaw development of 6 successful games. All the games were written in C++ environment under Linux OS. Exposed myself to various digital visual effects and motion graphics composting tools like After Effects, Illustrator, photo shop etc., Coordinated with game artists, designers and project managers to speed up the development process. I have also conducted several meetings and demos on the game design with game producers and clients.   Bally Technologies/SHFL Entertainment - Las Vegas, NV January 2006 to December 2014 Game Engine Developer Bally Technologies/SHFL Entertainment November 2006 to January 2013 Responsible for developing digital casino games such as poker, BlackJack games on electronic machines. Solely responsible for developing TCP/IP based networking systems using windows sockets in a multithreaded environment. Have had hands on experience with windows embedded, and DirectX shader programming languages as well. Skills developed: C, C++, VC++, MFC, .net, windows 7 embedded DirectX, FX Shaders, FFmpeg. Embedded Firmware Developer Young Electric Sign Company May 2004 to October 2006 Developed software for low level RTOS based embedded system, specifically Motorola Coldfire processor. The IC board bearing the processor is responsible for displaying MPEG videos, animations, and graphical images on LED electronic signs. The design resulted in replacing PC based sign controller by low cost embedded controller. The whole programming was done in C/C++ in multitasking environment and interfaced to hardware. Designed circuit boards containing sensors, DAQ and RTC, used mainly for optimizing display brightness based on ambient light and temperature. Skills developed: MicroC, C/C++, C-Sharp, RTOS, TCP/IP protocol, serial protocol, HTML programming, assembly level coding, and developing software driver. Research Intern Los Alamos National Lab June 2003 to December 2003 Worked as an intern and assisted a research team to develop instrumentation for an experimental setup to study sensor characteristics used in nuclear reactors. Job responsibilities included setting up and conducting the experiment, programming the laboratory equipment and processing sensor data. Skills Developed: LabView Software, Team Coordination. Software Engineer Newgen Software Technologies May 2000 to July 2001 Worked in a Citibank project called Document Tracking System (DTS). Developed Visual Basic front end pages through ODBC connectivity and Oracle queries to fetch customer documents and associated images from remote databases, to process data and store them back in the corresponding databases. Designed ASP based web pages for Citibank front office. Skills developed: Oracle SQL, Visual Basic, ASP. Education Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engg University of Nevada - Las Vegas, NV Bachelor of Engg in Electrical and Electronics Gov't College of Tech Skills assembly (2 years), C+ (10+ years), DirectX (6 years), MFC (6 years), windows 7 (6 years), C, Linux, Python Certifications/Licenses Driver's License