Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Santanna Energy Services Georgetown, TX Work Experience Software Developer Santanna Energy Services - Austin, TX July 2017 to Present • Created and maintain a SQL based EDI import/export for customer files from ESG (Energy Services Group).   • Team and individual projects to add to or update existing SQL and web applications.   • Maintain and enhance Microsoft ASP.NET MVC and C# web applications  • Team project to create Web API calls to third party web document merging and printing  • Created an application to send letters to customers. Pulls template from WebMerge, creates a PDF, downloads to cloud storage and upload to offsite printer  • Created SQL scripts to migrate current database data to new software platform Senior Software Engineer THE BOON GROUP July 2016 to June 2017 Maintain ASP .NET C# web applications for healthcare claims, enrollments and benefits  ? Maintain and create .NET C# EDI file processes  ? Maintain and create .NET C# Web APIs  ? Rewrite and create SQL stored procedures for MS SQL Server databases  ? Part of the team that helps maintain the developer JIRA ticket queue  ? Source control management via GIT-based Atlassian Stash Programmer Analyst FORCEPOINT June 2015 to July 2016 Added features and maintained many of the C# .NET applications that are in use at the organization  ? Part of a team that developed a C# Web API application for the new Forcepoint website  ? Implemented a new application to download and store ADP data from ADP's Web API  ? Part of the team that provided help desk ticket support for the .NET applications and Salesforce  ? Part of a team that is part of integration of hardware requests in Salesforce using Apex  ? Added features and maintained the ASP .NET MVC website (http://csi.websense.com)  ? Source control management via GIT-based Atlassian BitBucket Software Developer SANTANNA ENERGY SERVICES - Austin, TX August 2012 to June 2015 Develop and enhance internal web applications using ASP .NET Web API and C# and an in-house  developed ORM on the server side and JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS on the client side  ? Use of many JavaScript libraries such as Angular, JQuery and an in-house developed library  ? Develop console applications using C# to run background processes to import/export files and create and send emails  ? Create and maintain T-SQL stored procedures to use with web application and for reporting  ? Provide help desk support through a ticket system on software problems  ? Source control management via Microsoft Team Foundation Server Programmer RINGDALE INCORPORATED - Georgetown, TX January 2005 to August 2012 Maintain and enhance a complex internal MS SQL Server database driven ASP web application  called OrgCenter (www.orgcenter.com)  ? Developed in-house applications using Visual Studio 2008 and C#  ? Maintain a job search web site (www.maxisearch.com)  ? Maintain a Visual C++ 6.0 desktop application called QuickID/AttendID  ? Maintain a Visual C++ 6.0 desktop application called Uniport  ? Designed and programmed an online payroll system for OrgCenter Network Administrator/Web Programmer DRM INCORPORATED - Omaha, NE May 2000 to January 2005 Design and maintain Internet web site and internal Intranet site using HTML, Active Server Pages,  Microsoft Access, and PHP (www.drmarbys.com)  ? Accountable for monitoring a Windows NT network, IIS 4.0 Web Server, and Exchange Server 5.5  ? Maintain, install, and repair computer hardware and software  ? Provide help desk support for office and restaurant employees  ? Run Daily Sales Reports using Crystal Reports Education Associates Degree of Occupational Studies in Computer Programming in Occupational Studies Vatterott College - Saint Joseph, MO December 1999 to April 2000 Certificate Vatterott College - Omaha, NE August 1998 to October 1999 Skills Javascript Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Technology Associate: Software Development Fundamentals August 2015 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional: Programming in HTML5 with JavaScript and CSS3 June 2019 to Present