Software Development Manager <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Manager Software Development Manager Trinity, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Development Manager VOLOGY 2015 to 2018 Directed overall operational strategy development and execution of a successful 24/7 high-performance  application infrastructure, and manage a $10M IT capital budget.  • Managed 6 direct reports, and maintained management oversight of various teams enterprise-wide  including Development, DevOps and Product Development.  • Spearheaded performance management initiatives for developers and support specialists, delivering  mentoring, coaching, and development that enhanced performance and professional development.  • Oversaw and managed all aspects of planning, design, and implementation of Salesforce at the enterprise level.  • Strategically defined, developed and executed comprehensive technical solutions to support technology  and business needs.  • Partnered with business and IT leaders in managing projects and mitigating risks to enable timely project  delivery.  • Identified and implemented innovative ways to improve operations processes; identified cost savings  and increase team productivity; increased productivity significantly.  • Successfully renegotiated IT contracts with vendors, consolidated datacenter, and led adoption of cloud- based services to improve IT services and security.  • Previous role at Vology was Software Developer from 2011 to 2015 VOLOGY 2011 to 2018 Application Developer TECH DATA CORPORATION 2006 to 2011 • Contributed to the development of strategic plans, researched new technologies, and developed and promoted adherence with policies, procedures and industry best practices.  • Served as an internal subject-matter expert for technical solutions, with accountability for vendor  selection, master service agreement negotiation, service quality, and application development.  • Implemented new databases that were partner centric and seamless to the customer base; increased  services availability and delivery time for clients.  • Led the creation of a SSIS package; resulted in customer cost to Tech Data being dramatically reduced  due follow tool implementation.  • Served as a key contributor in the design, implementation and support of various internal and external  applications.    Previous experience at Tech Data included serving as an Associate Application Developer and Database Analyst. TECH DATA CORPORATION 1997 to 2011 Education Certification Oshkosh and the University of Wisconsin Parkside 2014 Bachelor of Science University of Wisconsin Skills VBA, VISUAL BASIC, VISUAL BASIC 6, VISUAL BASIC 6.0, XML, Software Development, C#, NET Additional Information Technical Competencies  Microsoft  ASP.NET • Visual Basic.NET • SQL Servers 7.0 and 2000 • Project 2000 • Access • VBA • Visual Basic 6.0 for  Applications • XML • All Office Products    CRM/ERP Solutions  SAP • SAP Business Warehouse • Siebel • Salesforce