Senior .NET Developer Senior .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior .NET Developer - BRIGHTSTAR CORP Beach Park, IL Innovative, analytical, problem solver, in the role of Senior .NET developer for 19+ years. Leveraging principles learned from a Computer Engineering education. Excelling in design concepts and brining to life IT solutions for solving business problems and business needs. Promotes collaborative thinking in a fast-paced environment to strengthen understanding within and outside the team to deliver high quality products and added value to the business outcome. Trusted to work on highly business critical systems and projects. Tenacious problem solver, delivering solutions that fully support the bottom line and long-range goals. Quick to spot problems in concepts and designs and to determine the best method to overcome them. Catalyst for change who readily adapts to evolving business and technology challenges. Active academic math, business, and programming language mentor/tutor who enhances learning for high school, undergraduate, and graduate college students.  TECHNOLOGY  Database: SQL Server 2000-2012, Access  Languages: C/C++, VB 6.0, C# ASP.net, and VB.NET, Visual Studio 2005- 2012, WinForms, .Net Core  Version Control: Microsoft TFS Server 2010-2012, Visual SourceSafe Work Experience Senior .NET Developer BRIGHTSTAR CORP - Libertyville, IL November 2013 to Present 6 years  Technology lead responsible for providing designs for new or existing systems enhancements working with a team of developers mentoring them to ensure compliance to programming standards in Object Oriented and MVC. Senior .Net Developer working on Tier 1 Global WMS application and complementary Brightstar Logistics systems/applications including Web based portals, client server applications, web services and SQL Server. Provides training and documentations to Level 2 and supports Level 3 escalations. Nominated and won 2019 Living the Values Award - EARNED TRUST.  • Key Accomplishments:  Global WMS/TMS System/Supply Chain Operations Implementation: Selected as Lead Developer to attend HighJump WMS development training and was certified. Able to apply WMS learning in development of new enhancements for web application and handheld application. Able to upgrade existing Brightstar systems to integrate with the new WMS.  Fast Sales Quote Estimation Application: Design and developed from concept to end product the Brightstar Estimation tool application that received the 2016 Innovation of the Year Award for enabling the Sales Team to provide quick quotes and land business opportunities. The application is developed in C# .Net using Object Oriented design patterns and backend development in SQL Server.  Production Kitting Application: Provided next generation enhancements for the growing logistics business. Integrating with Sprint systems through APIs that allows for Mobile Phone over the air activation. Improved system throughput performance by creating background services to eliminate manual steps to allow personnel to continuously do processing without stopping. Added support tools to allow support staff to quickly resolve issues.  Control Tower EDI Hub/Supply Chain Gateway: Provided enhancements, added Administrative screen to allow flexibility of configuring the application. Integrated with Active Directory to comply with SOX requirements. Application performance tuning to allow the pages to load faster. Partnered with Apple and developed a mechanizing to upload updated pricing for Apple devices via web portal  Value added Enhancements/System Improvements  Developed shipping solution that replaced print and apply functionality which saved over $100K. Integrated USPS in WMS that allows for savings of $250K per year. Developed secondary label printing system for printing complex labels. PROGRAMMER/ANAYLST UNIFIED SOLUTIONS, INC - Pleasant Prairie, WI January 2009 to November 2013 3+ years  Main responsibilities included maintaining and updating existing software. I also created new software as needed. Most of the applications had a SQL Server backend that it interfaced with.  • Designed and created a company wide training tracking system in VB.Net. Allowed managers to record training received by their employees. Allowed for scheduling, sending outlook appointments, and reporting system (Train N Track).  • Design labels and created webservices to generate the ZPL code for them.  • Added features and fixed bugs for WMS system that utilizing ASP.NET.  • Updated existing code for VB6 and Classic ASP applications. SOFTWARE ENGINEER VARIAN/ANALOGIX - Burlington, WI November 2004 to January 2009 • Wrote C# application and embedded software for next-generation Flash Chromatography Machine.  • Created software for internal use that improved production processes  • Trouble shot electronic and hardware issues that resulted in a needed hardware change  • Varian was impressed by the products, they bought the company  • Successfully spun off part of the main application into a custom control that was licensed out for $100k. SOFTWARE ENGINEER TECNOVA - Gurnee, IL June 2000 to April 2004 • Developed embedded systems that read various sensors and outputted information  • Desktop applications were developed in Visual Basic 6.0. They dealt with collecting user input and communicating to embedded devices  • Utilized communication protocols such as I2C, RS-485, RS-232  • Delivered company's first commercial product (Anole)  • Embedded projects utilized Microchip, Zilog, Philips microprocessors Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Milwaukee School of Engineering - Milwaukee, WI Skills Sql server, Sql server 2012, Sql, Api, Application development, Javascript, Xml, Css, Iis, Iis 6, Web services, Sdlc, Unit testing, Microsoft ssrs, Ssrs, jquery, Crystal reports, Mentoring, Training, Performance tuning Certifications/Licenses High Jump WMS Advantage Architect Present High Jump Page Editor Present