Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Abel Consulting Engineers Woodsboro, MD Pursue a and obtain position on a high-level development team. Work Experience Developer Abel Consulting Engineers - Frederick, MD October 2018 to Present • Develop, Design, and Implementation of ACEPA_CFS Software for use by professional engineers to assist in Cold Form Steel calculations under American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) specifications.  • Requirements engineering and specification for ACEPA_CFS software consisted of discussing the business requirements with vice president and engineers and designing requirements that best fit their need.  • Understanding of structural engineering scope, restrictions, and calculus for design decisions. Utilized structural engineering best practice and information from structural engineers to validate design constraints, validate accuracy of mathematical calculations, and validate calculations from previously known software to newly implemented software. Research Assistant Dept. of Computer Science, Hood College March 2016 to Present • Quality Assurance Testing  • Soldering/Circuitry  • Development and updates on project website. AISI Standards and Codes for Cold Form Steel 1999 to Present Jr. Software Developer/Tester LexSource, LLC - Rockville, MD June 2016 to October 2018 • Developed software to parse and extract information from spreadsheets  • Developed functional regression testing software using Selenium to test web application.  • Used Endtest.io cloud integration to create cloud-based regression testing suites.  • Regression Testing platform analysis evaluation: Developed criteria and evaluated industry and open source regression testing tools suitable for deployment in the company's agile development lifecycle.  • Managed the deployment and implemented the migration of test suite from Selenium to EndTest.io cloud environment.  • Developed functional web service software to use Endtest.io API to run tests and print results in a meaningful way without tester needing to see back end. Education B.S. in Computer Science Hood College - Frederick, MD 2019 Assessments Data Analysis — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rt0ekl6ujl-69wu3 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.