Sr .NET Developer Sr .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr .NET Developer Baltimore, MD • 9+ years in software development life cycle (SDLC) especially in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deploying of applications and implementing-tier Client/Server applications using Object Oriented design methodologies.  • Experience in developing N-tier applications using ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, Windows Forms, Visual Studio.NET, ADO.NET, XML, Web Services, Java Script, and VB Script.  • Experience in designing web pages using HTML, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Expertise in advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as Angular.js, React JS ,Backbone.js, Prototype, Dojo, Node.js, Ember.js, Knockout.js.  • Expertise in designing and developing Single Page Application using jQuery, HTML5, Kendo, Microservices using Web API 2 and Entity Framework 6. Has in-depth knowledge in MVVM and MVW pattern using Angular JS.  • Experience with Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Experience working more than 6 years with MS Azure and AWS in Cloud Computing.  • Experience in preparing Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Collaboration diagram using design tools.  • Experienced with deployments, Maintenance and troubleshooting applications on Microsoft Cloud Infrastructure Azure.  • Knowledge on Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Concepts including Inheritance, Abstraction and Polymorphism.  • Got proficient experience in using Android UI Framework tools like Status Bar, notifications, Dialogs. Worked on different layouts for the development of UI.  • Strong Experience in Web Forms and Win Forms applications with .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2 and Visual Studio 2015/2012/2010/2008/2005.  • strong Microsoft Technologies in the fields of Win-forms, Web-forms, Web Services using ASP.NET(4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0/1.1),.NET Core, VB.NET, C#, MVC, Entity framework, Angular JS, ADO.NET AJAX, LINQ, WCF, WPF, Silverlight 2.0/3.0 using Microsoft .NET Framework.  • Experience in creating Views, Partial Views, and Sections etc. In ASP.NET MVC, and Created the Controllers and Controller Actions, Filters, Routing using ASP.NET MVC.  • Strong experience on MS SQL Server 2012/2008 using SQL, MS SQL, SSIS and T-SQL. Have worked on ETL using SSIS and DTS packages.  • Experience in deploying desktop applications, web applications, websites and console applications to the Microsoft Azure Cloud.  • Created Exposed Restful service Web API endpoints.  • Experienced in UNIT Testing frameworks like NUnit, MS Unit Tests & Rhino mocks (mocking).  • Experience in working Language Integrated Query (LINQ) especially LINQ to object and LINQ to SQL  • Experience using AJAX to create interactive web applications, mainly focusing at increasing performance.  • Experience in developing and building applications using Windows Workflow Foundation and XAML.  • Worked on reading and generating XML files and related technologies like XSL, XSLT, XAML and X-Path  • Knowledge in working with RDBMS includes MS SQL Server 2012/2008/2005, Oracle 8i, 9i, 10gand MS-Access.  • Excellent skill in data modeling and implementing tables, views, stored procedures, functions, schemas, and Triggers using T-SQL Queries and PL/SQL.  • Involved in development of projects using SQL Server Integrated Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Data Transformation Services (DTS).  • Good experience with Agile (SCRUM)methodology, Waterfall and Test driven development  • Performed Unit Testing (using N-Unit), Integration Testing and Performance Testing.  • Strong analytical and good trouble shooting skills.  • Very Good experience in handling clients & meeting their requirements and willing to adapt to new technologies/work environments, well organized team player with good analytical and leadership skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr .NET Developer bachelor degree - Atlanta, GA April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Acted as a Full stack developer being involved in the front end, middle tier and back end development.  • Involved in reviewing existing application for enhancements and bug fixing and developed Proof of concepts using MVC5, JQuery, Jason, Ajax, JavaScript and HTML5, CSS3.  • Designed, developed SOA Web Services using WCF Services with .NET, C#.NET and Hosted on IIS and Unit tested with MS Unit Framework, C#.NET.  Developed private and public Web APIs, using ASP.NET Web API 2.  • Implemented solutions relying on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), using Web Services, SOAP and WSDL.  • Development of Code and Unit testing which includes development of Web Services, Window Services and WCF Services.  • Development of Web applications in ASP.Net, MVC5, C#, LINQ.  • Designed the web pages using ASP.NET, HTML, and Telerik controls, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Angular JS XML and CSS3.  • Designed the web UI using RAZOR View Engine.  • Designed Custom classes for Data Validations, exceptional handling and logging.  • Hands on experience in developing, debugging multi-tier applications using C#, MVC5, T-SQL.  • Developed Single tire and multi tire Frameworks in WCF.  • Develop reusable components.  • Developed WCF services, Azure web role and Worker roles.  • Designed, developed Restful Web Services using WCF Services with .NET, C#.NET and Hosted on IIS and Unit tested with MS Unit Framework, C#.NET.  • Customized the look and feel of the Rich Interactive User Interface using Data Templates, Control Templates, Styles, and Resources using Visual Studio 2012.  • Created various Stored Procedures and Triggers using SQL Server 2012/T-SQL, Created Indexes, Joins on key fields for fast retrieval and Database optimization.  • Accessing SQL Server 2008 to fetch the reference data to both the applications and SQL server 2012 with Entity Framework.  • Done unit testing and integration testing and testing of database, queries optimization and performance.  • Fixing bugs reported by QA and performed unit testing. Used Perforce for source control and documented the entire application.  • Developed user controls and custom controls, employed Dependency object for custom properties, events and moved code behind C# implementation to View Models to enable loosely coupling.  • Involved in calling Stored Procedures and Functions from Entity Framework using C# and Visual Studio 2012.  • Designed and developed MS Access user interfaces with user validations using VBA.  • UI design & development.  • Involvement in Automation Infrastructure Development Using QuickTest Pro, along with automation Specialist.  • Debugged web applications and JavaScript using Firefox Firebug, Fiddler, and IE DeveloperToolbar.  • Experience in configuring and managing source using TFS, GIT.  • Added logging feature for the application using Nlog.  • Applying Multithreading techniques for creating high performance applications.  • System integration testing with external Interfaces.  • Environment Support during integration testing.  • Support for testing, User Acceptance Testing, Performance Testing.  • Used SSIS/SSRS to create reports.  • Deployment Support in Multiple Environments.  • Experience in Descriptive Programming using QTP.  • Extensively used automated test tools like WinRunner and QTP for Functional and Regression Testing.  • Testing all pages with JAWS tool to ensure ADA standards are met.    Environment: Visual Studio 2012, C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net, MVC(3.0/4.0), Entity Frameworks, WPF, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, JSON, SSRS, SSIS, SQL Server 2008 R2, Web API, Windows XP, Windows Server 2003, T-SQL, TFS, Azure Cloud and SOA. Sr .NET Developer Deloitte - Orlando, FL January 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Effectively involved in various stages of development of the project starting from the project planning until production and maintenance using agile methodology.  • Used web services (WCF, Web API) to interact with data layer to access data from the database.  • UX/UI Design Photoshop/illustrator or Wire Framing Prototyping.  • Created WCF/C# service for listening in on live Phone/Skype conversations using a HTML5 WebSockets.  • Mobile Development web application for Android, iOS and BlackBerry Device  • Created Control templates, Data templates, Styles, Style Triggers, Value Converters, Commands and Dependency /Attached Properties for the WPF application.  • Tested EDI inbound and outbound process following EDI Mapping.  • Involve design and architecture of developing internal Cloud environment.  • Worked with ASP.NET Web Forms, State Management, caching features, for optimization and configuration of the web application using C#.NET  • Designed, developed and trouble-shoot the application using advanced Microsoft technologies such as ASP.NET MVC with Entity Framework v6, jQuery, HTML5, XML, WCF, WPF and CSS3 using Agile development practices.  • Extensive experience of Object Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular JS and React JS.  • Created Angular component which makes an AJAX call to these APIs, using RESTfulservice APIs.  • Developed Web application using C#, ASP.NET and developed SPA using Angular JS and MVC5.  • Worked with the application developers and provide necessary SQL Scripts using T-SQL  • Configuring high availability using geographical MongoDB replica sets across multiple data centers.  • Performance tuning and stress-testing Of NoSQL database environments in order to ensure acceptable database performance in production mode.  • For the front-end development used the HTML, CSHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, bootstrap, Angular.js.  • Developed secure login interfaces with ASP.NET Server controls.  • Used various server controls like Multi View and Grid View with extensive data binding to display, page and sort multiple records.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using ASP.NET.  • Developed Server side and Client-side code using ASP.NET, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed applications using ASP.NET with ADO.NET and SQL 2012.  • Built prototype using leveraging the Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern and bound all controls using data binding to the View Model.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, Java Script, jQuery, JSON Data and Angular JS.  • Used jQuery, ASP.NET, AJAX toolkit controls and CSS to enhance the performance and richness to the user interface.  • Developed User controls using ASP.NET and used them dynamically in the web pages using Master pages and CSS.  • Extensively used .NET inbuilt components like Data Grid, Data List and Calendar controls along with other .NET server controls.  Wrote configuration settings in Web. Config.    Environment:HTML5, AngularJS, CSS3, JavaScript, Micro Services, XML, AJAX, SQL, ASP.NET, MVC, C#, ADO.NET, MS SQL Server 2012, SSRS, WPF, TFS, LINQ, AWS ,Visual Studio 2014, IIS. NET Developer Cisco - Durham, NC December 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the system right from analysis, designing to maintenance  • Involved in creating technical documents and designing the flow of the system.  • Used Rational Requisite Pro for gathering Business Requirements.  • Generated sequence diagrams, class diagrams using UML Methodologies.  • Involved in designing and developing of the web forms using C#, ASP.NET.  • Designed Master pages for the Uniform Look and feel of the site  • Implemented different reusable object oriented layers (Business Object Layer, Data Access Layer, Business logic) allowing each layer to work independent of the other to produce a robust system.  • Customized various controls for Application by developing Custom Controls and User Controls.  • Implemented Role Based Security and SSL to make application secure.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture.  • Implemented ASP.NET validation controls and JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Architecting, design and implementing ASP.NET MVC, AngularJS, SPA web solutions with industry best practices and design patterns  • Developed Runtime libraries and used 2D and 3D rendering using WPF  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using AngularJS, EXTJS, ODATA and JQUERY  • Create a Virtual Network on Windows Azure to connect all the servers, application on the Azure API platform that requires no on-premises hardware Extensively.  • Used AJAX framework for ASP.NET partial page refresh.  • Created Exposed Restful service Web API endpoints.  • Created several SSRS reports and consumed them in project.  • Created the user access list to restrict the people who have access to this application by giving roles and responsibilities to each user.  • Followed the MVC Design Patterns.  • Experienced in MVC client side framework like AngularJS, and BackboneJS.  • Used WCF to achieve interoperability between .NET Application and third-party web service.  • Produced design artifacts using Microsoft Visio.  • Maintained uniformity among all web pages in GUI and designed Master Pages and themes.  • Data grid, Data list and repeater server controls are used with ADO.NET to manipulate the data and generate results based on alert types.  • Implemented Web Services using HTTP and SOAP protocol.  • Used LINQ2XML, LINQ2Sql for querying the data from xml data, SQL database  • Used TFS(Team Foundation Server) for Version control  • Extensively involved in generating Stored Procedures and Triggers for data manipulation.  • Written generic exception handlers which will log the user actions into Error Log Files.  • Involved in NUnit testing on the final product.  • Implemented agile methodology for project enhancements.  • Involved in production support, and fix problems in a short span of time.    Environment:HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML,, SQL, ASP.NET, MVC, C#, ADO.NET, MS SQL Server 2012, SSRS, AngularJS, WPF, TFS, LINQ, Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server Management Studio 2014, IIS NET Developer Pacific Rim capital - Aliso Viejo, CA February 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used ASP.NET, HTML and CSS to design the presentation layer of the website.  • Prepared various test cases to fix the bugs and ensure the application error-free.  • Used .NET Framework class library to build User Interface (UI) that separates application logic from presentation code using code behind pages (C#).  • Used Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) for multiple services to interact with the application for the clients.  • Developed XML Web Services using C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, SOAP, XAML, XSLT, WSDL, and UDDI for exposing the functionalities of the enterprise business components at the Business Layer.  • Used XML to transport and store data.  • Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET MVC Framework.  • Used Master Pages to provide a unified look and feel to the application.  • Used AJAX to create better, faster and more user-friendly web applications.  • Consumed internal web services and hands on experience with XML features to transfer data between the applications and database Engines.  • Designed large numbers of Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls.  • Used Grid View, Data List, and Panels to display and manipulate data in ASP.NET Web Forms.  • ADO.NET was used to implement the data layer to communicate with the SQL Server 2008  • Used ADO.NET components like Grid View, Data Adapter, Data Reader and Data Set to retrieve, display data.  • Developed stored procedures, Views and automated SQL, T-SQL scripts for database maintenance, deployment and installation.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) as a Source code control.  • Deliver fully functional products to QA  • Assist in the design and testing of new and existing products and features  • Developed a workflow module in C# has multi select grid with mass update.  • Worked on NHibernate and LINQ to fetch data from data source  • Using LINQ for querying objects.  • Updating the daily status in team meeting related to Application development progress and future targets.    Environment:XAML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, SQL, ASP.NET, MVC, C#, ADO.NET, Rhino Mocks, MS SQL Server 2012. WCF, TFS, LINQ, Visual Studio 2014, IIS NET Developer TCFEF - Minnetonka, MN March 2011 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Web Forms in ASP.NET using C#.  • Implemented n-tier architecture by separating the User Interface (UI), Business and Data layers.  • Built reusable modules for custom solutions to achieve code refactoring saving development time.  • Master and Content pages to accommodate cross browser references using CSS  • Implemented various multipurpose validation blocks to validate server-side controls and exception management blocks in Enterprise library 5.0.  • Extensively used C# to develop all the business libraries and backend development  • Hands on in application development using with C#. Web Forms in ASP.NET using C# As the code-behind language and ADO.NET and LINQ as the Database data consumer And ASP.NET MVC  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, Data set and Data List for reading/updating records in the database.  • Developed the front end UI using HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  • Developed Stored Procedures in the SQL Server database.  • Performed impact analysis on the dependency projects of One-Source Project  • Involved in writing unit test plans and developing test cases  • Worked extensively on installers, compilers in software development using Bootstrap technique.  • Performed Coding/Programming tasks to specification and in accordance with Development standards.  • Working knowledge of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Developed a workflow module in C# has multi select grid with mass update.  • Wrote T-SQL queries in creating views and dynamic stored procedures in SQL Server. Used joins, CTE, and temporary tables to get data from different tables.  • Web Form design and coding using Master Pages, Server controls, CSS, JavaScript, and HTML.  • Created the User Defined Function form and used in related modules.  • Prepared release notes for client reference.  • Experience with SQL Server 2008/2012 and IIS.    Environment:HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, SQL, ASP.NET, MVC, C#, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2012, WCF, Visual Studio 2012, IIS Software Developer GEICO - Chevy Chase, MD April 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked as part of Customization and Implementation team of the Core Banking product Finacle and developed Custom apps/Reports.  • Involved in SDLC including designing, coding and testing.  • Worked on Designing, Coding, Testing and maintaining database objects, tables, views, packages, functions, procedures, indexes, sequences and triggers using SQL.  • Created front end pages of the application with JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Developed SQL scripts for Extraction, transformation and Loading of Data and designed source Entities for Oracle.  • Authored Business Requirement Documents, Functional and Technical Design documents, Integration Documents and User Training Documents.  • Worked in all deployment processes UAT and Production Environments. Handled database and website programming tasks.  • Web page Design including the use of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Design and implementation of databases using SQL, C#.  • Performed Unit testing.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.    Environment: SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Windows. Education Bachelor's computer science Fairleigh Dickinson University Skills Ajax (9 years), C# (9 years), CSS (8 years), HTML (9 years), SQL (9 years), javascript, asp, mysql, php Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, MVC, WCF,WPF, ASMX, Xamarin, XCode, Micro Services,AJAX, XAML, LINQ, HTML, CSS, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script,AngularJS, React JS, jQuery, Boot Strap.  Databases: MS SQL Server 2008/2012/2014.  ORM Tool: NHibernate  Reporting Tool: SQL Server Reporting Service  Frameworks: .NET Framework 4.0,.NET Core, Entity Framework in .NET  Languages: C#, C, C++  Application Tools: Visual Studio .NET 2008/2012/2015, SQL Management Studio TFS.  Web Servers: IIS