Sr .Net Developer Sr .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr .Net Developer - Mckesson, GA Detroit, MI • Experience in Microsoft Technologies in Designing, Developing and Implementing client/server applications, web development, Object Oriented Programming in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using C#, .NET Framework VB.NET, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC Framework, ADO .NET, AJAX, LINQ, WCF, WPF, CSS, Web Services, SOAP, JSON, LINQ, Team Foundation Server, Web Services using .NET, SOAP.  • Experienced in Software Development Methodologies like Agile Methodology, Waterfall Model and Test Driven Methodology (TDD).  • Writing Customized Deployment Process templates for deploying source bits to Dev/QA/UAT/PROD Environments using PowerShell & TFS.  • Experience in RDBMS like SQL Server (2000, 2005, and 2008) with proficiency in indexing, stored procedures, views, queries and triggers, as well as MongoDB - NoSQL - in many aspects: installation, replica sets, sharding, journaling, opTime, indexing.  • Strong experience in data retrieval and manipulation using ADO.NET data objects such as Dataset, Data Reader, Data list, Data Adaptor, Entity Frame work.  • Experienced in creating rich User Interface on the web using HTML 5.0, XAML, DHTML, Master Pages, Angular JS, CSS, Ajax, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Managed the provisioning, operation, monitoring and maintenance of systems software and application in MS Azure IAAS, PASS, SAAS.  • Experienced in developing 3-tier applications using C#.Net, VB.Net and ASP.Net with extensive exposure to OOPS concepts, ADO.Net, Generics, SQL Server, PL/SQL, CSS, HTML, JQUERY, and XML.  • Good experience in Angular.js, Bootstrap, HTML5, CCS3 and most single page application technologies and works on SharePoint for project collaboration. Familiarity with responsive web design concepts and mobile trends and used Xamarin for the part of mobile app development.  • Experience with developing GUI using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, AngularJS, DHTML, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, and XML.  • Proficient in implementing WCF-SOAP/Web API - RESTful services and consuming using different communication protocols and well versed with implementing custom WCF debugging and performance modules.  • Experience in JIRA, Confluence and Rally tools for Agile development process to do issue tracking, project management and documents collaboration.  • Familiarity in building Web Services using WSDL, UDDI and SOAP Protocol.  • Good Knowledge in SharePoint, BizTalk Server, RabbitMQ, Couchbase (NoSQL) and Windows Azure.  • Very good experience with Agile/SCRUM and Kanban development.  • Expert in designing reports using Microsoft SSRS and data integration using Microsoft SSIS and data analysis services using Microsoft SSAS.  • Expertise on working with RDBMS like DB2 (v 8.1.2) and Oracle (v 8i, 9i, 10g) and knowledge of directory services like LDAP.  • Experienced in database designing/architecture with SQL Server writing database queries using joins, Indexes, views, stored procedures, triggers, normalization, functions, T-SQL, PL/SQL and query optimization techniques.  • Experience in managing Data Access Layer using ORM Technology Entity Framework Database First and Code First approaches to communicate effectively with databases to do activities like CRUD operations, Transactions, Performance tuning etc.  • Experience using major Source Code Version Control tools like MS Visual Source Safe (VSS) and TFS (Team- Foundation Server), Subversion (SVN).  • Have worked on Microsoft Dynamics CRM customization including plugins, workflows and web-resources.  • Knowledge in Developing and Supporting WIN Forms and Web Forms.  • Worked with Data Validation, Data Adapter, Dataset, Data reader as a part of ADO.NET to access and update database.  • Experienced with the usage of N-tier application architecture, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, MVC and MVVM.  • Familiar in updating, accessing and version controlling the code using Team Foundation Server (TFS), GitHub and Jenkins, Maven.  • Integration expertise for e-Commerce Web Applications with Point of Sale (POS) using Remote Terminal Interface (Custom Built Integration Service) & Aloha Take out Service (ATO).  • Strong knowledge in developing web based applications using technologies, AngularJS, Knockout JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, Ajax, Telerik RAD Controls, Ajax Toolkit, Kendo UI.  • Expertise in database Programming with Triggers, Functions, Procedures, Sequences and Stored Procedures using SQL and PL/SQL, primarily with Oracle at the back-end.  • Advanced experience in SQL, Stored procedures, triggers and views using Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, Teradata. Work Experience Sr .Net Developer Mckesson, GA October 2018 to Present Description: Mckesson is one of the largest payment processors in the United States, delivering credit/debit/prepaid card processing. The role is about develop and maintain a Point-of-Sale System used by about 3,000 restaurants nationwide, using C#, VB.NET,VB6, SourceSafe.    Responsibilities:  • Deliver highest quality Cnet code within the planned sprints with minimum defects.  • End to end development and deployment of the WCF service and web application to all environments including production. Helped setup and use continuous integration with automated build/deployment tools.  • Used Github, Team City, Buildmaster, GO and Octopus.  • Designed user interface for application using ASP.NET MVC, JavaScript, J Query, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, and implemented business logic using C# .NET.  • Used third party tool Infragistics tool to build Silverlight application in deployment.  • Developed ASP.NET pages to submit, track and approve the Workflow requests.  • Provide design and architectural support for the applications in the team and to other teams.  • Coordinate with offshore team and assigned and reviewed their work.  • Update daily activities in Rally and Quality Center  • Leading a team of 5 members in onsite-offshore model  • Performed Application level tracing, debugging, and state maintenance through the Web.Config file under the root directory of the application  • Perform code review, database and component design reviews.  • Expertise in developing Client/Server Applications on Three Tier Architecture, N-Tier Architecture, SOA (Service-oriented Architecture), MVC (Model View Controller), MVVM (Model View View Model), Entity Framework.  • Working knowledge in design, development of User Interface (UI) and implementing client side HTML, CSS, Java Script, J Query, Angular JS.  • Experience in web development using XML, XSD, X-Path and XSLT.  • Used TDD Architecture, which relies on the repetition of a very short development cycle.  • Designed and developed all pages in WEB FORM, WIN FORMS using ASP.NET, C#.  • Implemented the Object-Oriented Programming concepts in VB.NET and ASP. NET.  • Worked with ASP.NET MVC 4.5, Partial Views, and Master Pages and developed Cascading style sheets (CSS) for consistent look and feel of the website.  • Worked as a Subject Matter Expert in development between in-house, offshore and vendor along with production releases with end-to-end tracking, task updates, cost savings reports to business group and technology groups with in core standards.  • Front-end featured a rich web interface implemented using J Query, JavaScript toolkits ExtJS.  • Created stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages in T-SQL for backend communication.  • Using ADO.Net Entity Framework Code First with reverse engineered POCO Classes and Fluent APIs.  • Implemented .Net framework 4.0 and Object Oriented Methodologies for application development.  • Worked on pushing the data to DB. Used Mongo DB and Dynamo DB. (AWS)  • Responsible for designing the UI using HTML, JavaScript, J Query, Angular JS, CSS, Xamarin.  • Implemented Agile Scrum best practice with team and coordinating with Developers, QA team, management and Business timely manner.  • Interacting with on-site tech leads, Tech Support team, understanding the support flow, functionality and requirements in BA.  • The projects adhere to the Agile Scrum, create project backlogs, decide timelines, assign functionality to individual team members and resolve dependency bottlenecks in sprint meeting.    Technologies Used: ASP .Net MVC 4.5, C#, .Net 4.0, WCF service, ADO .Net, SQL Server, . Net Framework 4.5.2, Visual Studio, WPF, XSD, XAML, AWS, Dynamo DB, PRISM 5.0, MS Visual Studio, ADO.NET, T-SQL, Win Forms, NHibernate 4, Modernizer, VB.NET, WSDL, Entity Framework 6, Oracle SQL Developer 4, Oracle Client 12C, Fiddler Web Debugger, Tortoise SVN, Agile Scrum. Sr. .Net Developer Quicken Loans - Detroit, MI October 2016 to September 2018 Description: Quicken Loans Inc. is the nation's largest online retail mortgage lender and the second largest retail mortgage lender in the U.S. It is also the nation's leading Veteran Affairs (VA) lender and the largest FHA lender. Involved in a Project named "DRIVE 2.0" which is An internal website. It's a tool which allows Team Members to catalog their work and team leaders to view, comment, leave feedback and assess the performance of Team Members.    Responsibilities:  • Developed multilayered architecture application with User Interface, Service layer, Business and Data Access layers using ASP.NET Web API and Entity Framework.  • Designed and implemented application using C#, ASP.NET MVC 5.0 with Razor View Engine, J Query, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript Utilized Entity Framework Database First approach.  • Designed presentation layer for dynamic web forms using ASP.net MVC 5.0 Framework, JSON, AngularJS and Visual Studio 2013.  • Designing User Interfaces, Web pages using Bootstrap, HTML 5 and JavaScript (J Query) & JSON, AngularJs and CSS to enhance UI experience on Client-side.  • Involved from the beginning in researching with business about the task and have regular SCRUM meetings with other team Members to discuss the flow of the Project.  • Utilize J Query AJAX library to call Web API to populate dropdown list and utilize J Query UI auto complete to call action method in controller to implement auto complete. Use Query UI dialog and partial view to implement a pop-up.  • Used ASP.NET MVC data annotations and J query to do validations on the Model Data  • Involved in design and development of various components and modules of the application using Visual studio 2013.  • Implemented service oriented component (SOA) Layer using C#.net and WCF to decouple the UI with Business Logic.  • Language-Integrated Query to EF implementation for data retrieval. Transaction management in queries for Create-Update-Delete (CRUD)  • Responsible for full people module development written in Angular JS, Bootstrap, JS and MVC framework with C#.  • Created Web APIs using ASP.NET Web API allow new web/client projects to leverage reusable data.  • Created the Web API which can return the data from SQL Server database and pass the data to the dropdown list in the corresponding views.  • Using AngularJS to add some dynamic tables to the website, and make the website works faster.  • Used WCF Services for communicating with other application and components using C# code.  • Designing SSIS ETL packages to validate, extract, load from different file formats and a data sources.  • Involved in writing T-SQL Programming for implement Stored Procedures and Functions for tasks.  • Developed complex stored procedures using temporary tables and loops using SQL, PL/SQL and T-SQL.  • Implemented Windows authentication in WCF and Worked on the SSO - Ping Identity to eliminate multiple Usernames and Passwords which instead takes window's User Name as the User Id.  • Designed SSRS reports with sub reports, dynamic sorting, defining data source and subtotals for the report  • Involved in doing builds in both Development and Testing Server using NUnit Testing.  • Responsible for maintaining versions of source code using Team Foundation Server.    Environment: Visual Studio 2012, C#.VB.Net, ASP.Net, MVC(3.0/4.0), Entity Frameworks, WPF, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, SSRS, SSIS, SQL Server 2008 R2, Web API, Windows XP, Windows Server 2003. Sr. .Net Developer Quicken Loans - Detroit, MI August 2014 to September 2016 Description: Quicken Loans Inc. is the nation's largest online retail mortgage lender and the second largest retail mortgage lender in the U.S. It is also the nation's leading Veteran Affairs (VA) lender and the largest FHA lender. Involved in a Project named "DRIVE 2.0" which is An internal website. It's a tool which allows Team Members to catalog their work and team leaders to view, comment, leave feedback and assess the performance of Team Members.    Responsibilities:  • Developed multilayered architecture application with User Interface, Service layer, Business and Data Access layers using ASP.NET Web API and Entity Framework.  • Designed and implemented application using C#, ASP.NET MVC 5.0 with Razor View Engine, J Query, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript Utilized Entity Framework Database First approach.  • Designed presentation layer for dynamic web forms using ASP.net MVC 5.0 Framework, JSON, AngularJS and Visual Studio 2013.  • Designing User Interfaces, Web pages using Bootstrap, HTML 5 and JavaScript (J Query) & JSON, AngularJs and CSS to enhance UI experience on Client-side.  • Involved from the beginning in researching with business about the task and have regular SCRUM meetings with other team Members to discuss the flow of the Project.  • Utilize J Query AJAX library to call Web API to populate dropdown list and utilize J Query UI auto complete to call action method in controller to implement auto complete. Use Query UI dialog and partial view to implement a pop-up.  • Used ASP.NET MVC data annotations and J query to do validations on the Model Data  • Involved in design and development of various components and modules of the application using Visual studio 2013.  • Implemented service oriented component (SOA) Layer using C#.net and WCF to decouple the UI with Business Logic.  • Language-Integrated Query to EF implementation for data retrieval. Transaction management in queries for Create-Update-Delete (CRUD)  • Responsible for full people module development written in Angular JS, Bootstrap, JS and MVC framework with C#.  • Created Web APIs using ASP.NET Web API allow new web/client projects to leverage reusable data.  • Created the Web API which can return the data from SQL Server database and pass the data to the dropdown list in the corresponding views.  • Using AngularJS to add some dynamic tables to the website, and make the website works faster.  • Used WCF Services for communicating with other application and components using C# code.  • Designing SSIS ETL packages to validate, extract, load from different file formats and a data sources.  • Involved in writing T-SQL Programming for implement Stored Procedures and Functions for tasks.  • Developed complex stored procedures using temporary tables and loops using SQL, PL/SQL and T-SQL.  • Implemented Windows authentication in WCF and Worked on the SSO - Ping Identity to eliminate multiple Usernames and Passwords which instead takes window's User Name as the User Id.  • Designed SSRS reports with sub reports, dynamic sorting, defining data source and subtotals for the report  • Involved in doing builds in both Development and Testing Server using NUnit Testing.  • Responsible for maintaining versions of source code using Team Foundation Server.    Environment: Visual Studio 2012, C#.VB.Net, ASP.Net, MVC(3.0/4.0), Entity Frameworks, WPF, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, SSRS, SSIS, SQL Server 2008 R2, Web API, Windows XP, Windows Server 2003. Senior .Net Developer Steris Corporation - Mentor, OH May 2013 to July 2014 Description: Steris Corporation is mainly a Health and life insurance company. The company's goal is to provide value added investment opportunities through sophisticated asset and investment management programs. It uses web services for utilities like for verifying customer's address, credit history, credit card payments. Customer Flow (CF It is an Intranet application, which is mainly designed to process and coordinate policies. This application helps the employees to process and maintain policy details.    Responsibilities:  • Engaged in Migrating the website with n-Tier Architecture to improve performance and increase the scalability of the application.  • Designed and developed custom .NET components and user controls using ASP.NET MVC  • Analyzed the business requirements and develop a functional design of the application.  • Used ORM tools like Entity Framework.  • Design and Development of user Interface and reports for the application.  • Designed web pages using a combination of HTML5 and JavaScript, and developed Web Forms in ASP.NET.  • Expert knowledge and experience with JavaScript frameworks: AngularJS, ReactJS.  • Developed and provided mobile solutions natively on the iOS and Android platforms as well as cross-platform frameworks like React.  • Designed and maintained SQL scripts, created and optimized diverse SQL queries.  • Wrote SQL, PL/SQL programs required to retrieve data using cursors and exception handling.  • Built reports for the display of information for different departments using SQL Server Reporting Services 2010 (SSRS).  • Used LoadRunner to regularly test performance life cycles.  • Used TFS to report bugs and to maintain product backlog items.  • Updating ESX host's using Vmware Update manager.  • Wrote the T-SQL Database Triggers, Views, and Indexes.  • Monitoring and managing performance of ESX servers and Virtual Machines.  • Creation and maintenance of mainframe execution JCL to support system replacement project in User acceptance (UAT) and Production environments.  • Coding the presentation layer using WPF and silver light and service layer using Windows Communication foundation technology.  • Experience in developing and deploying Web Forms, Win Forms, and Web service applications  • Used .Net framework 3.0 and Object-Oriented Methodologies for application development  • Actively participated in TDD Methodology and few components implemented by silver light using and followed the MVVM architecture.  • Customized Kendo UI controls to suit the needs of the application.  • Experienced in applying Refresh packs, Fix packs, Cumulative Fix packs for all versions of WebSphere application server and different flavors of Web Servers.  • Used Angular JS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Developed packages using SSIS for data migration.  • Analyze system requirements, create designs, and create environment.  • Develop the project using Agile Methodology (SCRUM)  • Developed WCF services to use across the different applications.  • Used LINQ to write lambda expressions, and LINQ to XML to get data from parsed objects.  • Developed XSLT for transforming XML into HTML.  • Used Visual Source Safe for version control of the source code along with the maintenance of the builds and the relevant documents of the same.  • Doing on-call support for the applications that are needed to run all the time.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#, C++, Visual Studio, IIS 6.5, SQL Server 2010, WCF, WinForms, PL/SQL, ADO.NET, UML, Selenium, MVC, WPF, Visual Source Safe, TFS, XML, HTML, J Query, AngularJS, Multithreading, HP Quality Centre (Defect Tracking Tool), VSTS (Configuration Tool) Sr. .Net Developer Business Service E-Commerce (BSEE) - Chicago, IL February 2012 to April 2013 Description: BSEE is an e-commerce web application developed at Comcast which helps users to shop the various data subscription plans (Ex: Voice, Video, TV) available for end users. Is has user specific features to eliminate any human intervention in registering any new services at Comcast. It is a CMS (Content Management System) application developed using Sitecore MVC.    Responsibilities:  • Highly involved in requirement analysis and application design meetings with business analysts and team members to finalize the requirements and Created Initial page layouts using wireframes.  • Used AGILE methodologies to implement the application and participated in daily SCRUM and weekly SPRINT meetings.  • Create new web forms, design and implement business logic behind them using ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, Kendo UI  • Designed and Developed views in MVC 5 using Razor Engine.  • Responsible for coding as per the coding standards and perform the Unit testing and integration testing.  • Extensively used User interface controls which use JQuery to validate client side validation.  • Designed and Developed dynamic WebPages using Bootstrap JavaScript JQuery  • Perform enhancements for Web using C# ASP.Net, T-SQL, N-Hibernate and SQL Server  • Experience in using SSIS and SSRS tools like Import and Export Wizard, Package Installation, and SSIS Package Designer.  • Worked WCF Restful and simple ASMX services to retrieve data using XML and JSON.  • Created Custom HTML Helpers for MVC Validations.  • Involved in the development of models, view models, views, partial views and controllers  • Worked closely with the Business Analysts in requirement gathering and design review activities  • Worked with different JQuery plug-ins and implemented client-side functionalities such as paging, table sorting/data tables, sliders.  • Worked on SOAP and RESTFUL Service API using WCF which return XML and JSON data using WCF attributes.  • Used LINQ to XML for retrieving the data efficiently.  • Used ADO.NET Entity Framework Model as the Data Access Layer Database First and implemented the CURD Create, Update, Retrieve and Delete operations, Mapping and executed stored procedures  • Created different Action Filters for decorating across various Action Results. The Action Filters used include the ones used for Handling errors and Caching  • Created hosted WCF Services and also used different bindings to make it available to different types of clients.  • Leveraged WCF mechanisms like Sessioning, Instance management, and concurrency to make our services more robust and scalable.  • Created and maintained database objects like complex Stored Procedures, Cursors, and Tables, Views, User Defined Functions, in SQL Server 2008/2012 for inserting/Updating/Deleting the data into the relational tables.  • Developed PL/SQL triggers and master tables for automatic creation of primary keys.  • Working with Team Foundation Source Control TFS as the source for version control and project / issue management  • Have been involved in project migration from ASP.Net to MCV 5  • Worked on MVC test Project to create automated test for simple test cases and for input validation.  • Worked on entire framework to support Test Driven Development (TDD) by making use of Dependency Injection through unity framework and developed a generic repository  • Performed Unit testing on every new version before sending it for User Acceptance Test UAT  • Performed Unit Testing with the testing tool NUnit and involved in Unit test case, code review checklist preparation and validation.  • Involved in supporting and maintenance for legacy production systems. Actively involved in bug fixes and enhancements postproduction as per the client's requirement.  • Strong trouble shooting and Problem solving skills in finding defects and resolving the issues.    Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2015/2013, MVC 5.0, MVVM, Bootstrap, WCF RESTFUL Service API, ASP.NET, C#, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, XML, JSON, JQuery, Kendo UI, Linq, NUnit, N-Hibernate, Team Foundation Server 2010, Agile and Scrum, IIS 7.0, AJAX, ADO.NET Entity Framework 6.0, Microsoft Enterprise Library, Log4Net, NUNIT, Oracle11g, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g, No-SQL, Windows Server 2008 R2/2008. .NET Developer State of Michigan-Treasury - Lansing, MI October 2010 to January 2012 Application Modernization Program (AMP): This project deals with collecting all server details with work flow approvals and managing the master data of all server details in Ericsson.    Description: The Hardware Integration tracking tool is designed using .Net Framework. This tool utilizes Erisite Web Services API to update information into Erisite Database. The shipping tool contains the data of all the Work orders. The tool gets the latest data into staging database when it is run. All the progress calculation is done and then the progress for the corresponding WO in Erisite is updated using the Erisite Web Services API. The tool is run daily. In the first run it gets all the records present in Shipping Tool. In the subsequent runs, it gets only the delta records, i.e. records that are recently updated. At the end, the tool sends an E-mail with summary about the records that are processed along with a detailed attachment that contains data of all the processed Work Orders.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented the responsive UI of the application by creating components in Angular JS.  • Used Microsoft's ASP.NET MVC framework to develop the Controller and View portion of the design model.  • Developed JavaScript functions for client validations and client-side processing.  • Involved in designing and development of SOA services using Web Services/ WCF.  • Implemented Microsoft Reporting Services to provide critical reports for senior management as well as reporting for partners.  • Developed business logic components as a middle-tier between database (C#, ADO.NET) and the client application \ administration tools (web-services, C#, ASP.NET and IIS)  • Data stored and retrieved in XML files and displayed using XSLT and CSS.  • Wrote XSL and XSLT files to download the required data into excel format.  • Implemented Role based authorization using Forms Authentication.  • Used AJAX controls to minimize server round trip and enhance customer experience.  • Involved in database tuning, indexing and monitoring using profiler, traces and execution plan  • Wrote stored procedures, UDFs and error handling properly inside stored procedures.  • Created User Defined Functions (UDF) for common database logic  • Payment gateway application created and deployed into windows Azure.  • Uses test automation to perform software testing activities for technically complex areas of testing, such as performance and load testing, SOA and web services testing, and backend data validation.  • Web API testing carried out using Fiddler.    Environment: Agile, .Net Framework 4.0, C#, ASP.Net 4.0, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, SOA, LINQ, WCF, Web Services, SOAP, XML, CSS, Visual Studio 2010, Angular JS, SQL Server 2008, Team Foundation Server 2008, SSIS Packages .NET Developer Expedia - St. Louis, MO September 2008 to September 2010 Description: The Project Activity Report System (PARS) is a Web based application, which can be used by all the employees of the organization. It captures employee time sheet data on a daily basis and generates various categories of reports based on the data. An employee time sheet has to be approved by the immediate superior. Employees are assigned different access levels. This decides what category of reports the system generates for the employee.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in MVC Design and Development of ASP.NET Web Forms using C#.NET.  • Developed reusable User controls.  • Designed MVC and developed Reports by using Crystal Report Bundled Version for .NET.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedures and creating Tables, Views in SQL Server 2008.  • Involved in taking Backups, Restoring, Import/Export data using MS SQL Server and DTS.  • Improved the application performance using stored procedures.  • Develop reports using complex formulas and to query the database to generate different types of ad-hoc reports using SSRS.  • As part of the Test-Driven Development (TDD) used N-Unit for creating unit test cases and test doubles.  • Developed Web based GUI using C# 3.5, HTML, DHTML and CSS.  • Experience with XML technologies, such as XSD, XSLT, and XPath.  • Utilized Master Pages Role Based Security and Validation Controls of ASP.NET2.0.  • Created and managed stored procedures, indexed views, user defined functions, triggers, database constraints to meet business requirements and policies.  • Edited, created, managed and maintained HTML, PHP, and ASP pages.  • Used Visual Studio 2010 Re-Sharper utility for interactive and dynamic development.  • Extensively used ADO.NET in order to retrieve and manipulate data from the Database.  • Created middleware components using VB.NET and C# for accessing Oracle 11g data.  • Developed Master Pages for the system using C#.NET and ASP.NET.  • Used Exception handling application block for checking errors/exceptions across the web site.  • Developed Report Component, so that it retrieves the data by executing Stored Procedures throw Data Access component.    Environment: .NET Framework 3.5, VB.NET, MS Access, ASP.Net2.0/1.1, SQL Server 2008, C#, ASP.NET, MVC, Crystal Reports, Visual Studio.NET 2008, Visual SourceSafe SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Hewlett-Packard Enterprise - Nashville, TN February 2007 to August 2008 Description: Hewlett-Packard Enterprise is a comprehensive and integrated system for a Super Specialty Hospital. This package is used to automate the activities of a servicing system. This package contains four modules. They are Administration, Patient Care System, Health Services and Auxiliary Services. Each module is having sub modules. These sub modules maintain registration, details of joining patient and over all day to day activities.    Responsibilities:  • Used Classical ASP and then migrated to ASP.Net.  • Responsible for developing the Logic using C#.NET.  • Developed the business components Class, ASP.Net Web services using C#/SOAP to encapsulate business logic components to be used in distributed environment.  • Developed the Web UI, Web Service, Data Storage using Visual Studio 2003, C#.Net, ASP.Net, IIS.  • Created Various ASP.Net Web Form Controls using Data Grid, Data Repeater, Data List and Dropdown List.  • Helped the Production Team and Testing Team in solving the complex issues.  • Extensively used ASP.NET 1.1, HTML, CSS and Web controls for developing front end screens.  • Developed Web forms using ASP.Net server controls and validated input using Java Script.  • Created Web Application using VB, ASP.Net and used ADO.Net to interact with database.  • Used XML, XSL and XSLT for converting data in XML format into HTML.  • Created Reports using Crystal Rep  • orts for the report needed by Middle Office, Back Office users.    Environment: ASP, ASP.NET1.1, C#, ADO.NET, CSS, JavaScript, HTML/DHTML, XML, Visual Studio Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, Api, C#, C++, Design patterns, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Wcf, Object-oriented, Vb.net, Xml, Ado, Database, Ms access, Ado.net, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Mysql Additional Information SKILLS:    Programming Languages: C, C++, Java, C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, Ext JS, JQuery, ASP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XAML, MongoDB, T-Sql, Pl/Sql  Programming Technologies: ASP, ASP.Net 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, AJAX 3.0/2.0, MVC 4.0/3.0, Web Services, CSS/CSS3, Java Script, Knock out JS, JQuery, J son Angular JS, BOOTSTRAP, HTML/HTML5, REST SERVICES (Web APi, WCF), web forms, node.Js, OOPS, WPF, WWF, ADO.NET, ADO, AJAX, SOAP, REST, Windows Services, LINQ, Web API, , Sencha 4 Ext JS, Sencha Touch, Oracle SOA Suite, Oracle Service Bus, NHibernate/Fluent, NServiceBus, Oracle 11g , Grunt, Ant, Elastic search.  Database: SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000, Oracle 11g/10g/9i, PostgreSQL, Mongo DB - No SQL Database, MS Access, MySQL, Dynamic SQL, Cassandra,  Architecture: Waterfall (SDLC), Agile Methodology (Scrum and XP), Test Driven Programming, Design Patterns and Practices, ER Diagram, Data Flow Diagram, UML Modelling and Data Modelling  Services: Web Services, WCF Services, Windows Services, Web API, Web Sockets.  Other Technologies: UML Modeling, Scrum, Agile, Object-Oriented Designing, Service Oriented Architecture, Design Patterns, Multi-Threading, Microsoft Enterprise Library, MSDTC, Linked Server.  Cloud Computing: AWS, Microsoft Azure, SQL Azure, Azure Search, Azure Active Directory, Visual Studio Online (VSO), Web Apps & Office 365