Steven Singer Jewelers Steven Singer Jewelers Steven Singer Jewelers - Data Core Systems Inc New York, NY ? Focused and driven professional with 11+ Years' Experience in analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of web applications & services (cloud & on-premises), desktop/windows apps etc.  ? Extensive experience in MS Dot Net Technologies with C#, ASP.Net/.Net Core 2x WCF, MVC & Web API with .Net FW and Win/Web Forms, Web/WCF Services, Java Script, jQuery, Angular, VB.Net, and SQL Server (T-SQL), CI/CD (Azure DevOps, TFS/VSTS/Git, etc.) etc.  ? Adept in performance optimizations / tuning, code analysis, code reviews &code refactoring  ? Highly proficient in software engineering with object oriented, Test Driven Design (TDD), Layer and Tiered Architectures, Design patterns (Singleton, DI & IOC etc.).  ? Highly experienced in SDLC methodologies & ALM (Waterfall, Agile Scrum & Kanaan, DevOps)  ? Adept in Define / Refine business processes & support business with product development & delivery, identifying gaps, and providing recommendations & areas of improvements with enhancements  ? Experience in DevOps in CICD build and releases pipelines with automated builds and deployments.  ? Preliminary knowledge of Microservices Work Experience Steven Singer Jewelers Data Core Systems Inc - New York, NY April 2018 to Present Senior Developer (Data Core Systems Inc)  Description:  Data transformation from their legacy MS Access database to SQL server and developed a web application and a WCF service to sync the outlet data to server. I have also prepared an XML from sales force xsd programmatically and pushed the xml to salesforce server.  Responsibilities:  • Development & Delivery, by using Dot Net FW with C#, ASP.Net, Web API, WCF, MVC, SQL Server  • Integration of Sales force with Steven singer Jeweler web application  • Syncing Outlets data with server via WCF service  • Agile SCRUM using Azure DevOps, Git version control systems and CI/CD Pipelines  • Onboarding of Applications to DevOps with CICD Pipelines  • Adapt quickly to new and changing technical and business requirements.  Technology Stack  C#, MVC, Web API, Entity Framework, WCF, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular, SQL Server, SSRS, MS Test, GIT, Azure DEVOPS/CICD, NLog Senior .Net Developer Data Core Systsm Inc - Philadelphia, PA May 2016 to Present Philadelphia, PA and Kolkakata, India 05/2016 Till date Senior .Net Developer Senior Developer Data Core Systems Inc - Philadelphia, PA May 2016 to April 2018 Data Core Systems Inc)  Description:  Developed the application using Asp.net and used WCF for service layer for pushing and pulling data from SQL  Responsibilities:  • Plan, Design, Develop & Implement software applications using MS DotNet Technologies (New Developments)  • Troubleshoot, optimize and improve existing applications (Tech Ops /Prod Support)  • Work with Product Owner to translate business requirements and to deliver quality components and products on time.  • Perform technical assessment of risks and issues, and document recommendations  • Provide application architecture and produce technical documentation / artifacts in accordance with SDLC guidelines  • Collaborate business & IT teams during design, develop and implementation  • Code review/refactoring to ensure standard design patters& coding s and best practices  Technology Stack  C#, MVC, Web API, Entity Framework, WCF, jQuery, JavaScript, SQL Server, LINQ Software Engineer Citytech Software Pvt. Ltd - Kolkata, West Bengal April 2014 to May 2016 Senior Developer Citytech Software Pvt. Ltd - Sydney NSW April 2013 to May 2016 Description:  A CMS based Web application developed on Kentico CMS 7.0. It has all the features of standard CMS Web application for real-estate domain  • Plan, Design, Develop & Implement software applications using MS DotNet Technologies (New Developments)  • Troubleshoot, optimize and improve existing applications (Tech Ops /Prod Support)  • Work with Product Owner to translate business requirements and to deliver quality components and products on time.  • Perform technical assessment of risks and issues, and document recommendations  • Provide application architecture and produce technical documentation / artifacts in accordance with SDLC guidelines  • Collaborate business & IT teams during design, develop and implementation  • Code review/refactoring to ensure standard design patters& coding s and best practices  Technology Stack:C#, MVC, Web API, Entity Framework, WCF, jQuery, JavaScript, SQL Server, LINQ, Kentico    Innoware, Malaysia Aug'2011 to Apr'2013Software Developer (AM Infosystems Pvt. Ltd)  Description:  Developed the application using Asp.net and used WCF for service layer for pushing and pulling data from SQL  Responsibilities:  • Plan, Design, Develop & Implement software applications using MS DotNet Technologies (New Developments)  • Troubleshoot, optimize and improve existing applications (Tech Ops /Prod Support)  • Work with Product Owner to translate business requirements and to deliver quality components and products on time.  • Perform technical assessment of risks and issues, and document recommendations  • Provide application architecture and produce technical documentation / artifacts in accordance with SDLC guidelines  • Collaborate business & IT teams during design, develop and implementation  • Code review/refactoring to ensure standard design patters& coding s and best practices  Technology Stack:C#, MVC, Web API, Entity Framework, WCF, jQuery, JavaScript, SQL Server, LINQ Software Engineer AM Infosystems Pvt. Ltd - Kolkata, West Bengal October 2012 to April 2014 Software Engineer / Developer S.S.Microsystems India Pvt. Ltd - Kolkata, West Bengal June 2012 to October 2012 R.R.Infocom - Kolkata, West Bengal July 2007 to May 2012 Software Faculty    Engagement Summary Govt. Of West Bengal - Kolkata, West Bengal July 2007 to July 2011 Software Faculty (R.R.Infocom)  Description:  Giving training to Students on Various preliminary technologies like VB 6.0, C, MS Office.  Responsibilities:  • Preparing study plan  • Helping out student for doing there Project at the end of the course  Technology Stack: C#, VB 6.0, C, MS Access Education Bachelor's