Sr. .Net/UI Developer Sr. .Net/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. .Net/UI Developer - GEICO Chevy Chase, MD • A Result Oriented Professional with 9+ Years of work experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications using User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, JavaScript & UI Libraries/Frameworks, AngularJS, jQuery, JSON, Twitter Bootstrap, HTML, HTML5, XSLT, Ajax, CSS3, CSS Frameworks, Jasmine Unit Test Framework, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, IIS, WCF, AJAX, Web Services, CSS, and SQL Server.  • All the client-side validations on front-end are done using JavaScript, Struts framework and in server side with Servlets and XML.  • Worked on Java, SQL, HTML/CSS; JavaScript, Eclipse and IBM RAD, and built tools such as Ant or Maven.  • Expertise in Developing Responsive Design, REST Service Application with Reusable Code and High Quality & Performance using suitable Front-End Technologies.  • Responsible for front end design and scripting using java script, JQuery and Angular JS framework.  • Experienced developing SPA's using web technologies AngularJS, HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, and Bootstrap and CSS3.  • Experienced in using various Angular bootstrap directives like modal, popover, tooltip collapse etc.  • Extensively used various components of AngularJS like Angular Directives, Angular Controllers, Angular DOM, Angular Services, Angular Events, Angular Modules and Angular Validations.  • Experienced with media queries and writing device specific CSS and performed client-side validations using Angular directives.  • Cross browser compatibility testing and intellectual challenges in User Experience (UX).  • Experience in working with clients on-site, analyzing software requirements and developing solutions and procedures.  • Experience in taking performance optimization measures for web applications, reducing the response time and enhancing the end user experience.  • Good working knowledge in designing Use Case, Class, Sequence, Collaboration, State, Component, Deployment, Activity diagrams using UML.  • Experience in designing the data access layer using Entity Framework and standard ADO.NET Framework. And client management design, development, testing of business/commercial applications using MVC 5.0, XML, Web API, WCF, Ajax, Web Services, Web forms, WinForms.  • Proficient in developing and consuming services using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Good experience in designing the databases, data modeling and writing stored procedures and triggers using SQL Server, MongoDB.  • Tracked project metrics including team progress, productivity, and schedules and provided reports to management to support strategic planning initiatives.  • Evaluated and implemented new initiatives on process and technology improvements.  • Strong communicator with excellent interpersonal and leadership skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. .Net/UI Developer GEICO - Chevy Chase, MD September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in technical development and support activities of project solutions.  • Developed/Modified front end UI using HTML, DHTML and CSS.  • Designed User Interface using ASP.NET Pages, Web Controls, Custom Controls, User Controls, HTML, and Style Sheets and ASP.NET for Middle tier processing.  • Designed Created and Implemented new relational tables and upgraded the existing tables.  • Designed and developed user-interface for major modules of the project using ASP.Net controls.  • Designed and Implemented Data Access Assemblies using ADO.  • Performed Form validation by adding validation controls and implemented user controls and custom controls and role based authorization.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.  • Used Angular.JS framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  • Responsible for front end design and scripting using java script, JQuery and Angular JS framework.  • Created Angular.JS Controller Which Isolate scopes perform operations in UI.  • Used JavaScript Validate input values on forms to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server.  • Maintaining existing web site and various applications and associated databases, proactively interacting with all web services.  • Fixed number of defects during implementation and debugged the application within the deadlines.  • Involved in testing UI design and workflow of the application.    Environment: .NET 2.0/3.0, ASP.NET 2.0/3.0, C# 3.0, Visual Studio 2005/2008, MS SQL Server 2005, IIS 6.0, WCF, LINQ, Crystal Reports, Entity framework, VSS, AJAX, ADO.NET, XML, SOAP. Jr. .Net/UI Developer Volkswagen - Auburn Hills, MI February 2015 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Used MS Visio to develop UML diagrams  • Created and consumed WCF services in the Service layer.  • Developed SOA Application using Services layer, Business Logic Layer, Presentation Layer and Database Layer.  • Extensively used Master Pages to achieve a consistent look and feel of the web site.  • Implemented Authentication in ASP.NET application  • Involved in developing Web Services and invoking them by using XML, SOAP and WSDL for creating proxy classes.  • Used ASP.NET to create event driven Web Forms and used Validation Controls to implement form validation.  • Worked on SQL Server 2008 to access the database in an efficient manner using ADO.NET.  • Extensively used Data binding concept to display the required data.  • Strong hands on setting up connections and working on the Relational Database Management (RDBMS) like SQL server.  • Involved in creating stored procedures, triggers, and views in SQL Server 2005 for data manipulation and retrieval using T-SQL.  • Designed and normalized data base. Created sophisticated views and stored procedures to get, insert, update and delete the data from the data base.  • Created and Updated Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Performed Unit testing using Visual Studio.  • Worked closely with the team on new feature development, defect fixing and major enhancements.    Environment: .NET Framework 2.0, C#.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, ASP.NET 2.0, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, SQL server, T-SQL, IIS, Crystal Report, Visual Source Safe, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, JQuery, AJAX, Adobe Dreamweaver, SVN, Firebug, SQL, Windows XP and MS Office. Net/UI Developer PPS InfoTech - Rockville, MD August 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)-Project Analysis, Requirements, Design, Development, Testing, Documentation and Deployment.  • Involved in the software development cycle from user requirements to design, development, testing, deployment and production support.  • Design Web pages using ASP, HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Performed User Input Validation using JavaScript.  • Developed and designed several pages in MVC4 with razor.  • Extensively used and customized complex ASP.Net server controls like Data grids, Calendar and more.  • Developed User Interface with ASP.NET Controls.  • Involved in the design, development and maintenance of the SQL Server 2005.  • Developed the applications using Visual Studio.Net 2008 in C#.Net and ASP.Net, and ADO.NET.  • Used Validation controls to validate the input Data using Validation Controls (like Required Field, Range, Custom and Compare validations).  • Developed ASP.NET web pages using Web Server controls and HTML.  • Used ADO.Net technology to connect the database.  • Used the concepts of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) techniques and created classes in C#.NET.  • Cross browser compatibility testing and intellectual challenges in User Experience (UX).  • Troubleshooting and analyzing the code for any bugs.    Environment: C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL Server 2008, VS 2008, IIS. Software Developer Alberta Legal Information Society, AB - Legal, AB April 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created new pages using Html, CSS and made modifications to existing applications and modules in accordance with client specifications.  • Participated in complete development life cycle activities like design, coding, testing and production release.  • Developed and integrated complex scripts using AngularJS and implemented various functionalities to current code  • Carried out stake holder meeting with the product owners to meet the need of clients and business.  • Translated technical requirements and design documentation into application modules using AngularJS, JSON and JavaScript.  • Created various API's to communicate for accessing web services to store data onto database  • Modified and added various styles to current code using CSS and LESS preprocessor.  • Deployed the modified code to the server using Jenkins.  • Worked with Bootstrap and ported a significant portion of the application, using LESS to manage CSS consistency and reuse.  • Developed, Maintained, enhanced and recommend solutions that best suit the business and technological needs from the Enterprise application standpoint.  • Defined technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Analyzed and fixed the defects identified during Unit testing and UAT.  • Wrote AJAX calls to populate tables, tab menu and other components with JSON data in AngularJS.  • Worked closely with back-end developers to ensure the integrity of the UI throughout the development life cycle.  • Developed cross-browser/platform pages using CSS3 Media Queries and AngularJS to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Participated in project planning session with team members to analyze development requirements.    Environment: HTML5, XML, CSS, LESS, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Angular2, NodeJS, C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, Bootstrap, AJAX, Jenkins, SpreadJS, Wijmo5, Visual studio 2010, SQL Server Management studio, Microsoft Team Foundation Server. Application Developer Bellamy Software, AB June 2009 to March 2011 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP/JSON  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML (HTML, CSS and JavaScript)  • Responsible for developing various static and dynamic modules which are displayed in different web pages per the specifications.  • Created Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using UML with Microsoft Visio and prepared technical specification document.  • Actively coded the User Interface, Business Logic and Data Access Components using ASP.Net MVC 2.0, JavaScript and C# using Visual studio.  • Extensively used DHTML, Ajax control tool kit, Ajax JS libraries for asynchronous and partial post backs in various web pages.  • Created models, views and controllers in MVC 2.0.  • Extensively worked on creating Custom Controls, User Controls and Master Pages for web pages.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript, Ajax.  • Created XML overlays based on the configuration requirements of the client to change the look and feel of the product and add display data from custom fields.  • Performed querying to database using LINQ to SQL and querying to XML files using LINQ to XML.  • Visual Studio tool has been used to design, debug and deploy the entire application.  • Assisted in developing Tables, Triggers, Views, stored procedures and updating the SQL Server database and Optimized SQL Server Stored Procedures using joins & indexes.    Environment: .Net Framework 3.5, ASP.Net, MVC 2.0, C#.Net, XML, XAML, WCF (Windows Communication Foundation), LINQ, JSON, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, SASS, JQuery, HTML, Visual Studio SQL Server. Education Bachelor's Skills .net (9 years), Asp (9 years), Asp.net (9 years), C# (9 years), Html (9 years) Additional Information Skills & Expertise:    Languages J2EE, Java, C#, ASP.Net, ADO.NET, LINQ,  UI Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, UI Concept Modeling/Wire framing, Telerik Controls  UI Frameworks Angular JS, Backbone JS, Node JS, Require JS, Angular 2, knockout JS, JQuery, ExtJS, DOJO, JSON  .Net Technologies Microsoft .Net Framework, ASP.Net, MVC, Silverlight, Web Forms, Win Forms, WPF, WCF, ADO.Net, LINQ  IDE, HTML Editor Microsoft Visual Studio 2015, Eclipse IDE, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Edit Plus, Sublime text, JSfiddle.  Web/App Servers Tomcat Application Server, WebSphere Application Server V4.0, V5.X, V7.0)  HTTP Web Server, IIS  Testing tools Karma, Jasmine, QUnit, NUnit    Methodologies Agile, Rational Unified Process(RUP), Waterfall  Database MySQL, SQL Server, MongoDB    Operating Systems Windows, Mac, UNIX and LINUX