Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Cisco Systems Fremont, CA Currently working as Senior Software Engineer with Python, Docker and Kubernetes. Developing and automating tasks for more than 15 years. Always working or looking to work on a challenging and rewarding position where I can continue learning and using all my knowledge. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA March 2018 to Present USA.  Ensure software quality of DNAC (Digital Network Architecture) by performing functional/Scale testing    - Prepare the test plan  - Automate using Python and robot framework  - Prepared the docker image to deploy the build in DNA Network Architect Tata Consultancy Service - El Segundo, CA September 2017 to March 2018 USA  bring up the modules to resolve the real time Challenges which we are facing in networking environment  - Designing and Development using Ansible, MongoDB and Python  - Bring up the module to fetch and patch the VSM configuration  - Bring up the iDrac and CMC module to configure the Dell Server Associate Consultant Tata Consultancy Service - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2013 to August 2017 -India  Ensure software quality of SDN controller by performing functional/Scale testing  - coding using Python and Robot Framework  - Bring up the testing environment using open stack  - KPI automation using python Software Engineer Cisco Systems (I) Pvt. Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2008 to November 2013 India  Ensure software quality of routers by performing functional and manual testing  - Coding using TCL and ATS framework  - Developed a module start the regression on multiple testbed/production using TCL  - Developed a module to analysis the failure and also associated bugs based on the feature  - Developed a module to bring up the network topology Senior Software Engineer • Net O2 Technologies Pvt. Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu November 2005 to May 2008 India  Ensure software quality of L2/L3 Switches by performing functional and manual testing  - Protocol stack development for Ospf/Ospfv3 using C  - Coding using TCL and ATTEST framework  - Designing Test plans for L2/L3 Protocols Software Developer Nanda Solutions Pvt. Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2003 to October 2005 India  Developed the software for financial report  - Involved in Design and Development  - Coding using VB, SQL and crystal Report  - Provide support to customer Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Bharathidasan University 1999 to 2003 Skills Docker (1 year), Perl (2 years), Python (7 years), Scripting (10+ years), Tcl (5 years), AWS (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/thilakkumar-iyyadurai-230aa9b6 Additional Information SKILLS    ? Development/Scripting Languages: Python, Perl and Tcl  ? Cloud Technology: AWS and OpenStack  ? Networking  • L3 Protocols: OSPF, BGP, MPLS and L3VPN  • L2 Protocols: STP, IGMP and VxLAN  • SDN: OpenFlow Protocol  ? Traffic Generators: Ixia and Spirent  ? Database: Elasticsearch, MongoDB and MySQL  ? Container Technologies: Docker and Kubernetes.  ? Frameworks: Robot Framework, Jenkin  ? Orchestration Tool: Ansible