Sr. Net Developer Sr. Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Net Developer - Express - Scripts Atlanta, GA ? Over 8+ years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development involving Analysis, Design,Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation of Client/Server, Web Applications, Distributed Applications and Web Services using applications Microsoft .NET.  ? Expertise in developing Client/Server Applications on Three Tier Architecture, N-Tier Architecture, SOA (Service-oriented Architecture).  ? Good understanding and experience of .NET Framework 4.0/3.5/3.0, Visual Basic.  ? Have expertise in Singleton, Abstract Factory and Factory Method.  ? Well versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) using C#. Strong in front-end GUI development using C#, ASP.NET, HTML, DHTML XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX.  ? Experience in developing presentation layer using Web Forms, Windows Forms, Experience in developing the web applications using ASP.NET, MVC, C# and database accessing using ADO.NET.  ? Worked with .NET Server Controls, Web User Controls, Data Grid, Web Control, and Form Validation Controls and created numerous Custom controls.  ? Experience with different kinds of services like WCF, Web services.  ? Extensively worked on developing applications using ASP.NET, WCF, MVC, C#, Visual Studio 2010, AJAX, JQuery, NHibernate, Entity Framework and LINQ.  ? Developed Data Access Layer (DAL), Business Logic layer (BLL) also in implementing Business Processes, Abstract factory as part of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using C#.  ? Created Entity classes, relationships between entity classes using LINQ (Language Integrated Query) to SQL to manage relational data as objects.  ? Worked in Service Oriented architecture with a good understanding of WSDL, UDDI, XML-RPC, Remoting etc.  ? Expert in writing Complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, T-SQL Statements using them with ADO.NET.  ? Expertise in developing AngularJS as the development framework to build a single page application.  ? Expertise in developing UI using Bootstrap 3.2, AngularJS, ASP.NET, AJAX, JQuery, XML, CSS, JavaScript.  ? Working knowledge in implementing client-side JavaScript, JQuery, proficient in HTML, CSS.  ? Extensively used Data Reader and Datasets in ADO.Net to retrieve, display, edit and update data in the database.  ? Good Working Knowledge of database design and development, which includes: creating tables, indexes and triggers, views, performance tuning using SQL.  ? Developed static reports using SQL Server Reporting Services and deployed the reports (RDL files) in SQL Server [ ]  ? Excellent analytical skills with proficiency in debugging and Problem solving.  ? Experience with MS Office2007, 2010, 2013.  ? Used source control tools Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual Source Safe (VSS) for version controlling of the Application.  ? Have expertise in technical design documentations using UML modeling, OO analysis, design, agile methodologies and design patterns.  .NET Technologies  ASP.NET 4.5/3.5, SilverLight 5/4/3, WPF, AJAX.NET (Ajax Toolkit 2.0), .NET Framework [ ] ADO.NET, WCF, Win Forms, Web Forms, Web Services, LINQ, Entity Framework.    Languages C, C++, C#.NET, VB.Net  Integrated Development Environment Visual Studio (2005, 2008, 2010)  Web Languages XML, HTML, CSS  RDBMS MS SQL Server 2012  Scripting Languages JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML)  Web/Application Servers Internet Information Services [ ]  Operating System Windows 7, Vista, Windows XP/NT/2000, Linux & UNIX  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, SSRS  Version Control TFS, Visual Source Safe 2005 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Net Developer Express - Scripts - Trenton, NJ May 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Gathered User Requirements, designed the Framework using UML that included identifying the use cases and its surroundings, drawing Use case diagrams, identifying classes, drawing class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  ? Application design based on n-tier Architecture and Implemented Design patterns in all the layers.  ? Designed user interface for web forms using ASP.NET and implemented business logic using C#.NET.  ? Worked on Agile Methodology to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  ? Developed dynamic ASPX pages for Application using ASP.NET MVC 3, C#.NET, HTML and JQuery.  ? Extensively involved in developing components for Business and Data tier using C#.NET, ADO.NET and also involved in creating controllers to handle the events raised on the Razor views in ASP.NETMVC3 framework.  ? Extensively used ADO.NET objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, Dataset and Data View for reading and updating records in the database.  ? Experience in developing Web Services and invoking them by using XML, SOAP and WSDL for creating proxy classes.  ? Used JQuery to add slick animations and effects to elements, and used simple Ajax techniques and methods.  ? Used extensively JavaScript and ASP.NET for AJAX Implementation and Client Side Validations.  ? Used Web Services for communicating with other application and components.  ? Used ASP.NET MVC3.0 Data annotations and JQuery to do validations on the Model Data.  ? Implemented AJAX calls from the View to get data asynchronously without posting the whole View.  ? Developed system services SOA application platform for use by all web applications utilizing WCF services.  ? Developed and consumed the Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) servers to push the jobs and provide the rules for downstream applications.  ? Responsible for developing WCF Service Libraries to exchange data between Desktop and Central Application and implement business logic.  ? Experience in working with LINQ to Datasets, which uses ADO.Net to handle the communication with the database.  ? Extensively worked with LINQ provider and designed the user level application which will build and execute a query expression for Server Side.  ? Developed different User Controls which inputs the data and display the data for the web applications using ASP.NET and WPF.  ? Written SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Backup and Restore Database, defining roles, creating database users, Assigning Roles to users in SQL Server 2012 using T-SQL.  ? Extensively used Report Wizard, Report Builder and Report Manager for developing reports and deploying reports in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  ? Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server for the purpose of version Control and source code maintenance needs.  ? Involved in Unit testing, Modular testing, Regression Testing and successful integration of modules and multiple layers in the system.    Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, C#.NET, Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2012, HTML, LINQ, T-SQL, IIS 7.0, ASP.NET MVC 3.0, Entity Frame Work 4.0, JSON, JavaScript, WCF, WPF, Web services, WSDL, SOAP, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, XML, TFS, Windows 2008 Server. Sr. Net Developer Atmel Corporation - San Jose, CA March 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Designing and development of web forms of the e-Clearinghouse using ASP.NET Web and custom controls.  ? Involved in analysis, Design and coding for the Windows based Intranet application.  ? Implemented SOA using Microsoft web services  ? Created View models and wrote client side validations using JQuery.  ? Worked on the enhancement of the application focusing majorly on ASP.NET, JavaScript, and JQuery, based on the requirements from the business.  ? GUI was developed using C#.NET and ASP.NET.  ? Developed Server side programming using C#, ASP.NET  ? Used performance-tuning techniques to reduce garbage collection times with the help of CLR profiling.  ? Create and Maintenance of the Database tables and perform backup of the tables.  ? Developed the SQL Server Stored Procedures, Views and User-Defined Functions that are required for the application in MS SQL Server 2008R2.  ? Designed and developed application in a MVC design pattern that converts database views to hierarchical XML documents which are then streamed to the ASP presentation layer.  ? Responsible for designing ASP.net application authentication using .net framework, model view controller MVC4, and IIS security model.  ? Modifications were made to the existing GUI using WPF for better look and feel.  ? Developed runtime animations using MS Silverlight and WPF.  ? Used threading for operation to insert record simultaneously  ? Implemented development standards with team members.  ? Responsible for documenting the requirements specification.  ? Performed Unit testing to ensure the application functioned as per the design and requirement.  ? Designed and Developed Web forms using ASP.NET, XML and XSL.  ? Used ASP.NET Server Controls and HTML, DHTML controls to design the web pages.  ? Involved in writing the programming code for web pages using ASP.NET, C# object Model.  ? Used ADO.NET Object Model to Interact with SQL Server Database using C#.  ? Designed and developed application in a MVC design pattern that converts database views to hierarchical XML documents which are then streamed to the ASP presentation layer using Asp.net.  ? Developed Tables, Indexes, Stored procedures, Database Triggers and Functions  ? Data Layer using SQL Server 2008R2.    Environment: C#, ASP.Net 4.0, ADO.NET, Visual Studio2008, .NET Framework 3.5, Windows Server 2008, JavaScript, HTML, XML, IIS 6.0, SQL Server 2008R2, Smart Client Technology, Sr. .Net Developer Nook.com - Santa Clara, CA December 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developed .Net library project using C# and provides middle layer components HTTP module and will be distributed to all DIIT developers via MSI package with full blown MSDN style help document using NDOC 1.3  ? Created different business classes and interfaces using .Net Frame work 4.0 with Object Oriented Programming Methodology.  ? Used MVC for designing the web services using ASP.Net.  ? Designing and developing the web forms using ASP.Net 2.0.  ? Used Test Driven Development (TDD) to remove duplication in project and improve the design.  ? Used CSS (cascading Style Sheets) in ASP.Net pages.  ? Created user controls and custom controls for common purpose in the whole application.  ? Using JSON for request and response from web services and manipulated the result as accordingly.  ? Created the custom user grid view control which includes the sorting and paging.  ? Use data set , data view and data adapter to manipulate the data  ? Used win forms to develop in GUI using C#.Net for the IPF3 application.  ? Involved in relational database diagram design and table design in SQL server.  ? Created sorted procedures, views, triggers and complex T-SQL queries in SQL server.  ? Involved in unit testing and bug fixing.  ? Designed and developed desktop application using Win Forms.  ? Involve in creating the read only API's application for other applications.  ? Ingenuity for creation of reusable objects and engines.  ? Facilitated problem solving and collaboration.  Environment: Visual studio 2010, MVC, c#, SQL Server 2008, Win Forms, Active directory, Visual Source Safe 6.0, NDOC 1.3, Windows server 2003, JSON. Net Developer Digital Kalos - Somerset, NJ October 2011 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Analysis, Design and coding and implementation of application  ? Used MVC for designing the web services using ASP.Net.  ? Designed and developed the web forms using ASP.Net 2.0.  ? Design and develop front ends for the application to support business rules using C#.  ? Development of component classes and interfaces in C# encapsulating the business logic with strict adherence to object oriented paradigms.  ? Develop and deliver integration applications using WebSphere Enterprise Service Bus (ESR).  ? Using CSS (cascading style sheets) in ASP.Net pages.  ? Created user controls and custom controls for common purpose in the whole application.  ? Responsible for implementing and development of WCF Services.  ? Designed and developed the complete front-end application using the ASP.Net with C# as code behind for internal processing.  ? Involve in web service unit testing using SOAP UI tool.  ? Developed and hosting the WCF services on IIS by following the Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  ? Implemented the functionality to render data using XML files and format them using XSLT.  ? Involved in database diagram design and table design SQL server.  ? Created stored procedures, views, triggers and complex T-SQL queries in SQL server.  ? Implemented SSIS packages to update SQL data table from oracle server.  ? Created and developed SSIS packages to production, schedule them to run on routine basis and monitor error log for errors  ? Effectively communicated with application representatives from both IT and business to resolve the issue.  ? Prepared the CMS template.  ? Integrated application with CMS.  Environment: Visual studio 2008, .Net Framework 3.5, ASP.Net, c#, MVC, Ajax, SOAP, WCF Services, SOA , CMS, XML, JavaScript, SQL Server 2005 and TFS Software Engineer Austin, TX July 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Member of the ORION Hybrid team which was responsible for implementing an n-tier windows application with focus on robustness, security and performance.  ? Designed wire-frame diagrams to assist in UI development. Created ER diagrams to help implement the database design using Visio.  ? Developed the front-end Windows forms using C# and Infragistics controls.  ? Used Road Net and ESRI maps in the Windows Forms to show the routes of the packages to be delivered to the customer.  ? Improved the animation, dynamic interaction and efficiency of web pages using JQuery UI and JSON.  ? Created various classes in the WCF Service Library which acted as the business layer for ORION Hybrid project. Deployed the service library in IIS using WCF Web Service application.  ? Developed Build related tools to deploy MSI's on the Servers and Client locations.  ? Created/Modified tables, stored procedures and triggers in T-SQL based on the ER diagrams and business requirements.  ? Created reports using SQL Reporting Services that were used by managers. Used Business Intelligence Studio IDE for the same.  ? Improved Exception and Error Handling by giving ownership of the messages to the support team. This was done using a Windows service. A front end application was developed for browsing the error messages using WinForms.  ? Responsible to use Serena version Manager to maintain the Versions of Code.  ? Created test cases and performed unit testing of the various modules developed using VS Unit Test projects.    Environment: .NET Framework 3.5, Visual Studio 2010, Serena Version Manager, Visual Source safe, C#, ASP.NET, XML Web Services, MS Enterprise Library, WCF, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, SQL Server 2008, Agile Methodology, IIS 5.0, Infragistics. Software Engineer Verizon - Irving, TX May 2009 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for Analysis, Design, Coding and Implementation and Maintenance of full software development life cycle (SDLC).  ? Designed and developed the ASP.Net pages for internal processing and framework.  ? Designed and developed the complete front-end application using web Forms with C# as code behind.  ? Used CSS (cascading style sheets) in ASP.Net pages.  ? Created user controls and custom controls for common purpose in the whole application.  ? Used SQL server2000 as a database and also created stored procedures.  ? Used client side validation to forms using JavaScript.  ? Involved in database diagram design and table design to SQL server.  ? Created stored procedures, views, triggers and complex T-SQL queries in SQL server.  ? Used VSS for source control, data collection, reporting and project tracking.  ? Also developing a print reports for using a crystal report.goo  ? Also involved in testing and implementation of the web application.    Environment: Visual studio 2003, ASP.Net, VB.Net, Internet Information Service (IIS 5.0), JavaScript, ADO.Net, SQL Server Education Bachelor's Skills C#, WCF, WPF, .Net, MVC