Sr. Java Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Capital One McLean, VA, VA, VA, VA Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Capital One - McLean, VA November 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involve in gathering, analyzing and documenting business requirements, functional requirements and data Specifications for application development.  • Develop/program new functionality and features in line with functional specifications and business requirements.  • Provide recommendations to management concerning issues of programmer productivity and software development management.  • Develop core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using spring framework.  • Re-factor existing code structure to separate core business logic and Data Access Objects (DAOs).  • Implement Hibernate for data persistence and management.  • Analyze and fix issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  • Write database queries and programs for data insertion, updates and views.  • Design and develop the presentation layer using JSPs, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Involve in design, configuration, development and bug-fixes.  • Conduct system analysis and development, with limited support from professional staff, to keep our systems current with changing technologies.  • Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC  • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider. This feature was implemented using REST.  • Analyze, design, development of software systems to form a basis for the solution of information processing problems.  • Responsible for analysis of current programs including performance, diagnosis and troubleshooting of programs presenting challenges and design solutions to overcome such.  • Responsible for developments with clients and third parties in ensuring and meeting structural requirements.  • Configured various interceptors for transaction management, security, Audit logging(database) and logging using Spring AOP  • Used ANT scripts for automated deployment  • Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping  • Exported web services using JAX-WS Spring support. Extensive experience in production support.  • Implemented external customer page using Spring MVC pattern and IOC.  • Automation of deployment and enhancement of web services testing framework primarily Jbehave.  • Involved to work CA IDM web service interface is to allowed third party applications.  • Integrated Hibernate with spring by coding a Spring Configuration file.  • Enhanced database application for better data recovery connecting to Q/kdb database.  • Conduct functional and performance testing.  • Respond promptly and professionally to bug reports.    Environment: Java 1.6, Spring Framework 4.0, Hibernate, Oracle 10g, JPA, Web Services, REST,  WSDL, XML, JAXB, Web Sphere Server 7.0, DB Visualize, Logging, Ant. Sr. Java Developer American Express - New York, NY October 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and created UML diagrams such as Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts for the Optimization module using Microsoft Visio and UML.  • Developed the application using Java/J2EE standards and guidelines.  • Developed the UI Screens using JSP, JavaScript and HTML and did the client-side validation with the JavaScript.  • Implemented scripting with Ajax and XML to dynamically refresh the page contents.  • Experience in working in Git repository.  • Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Extensively used Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Implemented Singleton, MVC, Front Controller, Intercepting Filter, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects design patterns.  • Created RESTful webserivces in pushing data to downstream systems  • Used Hibernate to deal with large databases the organization has implemented data access tier using Spring DAO.  • Write and modify database stored procedures, triggers, functions, and pl/sql Scripts.  • Data from UI layer sent through JMS to Middle layer and from there using MDB message retrieves Messages and will be sent to MQSeries.  • Used Spring IOC (Inversion of Control) to remove the object dependencies across the application.  • Used Maven application and deployed on WebLogic Application Server  • Integrated process into build system which auto-generates REST API documentation from source code  • Developed all the User Interfaces using JSP and spring MVC  • Implemented Data Access Layer Using Hibernate.  • Handled SSL Handshake security to REST Web Services.  • Created war files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool  • Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF  • Followed Spring MVC Framework for the development of the project.  • Used Oracle10g database tool to build, edit, and format database queries, as well as eliminate performance issues in the code.  • Used Oracle10g database for tables creation and involved in writing SQL queries using Joins and Stored Procedures. Tested, debugged and implemented the application using JUnit for unit testing.  • Unit Testing Java code using jUnit and Integrating with Jenkins.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high Quality Software.  • Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript and Bootstrap, connecting to a RESTful server on a different domain    Environment: java 1.6, Eclipse 3.5, BEA Web Logic 10.X, Git, Spring 3.x, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, JSP, Jenkins, JavaScript, HTML, JSTL, Bootstrap, Hibernate 3.X, XML, AJAX, ANT, UML, Log4j, Oracle 10g, JMS, REST, Web Services, Microsoft Visio, MQSeries, Windows XP, JUnit 3. Sr. Java J2EE Developer Dupont - Pioneer, IA August 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Interacting with the application users coordinating on application requirements and providing software solution.  • Extensive experience working in an Agile development environment.  • Worked on SOA architecture along with Mule to integrate the different applications for reliable and effective data exchange.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection.  • Developed server-side services using Spring Web Services (SOAP, WSDL)  • Enhancing the framework to improve the performance and to reduce the interface development time by introducing the xml based configuration.  • Developed Server-side programs and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed business logic layer using Spring Framework and integrated Hibernate  • Designed the system based on Spring MVC Model architecture.  • Used spring framework to achieve loose coupling between the layers thus moving towards Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) exposed through SOAP.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Used JMS and MDB's for asynchronous communication.  • Developed the User Interface validation framework using AJAX, Java Script.  • Designed and developed the application front end using Spring MVC, JSTL, HTML, JQUERY, AJAX, CSS, JSON and Java Server Pages(JSP).  • Worked on project build-script by using Maven.  • Converted Business to customer services into SOAP Services.  • Providing the technical solution for Complex production issues.  • Used SOAP client to interact with the services by providing the SOAP URL mapping.  • Experienced in writing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Cursors, Joins, Constraints, DDL, DML and User Defined Functions to implement the business logic.  • Responsible for Creating/Configuring monitoring tools and automate proactive monitoring tasks.    Environment: Java, JDBC, WebSphere, Hibernate, SOA, JSP, AJAX, WBIMB, WAS 7.0, SOAP, WSDL, PERL, ANT 1.6, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, JPA, JSTL, MQ Series, Tivoli, ITIL, Oracle and DB2 Java Developer January 2011 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, JSP, and AJAX.  • Used Spring JDBC to execute database queries. Created row mappers and query classes for DB operations.  • Used Spring framework for Dependency Injection and JDBC connectivity.  • Developed RESTful Web services client to consume JSON messages using Spring JMS configuration. Developed the message listener code  • Design HTML prototypes, visual interfaces and interaction of Web-based design.  • Developed the business components using EJB Session Beans.  • Involved in developing business components using EJB Session Beans and persistence using EJB Entity beans.  • Involved in the development of the services layer using design patterns such as Session Façade, DAO, and Value Object etc.  • Worked on JBOSS locally and WebSphere in higher environments.  • Involved in development of custom Servlet handling http request and response objects.  • Create JSP pages for the Customer module of the application. Coded a JS util file for commonly used JS validation.  • Developed Web service modules based on SOA architecture to consume services.  • Involved in developing the DAO layer to interact with MySQL database.  • Configured Data Sources on the server for database connectivity.  • Developed SQL queries including joins, unions that perform data retrieval for the application, according to the business rules.  • Actively involved in code review, performance tuning and bug fixing phases.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection, Threads, XML, and integrating the modules.  • Involved sending JMS message queues to different layers in the module.  • Good team player with ability to solve complex issues. Initiated team discussions to improved efficiency of the system.  • Hands-on experienced working with version controller tools such as SVN and JIRA as issue tracking software.  • Used Maven as the build tool and Tortoise SVN as the Source version controller  • Involved in the deployment of the application in Integration and Implementation environment.  • Used Subversion (SVN) as the configuration management tool to manage the code repository.    Environment: Core Java, UNIX, J2EE, EJB, XML Schemas, XML, JavaScript, JSON, CSS, HTML, AJAX, Hibernate, Design Patterns, Servlets, WebSphere, SVN, JUnit, JMS, MySQL, REST, JBOSS, Maven, Web Services, Apache Tomcat, Windows XP. Software Engineer CloudIO - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, testing and maintenance process of the application  • Used Struts framework to implement the MVC architecture  • Extensively used MVC architecture and JBoss for deployment purposes  • Created JSP, Form Beans for effective way of implementing Model View Controller architecture  • Created Session Beans, Entity beans for transactions with the database using JDBC  • Developed necessary SQL queries for database transactions  • Developed and maintained the application configuration information in various properties files  • Developed the presentation layer and content management framework using HTML and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed HTML front screens and validated user input using JavaScript  • Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to give a better view to the web pages.  • Scheduled execution of procedures using Unix Shell Scripts for updating of tables.  • Develop and deploy reporting engine process using multithreading.  • Implemented various complex PL/SQL queries.  • Used Eclipse for code development along with CVS for managing the code.  • Interacted with Business Analysts to come up with better implementation designs for the application.  • Interacted with the users in case of technical problems & mentoring the business users.  • Implement the best practices and performance improvement / productivity plans.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of essential information, such as loan status report.  • Used LOG4J & JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state    Environment: Core Java, Multithreading, J2EE, Struts 1.1, JSP 2.0, JMS, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML, JBoss, Eclipse, Oracle 9i. Education Bachelor's Skills Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Java, Spring, J2Ee