Android/IOS Developer Android/IOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android/IOS Developer - T-Mobile Harrisburg, PA • 9+ years of professional IT experience in Android/IOS/Java Web application development, testing & deployment in Consumer and Enterprise Applications.  • Design, develop and test consumer facing mobile app and e-Learning apps  • 4+ years of experience as an iOS developer working on various applications and versions of iOS including iOS 6/7/8/9.  • Strong experience with iOS development using ObjC. Solid understanding of software development life cycle.  • Good experience as a developer in designing, developing, implementing, testing and publishing apps on iTunes Store. Built Rich User Interface applications, integrating with various Databases and Client-Server applications in iPhone/iPad (iOS 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 6.1, 7.0, 8.0 Xcode 4.0, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 5.0, 6.0 Beta, 6.1) application development using Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, UIKit, MapKit, Google API, Facebook SDK, Push notifications, Location services, Bluetooth beacons, Firebase.  • Strong knowledge of Java for Android and ObjC, cocoa for iOS  • 3+years of experience in Mobile Application Development (Android) using Java.  • Expertise in creating and custom UIViews, Table Views, Tab Bars, MapViews, Page View and Navigation Bar.  • Experienced in working with Storyboard and Interface Builder.  • Experience with SOAP, REST and JSON HTML5 and Creating Web Services  • Developed apps using various iOS design patterns (MVC, Delegation).  • Highly expertise in integrating Push Notifications and Network Connectivity.  • Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Requirements Gathering, Project Design, Development, Support and maintenance phases to meet requirement of project and familiar with agile software development methodologies as well.  • Proficient with Java, C++, Objective C and Android SDK version Android 1.5 to Android 4.4(Gingerbread, Honeycomb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kitkat).  • Expertise in developing applications for android operating system using Eclipse IDE and Android Studio, SQLite, Java, XML, Android SDK and ADT plugin.  • Experience in working with scalable Android UI  • Experience in the use of SCM tools (SVN, Git, Maven), best practices and continuous integration  • Extensive experience in building mobile applications using Android framework APIs such as (Location, Camera, Animations, Maps).  • Experience in developing applications using Third-Party APIs such as Facebook and Twitter.  • Experience in design and development of Rich Mobile Applications using JavaScript, XML, CSS, and HTML.  • Experienced in database systems like MySQL and MS SQL Server to manage tables and created views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, and triggers for the fast retrieval and manipulation of data.  • Extensive use of Core Data for storing, retrieving, and manipulating application data in databases, XML, and binary formats.  • Experience in using SQLite Database, Content Providers and Sync Adapters for mobile data management.  • Experience on Android UI components such as Text View, ListView, Customized ListView, Menus, Edit boxes, Buttons, Checkboxes, Dialog boxes, Alert boxes, Action bars, and Spinners for various layouts in Application development.  • Experience in Graphic designing in Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator and Dreamweaver for rich user friendly front end contents.  • Experience in working with XML parsers, RESTful API's and server side technologies like Apache and PHP.  • Solid understanding of interfacing to back-end system using XML/JSON, REST/SOAP API.  • Experience in branching, pushing and merging codes with remote repository such as Git.  • Good knowledge in using Tortoisesvn to maintain software version control, pull requests for committed codes and peer-to-peer code review.  • Good understanding in Testing Mobile applications and bug tracking for the production team fixing.  • Proficient with UML Diagrams, Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams to design programming solutions.  • Self-motivated and excellent abilities to learn new languages and other concepts quickly, excellent interpersonal skills and abilities to communicate with team players. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android/IOS Developer T-Mobile - Atlanta, GA February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed, develop and maintenance of mobile applications (Android/iOS)  • Responsible to qualify release compatible for IOS, Android, Mobile web, web (Play store, Appstore).  • Participate in stand up meetings to report about scope of work, testing progresses, outstanding issues, blocking points and so on.  • Developed the activities and UI layers.  • Worked with UI Action Sheets, UI Table Views, Custom Cells, UI Scroll Views, Navigation Controllers, delegates and protocols.  • Worked with Cocoa Frameworks, which includes UI Kit, Foundation, UI Image Picker, UI Date picker.  • Responsible for UX  • Implemented Accessibility and Localizations on the application.  • Familiar with Core Animation / UI animation concepts.  • Performed different types of functional and nonfunctional testing such as exploratory, GUI, usability, smoke, regression, browser compatibility, platform compatibility, boundary and security testing on different mobile devices with different OS versions.  • Responsible for IOS and Android app build (XCode/Android Studio) and deploy to test locally and multiple registered devices.  • Execute ADB commands to test the app on Android platform ( major release components)  • Execute IOS native app, OS compatible (IOS 8 and 9 version).  • Performed UI, Regression, Functional and Back end testing for the applications.  • Implemented customized web view component to load HTML data.  • Worked on RESTful and SOAP Web service calls, XML and JSON parsing included in the project.  • Implemented the required GUI by making modifications to the xml files.  • Collaborated with the team by using the version controller GITHUB.  • Developed critical tools for this project like Customized Navigation bar, Page control and Scroll view.  • Worked on Web Service calls, XML and JSON parsing.  • Database and web service maintenance    Environment: Xcode, Objective-C, using ARC, Core Data and Auto Layout, GitHub for version control, XML, JSON Frameworks: UIKit, Core Location, Agile Scrum Methodology. Android SDK, Android Studio IDE, JSON, REST Web Services, XML, Crashlytics, Action-Bar and GITHUB, GPS Services, Google Maps. Bluetooth Beacons. Videogame Developer Fantage.com Inc - Fort Lee, NJ February 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in doing AGILE practices, attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings. Worked with an Agile, Scrum methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work with every iteration.  • Worked extensively with AS3 and HTML.  • Worked with Adobe Flash and Custom systems.  • Used RESTful and SOAP API services and maintained background image downloads, uploads, chat conversations, and messages from system.  • Worked as UX developer.  • Handled the client side session  • Used a Test-Driven Development (TDD) environment in a Scrum development methodology to provide end to-end development.  • Worked on Agile based development model.  • Worked with SVN to checkout and update the codebase changes.  • Worked in the internal process using SCRUM Agile methodology.    Environment: iOS 7.1/8.0, Xcode 6.0/6.3, Agile Methodology, iPad, iPhone, Objective-C, UIKit, JSON, XML, HTML5, CSS, REST, JavaScript, jQuery, SQLite. Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, Google Maps, AML and SQL Databases, Junit. Software Engineer UI Gesture Recognizers - Mexico City, MX February 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC gathering requirements, creating detailed Documentation which includes all Business  • Requirements and technical specifications.  • Worked with UI Gesture Recognizers.  • Worked with UIActionSheets, custom Date Pickers and Date formatters.  • Making network calls to the server using NSURLConnection and using the NSXML Parser for the data parsing.  • Web services used to connect to database using NSURL, NSURL Connection and GCD.  • Worked with UITableViews, Custom Cells, UIScrollViews, Navigation Controllers, delegates and protocols, NIB/XIB used for UI design.  • Core Location technology integration with Google Maps to determine real time location.  • Social media integration with Facebook and Twitter.  • JSON response parsing using NSJSONserialization.  • Implementation of iOS Design patterns using Category, Extensions, Protocols etc.  • SQLite Database integration.  • Well versed with App Deployment and providing IPA and apk for testing and app store/play store deployments.  • Performed initial agile team assessments and recommend and assist with the implementation of agile team structure for the teams and associated resources.  • Worked with Scrum of Scrum ceremonies for example standup meetings, Retrospectives, planning sessions etc.  • Extensively used MVC design pattern throughout the app for reusability and design changes.    Environment: iOS 4 and later, Objective-C, Xcode 4, Cocoa Touch, XML, iPhone Simulator, Eclipse, Java, Android SDK, Adobe Flash, AS3. Software Engineer MAPDATA June 2012 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Develop over 50 e Learning applications using Adobe Flash AS3  • Creating project and application architecture deliverables that are consistent with architecture principles, standards, methodologies, and best practices.  • Integrated a web-based content made with HTML.  • Lead in technical design sessions with the development teams and graphic design teams, including the creation of class models, sequence diagrams, component models, etc., and detailed design specifications to ensuring that architecture standards are followed.  • XML Response parsing using the NSXMLParser and NSXMLParserDelegate. JSON Response parsing using the SBJSON Framework.  • Responsible for defining technical evaluation criteria for product and technology selection and determining technical approaches to ensure all architectural solutions result in a coherent systems design.    Environment: AS3, Adobe Flash, Tortoise SVN, Agile Methodology, XML parsing, JSON parsing. Web developer Reddere, Ajijic, JAL. MEXICO January 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the client in understanding the requirements.  • Walkthrough the Detailed Designs and General Designs.  • Developed the User Interaction Screen using HTML.  • Developed the module to handle the access roles of the users for front-end system.  • Responsible for designing website UI  • Graphic design  • 3D rendering  • Photography    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, AS3, Adobe Suite, ArchiCAD, Newtek Light wave. Web Developer Larcom -Queretaro April 2008 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed 7 e Learning Web Applications.  • Developed front-end screens with HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Responsible for SCORM compliant applications.  • As a developer, coordinated with onsite team and client in understanding the business process and requirement understanding.  • Expertise in event driven programming with multiple active objects(sprites)  • Participated in daily meeting for enhancing the features for the portal.  • Preparation and review of Unit Test Plan, Unit Testing, Test Results review and other quality related work.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, DOM, Eclipse, AS3, Adobe Flash, Windows XP/07 and MS Office. Education Bachelor's Skills Embedded, Android Sdk, Android, GIT