ServiceNow Lead Developer ServiceNow Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> ServiceNow Lead Developer - Eminence IT Solutions Missouri (MO) ? IT professional with 12+ years of relevant experience in the field of ITSM and Web development. Extensive knowledge and experience in implementation and Administration of ServiceNow, Java and Asset Manager.  ? Working experience of various phases of SDLC such as Requirement Analysis, Design, Code Construction and Test.  ? Experience as a Service-Now suite developer and administrator  ? Experience working on different versions of ServiceNow: Eureka, Fuji, Helsinki, Geneva, Istanbul,Jakarta.London  ? Extensive experience on various IT Services of Service-Now including Service Catalog Requests, HR Case Management, Project Management, Change Management, Asset Management, Configuration Management, Service-Now Administration, Incident and Problem Management, Knowledge Management, Reporting, SLA, Gauges, Integration with Web Services.  ? Worked with BusinessRules, Client Scripts, UI Policies, UI Scripts, UI Actions, UI Pages, Script Includes, Access Control Lists etc. in ITIL/ITSM V3 processes.  ? Good working knowledge with email notifications, inbound actions, reporting, gauges, form administration, list administration and home page dashboards.  ? Implemented performance changes throughout different modules of ServiceNow by converting sync server calls to async, use of scratchpad, GlideAjax/Script Includes.  ? Loaded, manipulated and maintained data between ServiceNow and other systems using transform maps, import sets and expert knowledge in update set migrations.  ? Complex integrations within the ITSM environment such as Tanium, Smart Sheet, Web service integration with third party application.  ? Expertise on creation of workflows for Service Catalog items in Service-Now.  ? Good understanding of object oriented analysis design and application development.  ? Hands on experience in web development using HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, JQuery and XSL and application development using Java, JSP.  ? Strong team player, ability to work independently and in a team as well, ability to adapt to a rapidly changing environment, commitment towards learning, Possess excellent communication, project management, documentation, interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow Lead Developer Eminence IT Solutions - Morrisville, NC May 2017 to Present Service Management Platform - Continuous Improvement project: The main focus of this project to analyze and identify the processes that have to be re-designed , collectively work on performance issues, automations in order to provide better end user experience as well work towards better environment by adhering to best practices and ITIL methodologies.    ? Involved in implementation and development activities for various applications/modules within ServiceNow such as Change Management, Catalog Management , Agile Management, HR Case Management, Service Portal and so on.  ? Responsible to work on critical and high level issues causing business impact and guide support team as needed.  ? Acted as Lead Developer in critical HR project which involved complete re-design of HR Portal with leveraging HR Service Portal, Content Delivery, and usage of Advanced Knowledge Management.  ? Good working knowledge on creating/modifying complex workflows for different modules which include Service Catalog Management, Change Management, KnowledgeManagement, HR Case Management  ? Also worked on Asset Management, Product Catalog Items and usage of Vendor Catalog Items  ? Involved in Release Planning including Business Stakeholders , Business Analysts , product owners to identify and prioritize stories for current release.  ? Subject matter expert for developers & Advice team on leveraging tools and accelerators  ? Conduct workshops and meetings with key stakeholders to understand the use cases and requirements  ? Responsible for preparing and reviewing technical design/ specification documentation prepared by developers  ? Responsible for technical review of the requirements and solution for user stories during the sprint planning  ? Participate in training and the trainer sessions with Pearson stakeholders  ? Understand the technical requirements and guide development team towards successful product development  ? Ensure design and code reviews are performed for quality deliverables and adherence to best practice  ? Engage CoE and offshore team when required during the execution phase of the project when technical expertise is required  ? Also responsible and involved in performing pre/post clone activities for sub-productions.  ? Actively involve in planning and implementing the upgrade process of instances from Jakarta to London version.  ? Active participant in full life cycle of project involving project plan, scoping, timelines, project documentation,risk analysis.  ? Track development activities & testing team activities on a regular basis  ? Ensure release cycles and code promotions are performed effectively on the platform    Environment: ServiceNow - Jakarta/ London ,Lucidchart, Smartsheet, JIRA, Excel, Powershell, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular Js Senior ServiceNow Developer Eminence IT Solutions - Joliet, IL January 2015 to April 2017 The project is to provide an efficient knowledge management solution that makes it easy for help desk to create and manage knowledge content. And also provide a Self- Help site for customers and employees to be self-efficient to search for answers and report any issues.    ? Implementation, Customization and maintenance of ITIL modules such as knowledge, Service Catalog and other custom applications.  ? Working on improvisation and customization of service portal to create self-help site for end users, involved created/modifies pages, widgets using Html5, CSS3, JavaScript, ANGULARJS, Bootstrap  ? Responsible for implementation of Knowledge Management V3 , and moving and creating new articles using Knowledge V3 standards.  ? Involved in creating Transform Maps/Scripts, using import sets to upload the KB articles and updating the V2 version Knowledge articles to V3 version.  ? Creating/modifying various workflows for Knowledge Management from Submission process to Publishing/Retiring articles based on Knowledge Base.  ? Worked on identifying User Criteria and reconfiguring Can Read and Can Contribute aspects of Knowledge and Catalog.  ? Creating and working on Client Scripts/UI policies also with a lot of high -level customization and following SDLC process to work on user stories.  ? Involved and worked with Business Analyst to identify the requirements for new implementation and improvisations for Service Portal and Knowledge Management.  ? Responsible to maintain the change log including functional and technical changes involved in meeting a business requirement.  ? Also involved in Knowledge workshop to educate the knowledge, tech writers and make them familiar with Knowledge V3 version and general workflow of knowledge Management.  ? Worked on Fix Scripts and Background Scripts to update the data and import categories for Knowledge V3.  Environment: ServiceNow - Helsinki/ Jakarta, VB Script, Excel, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular Js Senior ServiceNow Developer Eminence IT Solutions - Benton Harbor, MI September 2012 to December 2014 Handled overall responsibility of newly implemented HR Case Management and worked as main resource to handle, design, review enhancements using Agile SDLC process. As part of CSI (continuous service improvement) process, worked towards improving our instance performance and identified best practices to redesign business rules, client scripts, other scripting and also modified workflows for automation.    ? Expertise in implementation, design and maintenance of HR Case Management and requirement gatherings as  ? Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident, Change, Problem, Project Management, Knowledge, Service Catalog and other custom applications using Agile SDLC process within ServiceNow SDLC module.  ? Working with HR Case Management, HR tasks, HR Service Catalog, HR knowledge.  ? Creating catalog items, workflows, inbound emails actions and configuring multiple Catalog Items Front-end web /GUI components using Html5, CSS3, JavaScript, ANGULARJS, Bootstrap  ? Responsible for reviewing, estimating and assigning stories to developers for HR Case management.  ? Created release document plans for monthly releases by capturing all the release stories along with update sets, manual steps or xml files that have to be moved across the instances.  ? Experience on integrations with ServiceNow using Email integration i.e. inbound actions scripting for Success Factors, Fax.  ? Experience designing and creating portal, portal pages, developing and implementing custom and out of box portal widgets  ? Worked on multiple integrations between SNOW and other third-party applications like Tanium, SmartSheet Integration, Nexpose, Avaya, Dell Boomi.  ? Participated in creating and modifying of various Email templates including handling different language versions.  ? Worked on outbound email integration set up with Amazon SNS for sending sms/text messages to different countries.  ? Worked on different type of translations for multiple languages like field labels, variables, messages, choices.  ? Involved in the upgrade process and worked on multiple modules both in Geneva and Istanbul.  ? Automated process of creation of records via catalog item within Workflows or using Record producers.  ? Design and implement new functionality using Business Rules, Client Scripts, UI Macros, UI Policies, and security access (ACL)for multiple modules by roles/groups.  ? Redesigned and modified many functionalities by writing Business rules/ Client Scripts and Script Includes to enhance performance by using best practices like using GLideAjax, display business rules, scratchpad  Environment: ServiceNow - Geneva/Istanbul, SmartSheet, Google Docs, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Windows 7. ServiceNow Admin/ Developer HCL America Inc - Cary, NC July 2010 to August 2012 Primarily responsible for the overall administration of the ServiceNow instances of the client. Working with stakeholders and reviewing the requirements to assess, design the technical approach for required enhancements or new development. Responsible for maintaining the overall release management of the instance, change process for ServiceNow development.    ? Handled overall responsibility of all the modules within ServiceNow - Incident management, Change Management, and Problem management, Service Catalog, Knowledge Management, User Administration, Reporting including all the enhancement requests/issues and supporting ongoing activities.  ? Requirement Gathering and Analysis, Design development and deployment of multiple Enhancements for each Module.  ? Worked on Multi-Domain separation model and maintaining separate domain for customizations specific to customer versus generic framework of HCL.  ? Involved in Upgrade process from Eureka to Helsinki, creating use cases, documenting all the customizations.  ? Responsible for handling all HI requests like cloning activities, instance upgrade, quarterly patching.  ? Worked on continuous improvement project for catalogs by creating standard workflows, defining variable sets, order guides to enhance service catalog experience.  ? Designed new workflows for Service Catalog, high impact incidents and also change requests. Also, re-designed, modified complicated workflows using workflow editor.  ? Involved in creation and modification of various business rules, client scripts, UIscripts, UIpolicies, UI actions.  ? Created and utilized Update Sets to migrate customizations from one instance to another instance.  ? Created Email Templates, Email Notifications and Inbound Email actions.  ? Created and modified SLA definition as per client requirement with the Incident Management applications.  ? Involved in creating and modifying UI pages - also utilized GlideDialogWindow to prompt with default template.  ? Worked extensively on LDAP integrations.  ? Working knowledge of Knowledge articles, incidents, CMDB and dictionaries.  ? Provided training sessions on reporting along with creating reports for management and general user training for different modules for service desk team and business users.    Environment: ServiceNow, Eureka/ Helsinki, Asana, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Windows 7. Software Engineer Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, MO April 2008 to June 2010 Solution Works - Charge Services: Charge Services is Cerner's solution and is an event driven method for capturing raw charge information and passing that information onto a billing system. The goal of Charge Services is to take an ordered event from point of order into Charge Services, turn it into a charge event, create a charge, and pass it on to a billing system interface. Charge Services by itself includes many applications for generating charge, to view a charge, to define rules for creating a charge, update a charge or price  ? Provides troubleshooting support by debugging code and recommend necessary code changes to the Development team to ensure quality  ? Investigates root cause analysis utilizing development languages and tools  ? Mentors and shares knowledge as an Intellectual Property Ambassador to help other members in the organization perform their job more efficiently  ? Communicate effectively and efficiently with internal and external clients / team  ? Works in accordance with corporate and organizational security policies and procedures.  ? Understands personal role in safeguarding corporate and client assets. Takes appropriate action to prevent and report any compromises of security within scope of role  ? Identify performance issues by understanding execution plans, table indexes, and statistics to recommend appropriate solution.  ? Debugging server code for scenarios where server crashes, or to understand the design logic for any given workflow  ? Various Applications and languages are used to debug and troubleshoot the issues    Environment: Eclipse IDE, Microsoft Visual Basic, Java, VB 6, C, SQL, Putty, Notepad++ and other other customized tools. QlikView Developer Team Business Solutions - San Mateo, CA February 2006 to March 2008 Worked on Developing and Designing complex user interface by using various charts and also developed Dashboards.  ? Responsible for Extracting, Transforming and Loading from different data sources like Sales force, BW cubes, MySQL, SQL, MS Access and different formats of Excel sheets.  ? Providing insight into financial performance and operational details of the company through Qlikview reports.  ? Involved during Requirement Phase for gathering and analyzing Requirements and Design and documentation.  ? Strong Knowledge in developing data model using Star and Snowflake Schema. Used Best Practices to remove circular references and synthetic keys.  ? Assisted in preparing presentation and training customers in Qlikview basics.  ? Good Knowledge of Qlikview Server/Publisher and also in the migrating process from Qlikview 9 to Qlikview 10.  ? Good Knowledge in Set analysis, Actions and Triggers to facilitate custom user functionality.  ? Exploring various features of Qlikview 10, Qlikview 11 and getting trained to expertise in Qlikview. Education Bachelor's Skills Html, Javascript, Xml, Xslt, Html5 Additional Information Technical Skills ;    ITSM Tools ServiceNow, ITSM Suite.  Languages Java 1.6, Java Script, SQL,PL/SQL  Databases Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2005  Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, DHTML, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSP  Application Servers IIS 5.0, Apache, Tomcat, Weblogic  RDBMS Oracle10g/11g, MS Access  Operating Systems Windows NT/2003 Server/XP and UNIX  IDE Eclipse IDE, Net Beans, Soap-UI, SQL