Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Capital Farm Credit Iola, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Capital Farm Credit - Bryan, TX May 2016 to Present • Develop web applications to aid the company in determining and selecting current loan products for clients  • Upgrading existing office based macro applications into either web applications or integrating into current plat forms such as Microsoft CRM  • Maintain current and previous applications to current compliance and audit specifications  • Determine how to represent current sales/loan data into an interpretable report for administrative decision making purposes Software Developer AgriLogic Insurance Services - Bryan, TX May 2014 to May 2016 • Develop web applications to aid the company in determining and selecting correct insurance rates for specific crops (GeoServer, Postgres, JavaScript, PHP, Angular.js, OpenLayers.js, and Leaflet.js).  • Determine rates for various crops utilizing spatial data.  • Maintain and develop various desktop applications for the insured to utilize in generating insurance paper work.  • Implement new procedures to warehouse relevant weather and insurance related data that is both spatial and non-spatial in nature.  • Maintain and develop new reporting venues to abstract the user from SQL Server. Director of Institutional Research Blinn College May 2013 to May 2014 • Analyzed data that promoted institutional advancement.  • Trained staff on the execution and implementation of Oracle Discoverer reports.  • Analyzed database decisions regarding integrity issues and future reporting.  • Collaborated with faculty and staff to develop and interpret reports.  • Modeled institutional trends such as enrollment.  • Evaluated potential impacts of past institutional decisions.  • Maintained and supervised the creation of reports for Blinn College using Oracle Discoverer, and developed PL/SQL (similar to T-SQL) scripts for processing needs outside of the scope of Oracle Discoverer. Data Analyst Blinn College February 2011 to April 2013 • Maintained and created reports for Blinn College using Oracle Discoverer, and developed PL/SQL scripts for processing needs outside of the scope of Oracle Discoverer.  • Integrated Microsoft applications for reporting purposes using VBA as needed.  • Submitted state reports as needed for the institution.  • Interpreted institutional and state data to develop reports and assist in the institutional decision making process.  • Contributed in the analysis of institutional budget data to make decisions regarding the institutional budget.  • Developed an integrated/automated budgetary process using VBA. Research Assistant Texas A&M University January 2009 to January 2011 • Developed a wild fire geo-database for the National Association of State Foresters.  • Maintained and entered data through the use of code via VB.NET, SQL, T-SQL and C# languages. Teaching Assistant Texas A&M University January 2006 to December 2008 • Developed, wrote, and administered an introductory online GIS course utilizing ESRI ArcMap©.  • Instructed students on basic spatial analysis techniques such as spatial calculations, geo-statistical analysis and basic spatial data manipulation, and aided them in conceptually solving spatial problems.  • Utilized statistical analysis to determine the effectiveness of course materials and instructional methods in the teaching of spatial problem solving. Education Doctorate of Philosophy in Forestry Texas A&M University - College Station, TX 2014 Master of Science in Rangeland Ecology Texas A&M University - College Station, TX 2009 Bachelor of Science in rangelands Texas A&M University - College Station, TX 2006 Skills ESRI (10+ years), Oracle (3 years), PL/SQL (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), GIS (10+ years), Javascript, PHP, ASP, .NET, Data Center Experience, Microsoft SQL Server, C# Additional Information SKILLS    Primary Programming Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, VBA, C#, PHP, ASP.Net, VB.Net 2.5-4.5, JavaScript, CSS, XML, HTML, Ajax  Secondary Programming Languages: C++, Python  IDE: Visual Studio.Net 2008/2010  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows Server, AWS (Apache & IIS)  Databases: SQL Server 2008, Postgres, Oracle  Tools utilized: Angular.js, Leaflet.js, OpenLayers.js, SOAP, REST  Open Source GIS: Qgis, GDAL, GeoServer  ESRI: ArcSDE, ArcObjects, ArcInfo, ArcEditor, ArcView, ArcServer