Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Developer - CDW Chicago, IL • 12+years total programming experience in Frontend and Backend of Web applications using best practices  • Strong professional backend Development experience using .Net in various applications based on Object Oriented Programming (OOP), Client/Server, N-tier architecture, Web based Technology.  • Strong professional frontend Development experience in various applications using Angular, React, Typescript, bootstrap, material, html, CSS, JQuery  • Proficient in database development, designing and developing in Microsoft SQL Server (2005/2008/2012), T-SQL, Stored procedure and functions.  • Coaching and mentoring Junior Developers  • Majority worked on software Design and Development using Visual Studio.net, C#, AspNet, .NET 4.6 Framework, .NET Core 2, Database Design and Analysis, Angular, MVC, WebApi, Entity Framework, LINQ To SQL, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular, React, React Native, Redux, GraphQL, Typescript, CSS, XML, Azure, Agile programming, Scrum, JIRA, Cruise Control, Resharper, Design Patterns, MVVM, WCF, GIT, TFS, SVN, IIS, VB.NET, Java, C++ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Developer CDW - Chicago, IL April 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Used C#, .Net 4.6, MVC, WebApi, SQL DB for Web application development.  • Maintain/Enhance the Web Application in ASP.Net MVC 4.0 and Web Forms in C# .NET  • Fix XSS/CSRF Website security/vulnerabilities related bugs  • Worked on customer centered functionalities on Ecommerce website Quotes, Orders etc.  • CDW ecommerce Websit  • Enhancements of existing system. This involves fixing bugs, adding enhancements and making security patches to counteract security threats such as XSS attacks. Senior Developer State of Michigan - Lansing, MI July 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities  • Worked directly with End User/stakeholders for requirement analysis.  • Identify and evaluate new technologies for implementation  • Participate in software design meetings and analyze user needs to determine technical decisions.  • Assist less experienced peers  • Developed Backend for Web Application using C#, .Net Core 2, MVC, WebApi, SQL DB for Web application development.  • Provide solution by restructuring code based on SOLID principles and/or Design patterns  • Developed Frontend for Web Application using Angular 2-7, Typescript, Angular Material, Bootstrap, for UI development.  • Created Reports using SSRS server  • Wrote Unit and Integration tests using Postman, Jasmine, Karma, TestCafe  • Migrate Legacy COBOL code to C# code.  • Workers Compensation Agency Internal and External website.  • This is new modernization project, consisting of replacing legacy systems by up to date  • technologies from scratch. Legacy systems that use Cobol, Mainframe etc is converted into using  • SQL server, C# and Angular 6. This has both internal and external facing web application. Developer Charles Schwab - Chicago, IL March 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities  • Involved in requirement gathering and analysis, designing and development.  • Used .Net framework 4.6, SOA architecture and OOP for application development.  • Developed the Web Application in ASP.Net MVC 4.0 and Web Forms in VB.NET  • Used ADO.NET to manipulate and fetch the data from database.  • Assist less experienced peers  • trading platforms into one. Charles Schwab bought OptionsExpress and this project is merging  • rading platforms of each into one system. This required a Quoting subsystem of each tradin  • platform to be merged into one Quoting subsystem and my responsibility is focused on the Quoting subsystem. Developer University of Health Consortium - Chicago, IL July 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities  • Developed the Web Application in ASP.Net MVC 4.0  • Used front end web development tools like CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular, JS Render.  • Developed Web Services using Web API 2 using C#.  • Used LINQ/Entity Framework/ADO.NET to manipulate and fetch the data from database.  • Used Highcharts and MS Chart frameworks to build different types of charts. Developer Project Leadership Associates - Chicago, IL April 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities  • Responsible for WebApi 2 and Backend development using ASP.NET MVC 5 framework, C# .NET programming Language.  • Used LINQ and Entity Framework to manipulate and fetch the data from database.  • Involved in Unit testing using NUnit. Senior Engineer Nokia - Chicago, IL February 2011 to March 2012 Responsibilities  • Redesigned Web application UI with Twitter Bootstrap Framework, HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Responsible for Web and Back End development in ASP.NET MVC 4 framework, T-SQL database and C# .NET programming Language.  • Used LINQ/EntityFramework to manipulate and fetch the data from database.  System used for Map data validation, scrubbing and comparison. NET Consultant Roundarch, Inc - Chicago, IL May 2010 to January 2011 Responsibilities  • Responsible for Web development in ASP.NET MVC 3/4 framework, T-SQL database and C# .NET programming Language.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript for web UI development  • Mentor and help junior developers to resolve the technical problems.  • Administration website for Air National Guard Local Advertising Program (LAP)  • Redesign of Air National Guard public website .Net Developer IT Concepts Inc - Vienna, VA June 2009 to April 2010 Responsibilities  • Maintaining and improving Public and Intranet Web application systems using ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, C#, .NET 4.0 Framework and JavaScript technologies  • Maintain existing legacy system which is platform for newly created applications.  • Designing and maintaining Administration sites and Customer Management system for existing intranet application.  • Mentor and help junior developers to resolve the technical problems.  • Ecommerce website for Travel and Resort Booking  • Back-end Administration web application for Maintaining Public Ecommerce sites  • Affiliates/Business Partners Administration and Management Web Application  • Customer Relation Management (CRM) Intranet Web application. Software Engineer Valley Health System - Ridgewood, NJ February 2007 to May 2009 Responsibilities  • Specifying Software Requirements and conduct requirement analysis  • Designing Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and User Interface.  • Developing and maintaining Applications by utilizing ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Win forms, and Console Programming Environments.  • Developing data access layers, business layers, web services and presentation layer.  • Auto-Attendant CTI (Computer Telephony Integration) Management Web Application  • Implemented CTI (Computer Telephony Integration) system on Dialogic platform  • Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system on Dialogic platform  • Clip Editing and Animation software for LED Display Board. UPMC - Pittsburgh, PA May 2006 to January 2007 Pittsburgh, PA May 2006 to Jan 2007  Mobile Network Security    Responsibilities  • Performing network security assessment on GSM/CDMA, IN telecom networks, and Web Applications.  • Identifying and documenting network vulnerabilities and Network Security Threats.  • Undertaking GSM Network Security Assessment  • Conducting User Acceptance Tests on WCDMA network expansion project. Education Bachelor's ,,,,, Certifications/Licenses Driver's License