Full Stack .Net Developer Full Stack .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack .Net Developer - Fannie Mae New York, NY • 10 years of experience in Information Technology involving all phases of SDLC that include Analysis, Development, Testing and Maintenance in ASP.NET platform across multiple business domains.  • Experience in Web development and Application development using Microsoft .NET Technologies like C#, ASP.NET 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0, MVC 3/4/5/6, Web API 1.0/2.0, ASPX, AJAX, CSS, WCF, ADO.NET, LINQ, HTML, HTTP, DHTML, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS and WPF.  • Experience in implementing various design patterns like Singleton, Abstract Factory, Repository, Data Transfer Object and Business.  • Experience in building Data Integration, Workflow Solutions and Extract, Transform, and Load (ETL) solutions for data warehousing using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS).  • Work experience on Windows Azure, Azure Active Directory, SQL azure, creating resource groups, subscriptions, build definitions and release definitions.  • Effectively used ASP.NET security infrastructure for authenticating and authorizing user access as well as performing other security related tasks using C#.NET.  • Experience in using Language-Integrated Query (LINQ) query and retrieve data from different data sources (LINQ to Objects, LINQ to XML, and LINQ to SQL.  • Hands on experience in developing SOAP and RESTful Web services.  • Experience in data access using ORM Tools such as LINQ to SQL and ADO.NET Entity Framework.  • Good working knowledge of Databases like SQL Server 2005/2008 R2/12/14/17, Oracle 10g/11g/12c, MySQL and DB2.  • Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD using CA rally, Jira tool.  • Experience in using of the version control software SVN, TFS, GIT and Bitbucket.  • Experience in developing Web Services to support interoperable machine-to-machine interaction over a network using SOAP over HTTP.  • Hands on experience in writing stored procedures, triggers and functions using T-SQL, PL/SQL.  • Experience working with Microsoft Azure Cloud based IAAS, PAAS and SAAS.  • Experience using NoSQL technologies - Azure Table Storage, Blob Storage, Queue, Document DB.  • Good knowledge and experience of UML, Unified Process at the Enterprise level and familiarity with popular process methodologies like Agile, Waterfall  • Expertise in Unit testing using NUnit, XUnit & Moq, Integration testing, Smoke testing & System testing.  • Hands on experience in implementing core areas of Programming such as Data Access, Security, Logging and Exception handling.  • Involved in the support and maintenance of the application during production phase.  • Experience in the development of Multi-Tier Architecture Distributed Applications.  • Worked in various verticals like Healthcare, Mortgage, Insurance, and Telecom.    Fannie Mae - Herndon, VA Jul2018-Till Date  Full Stack .Net Developer    Description:  Fannie Mae is leading source of financing for Mortgage lenders, Providing access to affordable Mortgage financing in all markets always. Fannie Mae build highly customized applications to solve business challenges through Automation, simplification and technology. Fannie Mae partner with the customers to design, Prototype and develop customized business tools. Fannie Mae imagine and create utility Applications that serve the needs of SFA and Fannie Mae. Fannie Mae experiment with new Technologies and ideas to pave the way for the future.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in JIRA Agile Scrum methodology and delivered accepted functionality in each sprint.  • Developed web pages using ASP. Net, C#, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, Java Script, VB script and IIS. Used ADO & ADO.NET (Datasets, DataAdapter) to connect with TOAD Oracle and SQL Server Database.  • Played a role in feature implementation and enhancement, code refactoring and defect fixing.  • Participated in UI design with Master Pages in MVC 5 and improved layout with HTML5, Bootstrap, and CSS3.  • Provided database connectivity using LINQ, designed stored procedures and views at the back end.  • Existing applications were Deployed to Azure after every enhancement  • Developed and Implemented WCF services layer hosted on Windows Azure.  • Developed PL/SQL triggers and master tables for automatic creation of primary keys.  • Used JSON web token to do user authentication and secure information exchange.  • Designed unit testing module with NUnit to test the application performance and availability  • Involved in code review, build and deployment with GIT, BitBucket and TFS.  • Worked on Web API and REST, JSON based development experience.  • Created an application in WPF that generates Silverlight Class library by taking XML file as an input.  • Worked with HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery for the UI development.  • Developed the front end using MVVM pattern and developed Client-side applications.  • Responsible for developing WCF Service to exchange data between UI and Business Logic.  • Extensively used JavaScript for UI interaction, XML for data transmission via WCF services and data manipulation using ORM Tools like LINQ.  • Wrote C#.NET, ASP.NET and Entity framework mappings, settings to define and implement secure middle-tier components using both connected and disconnected environment strategies.  • Developed Web API Services with HTTP way using standard HTTP verbs like GET, POST, PUT, DELETE etc. for all CRUD operations.  • Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented  • Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Develop Web Services and invoking them by using XML SOAP for creating proxy classes.  • Have used Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to develop web services.  • Assisted in designing and development of relational databases for supporting back-end designs.  • Resolved production support issues efficiently and closed on time on day-to-day bases  • Used JavaScript and Validation Controls for validating the controls.  • Used AJAX calls on our project using AJAX CONTROL TOOLKIT.  • Used Multicast Delegate for accessing different methods.  • Created Tree view for Site navigation in Master Page  • Used C# to write all the middle business layer logic.  • Created XML database of all different frequency levels.  • Working on Deployment to QA with Configuration settings.    Environment: ASP.NET 4.5, C#, MVC 5, Angular JS, AJAX, IIS, Toad Oracle, Oracle BLOB, XML, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, HTTP, Bootstrap, Entity Framework, ORM, Web Services, Azure, SQL Server, PL/SQL, REST, Web API, SOAP, WCF, WPF, JQuery, NUnit, LINQ, Log4net, Fiddler, Visual Studio 2015, JIRA, TFS, GIT, Bit Bucket.    GEICO - Fredericksburg, VA Jun2016-Jul2018  Sr. .Net Developer    Description:  This client offers a broad array of housing, maintenance support services, which include a licensed skilled facility, assisted living and home care, healthcare Services, vehicle services. The task is to convert their current Independent MS Access application, which consists of database, Entry/display screens and reports to web-based application with web pages developed in .NET framework 4.0 and SQL Server as backend database.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements review meetings and partnered with business analysts to clarify any specific scenarios.  • Used ASP.NET MVC 5.0 framework to support the use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself.  • Used JSON to transmit data between Server and Web Application, an alternative to XML Serialization  • Worked with latest .NET Technologies. Implemented C# 4.0 features in building the application, Web Services using SOAP and data manipulation using XML.  • Develop MVC Controllers, View Models and Helper methods linked to backend database.  • Developed Web Portals for agents to connect to home care, healthcare and, vehicle services.  • Implemented Routing, Action Filter techniques for application development.  • Used Entity Framework configuration.  • Deploying application and Crystal reports to the server.  • Worked on data cleansing by creating SSIS packages against the Flat Files.  • Maintenance, enhancements and the production support for the existing Post future application which involved complicated debugging and bug fixing.  • Created Web Portal using WCF which required Instance and concurrency management.  • Designed and developed a security system to enable/disable various GUI controls based upon the user role using Reflection.  • Creating required objects using C# for interacting with Crystal reports.  • Involved in Web Service unit testing using SOAPUI Tool.  • Used JQuery and JavaScript to implement AJAX calls and other type of client-side logic.  • Involved in Design, analysis, Implementation, Testing and support of ETL processes for Stage, ODS and Mart.  • Prepared ETL standards, Naming conventions and wrote ETL flow documentation for Stage, ODS and Mart.  • Developed REST based WCF and WPF web services for Client and Server interactions and Json as messaging format.  • Implemented AJAX for viewing the multiple reports.  • Used LINQ queries when working with object collections.  • Knowledge of Java script libraries.  • Implemented best practices such as exception handling, logging, test-driven development, separation of concerns, dependency injection etc.  • Developed complex T-SQL Packages, Procedures and Functions accordance with Business Requirements for loading data into database tables  • Used ORM, LINQ to SQL, LINQ to Entities, LINQ to XML and LINQ to Objects for retrieving the data efficiently.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using PL/SQL.  • Used Moq framework to test the API controllers.  • Used Nunit framework to test Service methods.  • Wrote conversion scripts using SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures, functions and packages to migrate data from SQL server database to Oracle database.  • Configured Log4Net to handle error messages.  • Created Restful services using ASP.NET Web API for exposing these to mobile device Involved in requirement gathering, analysis and documentation of assigned modules.  • Used GIT and Team Foundation Server (TFS) for Version Controlling.  • Involved in unit testing, integration testing etc.    Environment: ASP.NET 4.5, C#, MVC 5, Razor, AJAX, Soap, IIS, Oracle 11g/12g, XML, Java Script, CSS, HTML, HTTP, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Entity Framework, ORM, SSIS, Crystal Reports, REST, ETL, Web services, Web API, WCF, WPF, JQuery, Moq, NUnit, LINQ, Log4net, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Fiddler, Visual Studio 2015, TFS, TDD, NANT, Unity, Auto Mapper, GIT.    NYS ITS - Albany, NY May2014-Jun 2016  Full Stack .Net Developer    Description:  • The New York State Office of Information Technology Services (ITS) to transform  • IT services to make New York State government work smarter for its citizens and  • enable the state to be accessible for businesses using technology.    Project:  • Development and Support (Policy Holder Applications)  • To manage/support the existing Policy Holder Applications using MVC which is to manage  transactions on NYSIF's public web site.    Responsibilities:  • Working on understanding the Business, requirement gathering, analysis and Design.  • Experience in Writing code and debugging skills with ASP.NET, C#, Web APIs.  • Provided database connectivity using ORM tools like Entity Framework, LINQ.  • Developed controllers and action methods using C#.NET.  • Implemented Nlog for logging errors. Handled ASP.NET features such as Exception Handling, and Custom Error Messages.  • Implemented unit testing module with NUnit to test the application performance and availability.  • Modifying table layouts to render via HTML5/CSS3  • Updating templates to leverage modern rendering technology  • JavaScript/JQuery scripting.  • Upgrading existing applications to use s MVC.  • Interfacing with WCF and Oracle 12C to manage transactions on NYSIF's public web site.  • Enhance the functionality of web forms and ASP.NET MVC applications which are used for Internal and external users.  • Extent functionality of a Claim search system which is ASP.NET MVC application using Jquery and C#.  • Create a batch process to move files from one sever to another server.  • Extend the functionality of oracle database to analyze production issues on a day to day basis.  • Modify queries to improve performance and load time.  • Extensively use TFS as the source control for the different applications.  • Support Several applications that are used by internal and external applications to view Policy information.  • Used HTML, JQuery, JavaScript for front UI, verification and CSS for layout.  • Using TFS for version control and collaboration of team effort.  • Provide inputs in architecting, designing, and implementing a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) for the application development group.  • Created various POCs Proof of concepts to support new development and design.  • Implemented the Data access layer using the Entity Framework DB-First Used Lambda Expressions, Extension Methods on ORM Tool, LINQ to SQL and LINQ to Objects.  • Very good experience in Microsoft SQL Server 2017.  • Implemented Proof of Concepts for Data sending and retrieval from Backend service to Stored Procedure.    Environment: C#, ASP.Net, Entity Framework, MVC, Web API, IIS 7.0, MSSQL 2017, TFS 2017, Visual Studio 2017, JSON, NUNIT, NLOG, Repository Design Pattern, Oracle 12C, ORM, LINQ, XML, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, HTTP, Bootstrap, JQuery, LINQ.    Bechtel - Reston, VA Apr2012-May2014  .Net Developer    Description:  Bechtel is a global leader in engineering, procurement, construction and project management. Worked in multiple payroll system projects for the company. Involved in the development of different pay roll applications like Global payroll system (GPS), Payrun portal access (PPA), Tax gathering system (TGS), Global Bechtel time record (gBetr), Information Management (IM).    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using ASP.NET, ASPX, MVC 4, C#, MVC, Entity Framework, Oracle BLOB.  • Designed UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, HTTP and AJAX.  • Devising and implementing user defined web services for web portals  • Used Grid functionality like Grid filtering, Multiple Sorting, Grid Cell Editing, Grid Row Editing.  • Created required objects using C# for interacting with Crystal reports.  • Implemented Prototype and Revealing Module patterns for JavaScript modules.  • Implement Business Logic using C#, used with Visual Studio 2013, .Net Framework 4.0  • Used MVC 4 Pattern to design the application.  • Runtime production support which involved complicated debugging and bug fixing.  • Implemented Client-Side Validations using Data Annotation Attributes.  • Used C# to write business layer.  • Worked on Product Support Web Portal and Supplier Portal.  • Used ASP.NET security infrastructure for authenticating and authorizing user access as well as performing other security related tasks using C#.NET.  • Created Check Points, Breakpoints, Database Logging and Event Handlers where ever necessary. Created Configuration files with XML documents to support the SSIS packages in different environments.  • Responsible for implementing Error handling for the application using Log4Net.  • Used LINQ for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation interface screens developed using ASP.Net.  • Used JQuery and JavaScript to implement AJAX calls and other type of client-side logic.  • Developed web services using SOAP and Restful WCF, WPF services in C#.NET  • Developed the Classes, Objects, Dataset Classes and Methods depending upon the business requirements.  • Used N-hibernate to create mapping objects to access the database.  • Developed and consumed WCF Services.  • Developing WCF Services, involved in defining Endpoints, Data Contracts, Message Contracts, Bindings, Session Management, and Transaction management in service layer.  • Used JIRA to keep track of bugs and issues.  • Develop T-SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers for accessing data from the SQL Server 2008.  • Involved in coding for NUnit Test cases  • Developed Web API's to be consumed by the application.  • Generated interactive reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS 2008) as per the client's request.  • Involved in creating dynamic views with pivoted data to improve user experience.  • Used MSTest and ReSharper for writing Unit Tests.  • Used Fiddler to analyze request and response of Json data from the controllers to Web API's.  • Interacted with Business users for new enhancements in Existing Software Application.  • Assisted Team Leads in implementing design patterns.  • Involved in Coding and Tuning the queries, stored procedures and functions using PL/SQL.  • Use ADO.NET extensively to connect and make changes to SQL Server database.  • Tested components using Unit Test mock frameworks during development.  • Responsible for writing NAnt scripts for building and deploying the application.  • Used TFS for source code version control.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4, MVC 4, Web API, HTML5, HTTP, ASPX, CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap, web services, Entity Framework, Visual studio 2013, SOAP, ORACLE BLOB, SQL Server 2012, Crystal Reports, Restful, SSIS, SSRS, WCF, Unity, Moq, JQuery, XML, JavaScript, WPF, TFS, NUnit, Owin Middleware, Json, Log4net Agile, Fiddler, JIRA.    Bank of America, Richmond, VA Mar2011-Apr2012  .Net Developer    Description:  The applicant and participant services (certification) functional area is intended to support application processing and certification of WIC participants. WIC certification involves capturing relevant demographic, income, health-related, and reference data on applicants and participants in WIC. Web based application designed to provide a single access point for viewing and maintaining account information formerly drawn from four separate systems.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the gathering of system requirements.  • Prepared specification requirements documents (SRS)  • Designed Business Object Model, which involved using Rational Rose to generate class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Used .NET controls to dynamically render the content on web pages developed using C#.  • Designed and implemented different layers (UI Layer, Business Access Layer and Data Access Layer) and using MVC architecture.  • Extensively implemented Grid View for displaying data, and editable Grid View for data manipulation in the presentation layer using Server Controls.  • Created Several User Controls.  • Designed Objected Oriented classes' structure in Data Access Layer and Business Access Layer.  • Used LINQ with objects for data retrieving and data querying.  • Implemented Data Access Layer using ADO.NET.  • Created several Stored Procedures for this project.  • JavaScript and ASP.NET Validation Controls for client-side validation.  • Worked on Data Transformation Services (DTS) to move data from Access to SQL.  • Worked on ASP.NET State Management Techniques like View State, Sessions, Caching (Output Caching)  • Implemented Authentication and Authorization using Web.Config file. Configured for users Authorization and role-based security.  • Used XML for Data Storage and XSLT to transform the SQL queries returned as XML nodes.  • Involved in Designing and Development of Software using agile development practice.  • Performance testing and Code testing using NUnit.  • Developed some dynamic reporting solutions SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Used SVN for Version Control.    Environment: ASP.NET 3.5, C#, Web Forms, ADO.NET, ASPX, AJAX controls, XML, MVC, NUnit, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, HTTP, Visual Studio 2008/10, SQL Server 2005, WinForms, SSRS, HTTP, XML, SVN, SOA.    PayPal - La Vista, NE Feb2009-Mar2011  .Net Developer / Software Engineer    Description:  The range of these maintenance activities is from small fixes for existing defects to implementation of new business rules in an established product.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the all life-cycle design and development.  • Used Waterfall model.  • Application was designed based on N-Tier Architecture.  • Designed and developed various Web Forms for various modules using ASP.NET, ASPX, C#.NET, HTML, HTTP, CSS, and Front Page etc.  • Developed Financial Budget control Reporting system using C/C++.  • Review enhancing techniques (using C++ programs) for pricing and trend analysis.  • Worked on Role Base Security at the presentation layer involving Authentication and Authorization modules proved by ASP.NET.  • Developed User controls using ASP.NET and C# for reusability.  • Worked extensively on AJAX controls.  • Used SVN for Version Control.  • Used Object oriented features such as inheritance, encapsulation and polymorphism in the implementation.  • Written PL/SQL Queries and developed stored procedures and user-defined functions to support data retrieval.  • Found several areas for improvement, made recommendations, and made changes to improve security across all components and systems.  • Used Web Services for accessing data from the web server.  • Executed Stored Procedures using SQL server 2005.    Environment: ASP.NET, C++, MS Visual Studio 2005/2008, AJAX, ASPX, C#, IIS 6.0, HTML, HTTP, CSS, XML, ADO.NET, T-SQL, SQL Server 2005, XML, XSL, SVN, Web Services, Windows XP. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack .Net Developer Fannie Mae - Herndon, VA July 2018 to Present Description:  Fannie Mae is leading source of financing for Mortgage lenders, Providing access to affordable Mortgage financing in all markets always. Fannie Mae build highly customized applications to solve business challenges through Automation, simplification and technology. Fannie Mae partner with the customers to design, Prototype and develop customized business tools. Fannie Mae imagine and create utility Applications that serve the needs of SFA and Fannie Mae. Fannie Mae experiment with new Technologies and ideas to pave the way for the future.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in JIRA Agile Scrum methodology and delivered accepted functionality in each sprint.  • Developed web pages using ASP. Net, C#, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, Java Script, VB script and IIS. Used ADO & ADO.NET (Datasets, DataAdapter) to connect with TOAD Oracle and SQL Server Database.  • Played a role in feature implementation and enhancement, code refactoring and defect fixing.  • Participated in UI design with Master Pages in MVC 5 and improved layout with HTML5, Bootstrap, and CSS3.  • Provided database connectivity using LINQ, designed stored procedures and views at the back end.  • Existing applications were Deployed to Azure after every enhancement  • Developed and Implemented WCF services layer hosted on Windows Azure.  • Developed PL/SQL triggers and master tables for automatic creation of primary keys.  • Used JSON web token to do user authentication and secure information exchange.  • Designed unit testing module with NUnit to test the application performance and availability  • Involved in code review, build and deployment with GIT, BitBucket and TFS.  • Worked on Web API and REST, JSON based development experience.  • Created an application in WPF that generates Silverlight Class library by taking XML file as an input.  • Worked with HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery for the UI development.  • Developed the front end using MVVM pattern and developed Client-side applications.  • Responsible for developing WCF Service to exchange data between UI and Business Logic.  • Extensively used JavaScript for UI interaction, XML for data transmission via WCF services and data manipulation using ORM Tools like LINQ.  • Wrote C#.NET, ASP.NET and Entity framework mappings, settings to define and implement secure middle-tier components using both connected and disconnected environment strategies.  • Developed Web API Services with HTTP way using standard HTTP verbs like GET, POST, PUT, DELETE etc. for all CRUD operations.  • Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented  • Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Develop Web Services and invoking them by using XML SOAP for creating proxy classes.  • Have used Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to develop web services.  • Assisted in designing and development of relational databases for supporting back-end designs.  • Resolved production support issues efficiently and closed on time on day-to-day bases  • Used JavaScript and Validation Controls for validating the controls.  • Used AJAX calls on our project using AJAX CONTROL TOOLKIT.  • Used Multicast Delegate for accessing different methods.  • Created Tree view for Site navigation in Master Page  • Used C# to write all the middle business layer logic.  • Created XML database of all different frequency levels.  • Working on Deployment to QA with Configuration settings.    Environment: ASP.NET 4.5, C#, MVC 5, Angular JS, AJAX, IIS, Toad Oracle, Oracle BLOB, XML, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, HTTP, Bootstrap, Entity Framework, ORM, Web Services, Azure, SQL Server, PL/SQL, REST, Web API, SOAP, WCF, WPF, JQuery, NUnit, LINQ, Log4net, Fiddler, Visual Studio 2015, JIRA, TFS, GIT, Bit Bucket. Sr. .Net Developer GEICO - Fredericksburg, VA June 2016 to July 2018 Description:  This client offers a broad array of housing, maintenance support services, which include a licensed skilled facility, assisted living and home care, healthcare Services, vehicle services. The task is to convert their current Independent MS Access application, which consists of database, Entry/display screens and reports to web-based application with web pages developed in .NET framework 4.0 and SQL Server as backend database.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements review meetings and partnered with business analysts to clarify any specific scenarios.  • Used ASP.NET MVC 5.0 framework to support the use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself.  • Used JSON to transmit data between Server and Web Application, an alternative to XML Serialization  • Worked with latest .NET Technologies. Implemented C# 4.0 features in building the application, Web Services using SOAP and data manipulation using XML.  • Develop MVC Controllers, View Models and Helper methods linked to backend database.  • Developed Web Portals for agents to connect to home care, healthcare and, vehicle services.  • Implemented Routing, Action Filter techniques for application development.  • Used Entity Framework configuration.  • Deploying application and Crystal reports to the server.  • Worked on data cleansing by creating SSIS packages against the Flat Files.  • Maintenance, enhancements and the production support for the existing Post future application which involved complicated debugging and bug fixing.  • Created Web Portal using WCF which required Instance and concurrency management.  • Designed and developed a security system to enable/disable various GUI controls based upon the user role using Reflection.  • Creating required objects using C# for interacting with Crystal reports.  • Involved in Web Service unit testing using SOAPUI Tool.  • Used JQuery and JavaScript to implement AJAX calls and other type of client-side logic.  • Involved in Design, analysis, Implementation, Testing and support of ETL processes for Stage, ODS and Mart.  • Prepared ETL standards, Naming conventions and wrote ETL flow documentation for Stage, ODS and Mart.  • Developed REST based WCF and WPF web services for Client and Server interactions and Json as messaging format.  • Implemented AJAX for viewing the multiple reports.  • Used LINQ queries when working with object collections.  • Knowledge of Java script libraries.  • Implemented best practices such as exception handling, logging, test-driven development, separation of concerns, dependency injection etc.  • Developed complex T-SQL Packages, Procedures and Functions accordance with Business Requirements for loading data into database tables  • Used ORM, LINQ to SQL, LINQ to Entities, LINQ to XML and LINQ to Objects for retrieving the data efficiently.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using PL/SQL.  • Used Moq framework to test the API controllers.  • Used Nunit framework to test Service methods.  • Wrote conversion scripts using SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures, functions and packages to migrate data from SQL server database to Oracle database.  • Configured Log4Net to handle error messages.  • Created Restful services using ASP.NET Web API for exposing these to mobile device Involved in requirement gathering, analysis and documentation of assigned modules.  • Used GIT and Team Foundation Server (TFS) for Version Controlling.  • Involved in unit testing, integration testing etc.    Environment: ASP.NET 4.5, C#, MVC 5, Razor, AJAX, Soap, IIS, Oracle 11g/12g, XML, Java Script, CSS, HTML, HTTP, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Entity Framework, ORM, SSIS, Crystal Reports, REST, ETL, Web services, Web API, WCF, WPF, JQuery, Moq, NUnit, LINQ, Log4net, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Fiddler, Visual Studio 2015, TFS, TDD, NANT, Unity, Auto Mapper, GIT. Full Stack .Net Developer NYS ITS - Albany, NY May 2014 to June 2016 Description:  • The New York State Office of Information Technology Services (ITS) to transform  • IT services to make New York State government work smarter for its citizens and  • enable the state to be accessible for businesses using technology.    Project:  • Development and Support (Policy Holder Applications)  • To manage/support the existing Policy Holder Applications using MVC which is to manage  transactions on NYSIF's public web site.    Responsibilities:  • Working on understanding the Business, requirement gathering, analysis and Design.  • Experience in Writing code and debugging skills with ASP.NET, C#, Web APIs.  • Provided database connectivity using ORM tools like Entity Framework, LINQ.  • Developed controllers and action methods using C#.NET.  • Implemented Nlog for logging errors. Handled ASP.NET features such as Exception Handling, and Custom Error Messages.  • Implemented unit testing module with NUnit to test the application performance and availability.  • Modifying table layouts to render via HTML5/CSS3  • Updating templates to leverage modern rendering technology  • JavaScript/JQuery scripting.  • Upgrading existing applications to use s MVC.  • Interfacing with WCF and Oracle 12C to manage transactions on NYSIF's public web site.  • Enhance the functionality of web forms and ASP.NET MVC applications which are used for Internal and external users.  • Extent functionality of a Claim search system which is ASP.NET MVC application using Jquery and C#.  • Create a batch process to move files from one sever to another server.  • Extend the functionality of oracle database to analyze production issues on a day to day basis.  • Modify queries to improve performance and load time.  • Extensively use TFS as the source control for the different applications.  • Support Several applications that are used by internal and external applications to view Policy information.  • Used HTML, JQuery, JavaScript for front UI, verification and CSS for layout.  • Using TFS for version control and collaboration of team effort.  • Provide inputs in architecting, designing, and implementing a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) for the application development group.  • Created various POCs Proof of concepts to support new development and design.  • Implemented the Data access layer using the Entity Framework DB-First Used Lambda Expressions, Extension Methods on ORM Tool, LINQ to SQL and LINQ to Objects.  • Very good experience in Microsoft SQL Server 2017.  • Implemented Proof of Concepts for Data sending and retrieval from Backend service to Stored Procedure.    Environment: C#, ASP.Net, Entity Framework, MVC, Web API, IIS 7.0, MSSQL 2017, TFS 2017, Visual Studio 2017, JSON, NUNIT, NLOG, Repository Design Pattern, Oracle 12C, ORM, LINQ, XML, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, HTTP, Bootstrap, JQuery, LINQ. Net Developer Bechtel - Reston, VA April 2012 to May 2014 Description:  Bechtel is a global leader in engineering, procurement, construction and project management. Worked in multiple payroll system projects for the company. Involved in the development of different pay roll applications like Global payroll system (GPS), Payrun portal access (PPA), Tax gathering system (TGS), Global Bechtel time record (gBetr), Information Management (IM).    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using ASP.NET, ASPX, MVC 4, C#, MVC, Entity Framework, Oracle BLOB.  • Designed UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, HTTP and AJAX.  • Devising and implementing user defined web services for web portals  • Used Grid functionality like Grid filtering, Multiple Sorting, Grid Cell Editing, Grid Row Editing.  • Created required objects using C# for interacting with Crystal reports.  • Implemented Prototype and Revealing Module patterns for JavaScript modules.  • Implement Business Logic using C#, used with Visual Studio 2013, .Net Framework 4.0  • Used MVC 4 Pattern to design the application.  • Runtime production support which involved complicated debugging and bug fixing.  • Implemented Client-Side Validations using Data Annotation Attributes.  • Used C# to write business layer.  • Worked on Product Support Web Portal and Supplier Portal.  • Used ASP.NET security infrastructure for authenticating and authorizing user access as well as performing other security related tasks using C#.NET.  • Created Check Points, Breakpoints, Database Logging and Event Handlers where ever necessary. Created Configuration files with XML documents to support the SSIS packages in different environments.  • Responsible for implementing Error handling for the application using Log4Net.  • Used LINQ for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation interface screens developed using ASP.Net.  • Used JQuery and JavaScript to implement AJAX calls and other type of client-side logic.  • Developed web services using SOAP and Restful WCF, WPF services in C#.NET  • Developed the Classes, Objects, Dataset Classes and Methods depending upon the business requirements.  • Used N-hibernate to create mapping objects to access the database.  • Developed and consumed WCF Services.  • Developing WCF Services, involved in defining Endpoints, Data Contracts, Message Contracts, Bindings, Session Management, and Transaction management in service layer.  • Used JIRA to keep track of bugs and issues.  • Develop T-SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers for accessing data from the SQL Server 2008.  • Involved in coding for NUnit Test cases  • Developed Web API's to be consumed by the application.  • Generated interactive reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS 2008) as per the client's request.  • Involved in creating dynamic views with pivoted data to improve user experience.  • Used MSTest and ReSharper for writing Unit Tests.  • Used Fiddler to analyze request and response of Json data from the controllers to Web API's.  • Interacted with Business users for new enhancements in Existing Software Application.  • Assisted Team Leads in implementing design patterns.  • Involved in Coding and Tuning the queries, stored procedures and functions using PL/SQL.  • Use ADO.NET extensively to connect and make changes to SQL Server database.  • Tested components using Unit Test mock frameworks during development.  • Responsible for writing NAnt scripts for building and deploying the application.  • Used TFS for source code version control.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4, MVC 4, Web API, HTML5, HTTP, ASPX, CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap, web services, Entity Framework, Visual studio 2013, SOAP, ORACLE BLOB, SQL Server 2012, Crystal Reports, Restful, SSIS, SSRS, WCF, Unity, Moq, JQuery, XML, JavaScript, WPF, TFS, NUnit, Owin Middleware, Json, Log4net Agile, Fiddler, JIRA. Net Developer Bank of America - Richmond, VA March 2011 to April 2012 Description:  The applicant and participant services (certification) functional area is intended to support application processing and certification of WIC participants. WIC certification involves capturing relevant demographic, income, health-related, and reference data on applicants and participants in WIC. Web based application designed to provide a single access point for viewing and maintaining account information formerly drawn from four separate systems.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the gathering of system requirements.  • Prepared specification requirements documents (SRS)  • Designed Business Object Model, which involved using Rational Rose to generate class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Used .NET controls to dynamically render the content on web pages developed using C#.  • Designed and implemented different layers (UI Layer, Business Access Layer and Data Access Layer) and using MVC architecture.  • Extensively implemented Grid View for displaying data, and editable Grid View for data manipulation in the presentation layer using Server Controls.  • Created Several User Controls.  • Designed Objected Oriented classes' structure in Data Access Layer and Business Access Layer.  • Used LINQ with objects for data retrieving and data querying.  • Implemented Data Access Layer using ADO.NET.  • Created several Stored Procedures for this project.  • JavaScript and ASP.NET Validation Controls for client-side validation.  • Worked on Data Transformation Services (DTS) to move data from Access to SQL.  • Worked on ASP.NET State Management Techniques like View State, Sessions, Caching (Output Caching)  • Implemented Authentication and Authorization using Web.Config file. Configured for users Authorization and role-based security.  • Used XML for Data Storage and XSLT to transform the SQL queries returned as XML nodes.  • Involved in Designing and Development of Software using agile development practice.  • Performance testing and Code testing using NUnit.  • Developed some dynamic reporting solutions SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Used SVN for Version Control.    Environment: ASP.NET 3.5, C#, Web Forms, ADO.NET, ASPX, AJAX controls, XML, MVC, NUnit, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, HTTP, Visual Studio 2008/10, SQL Server 2005, WinForms, SSRS, HTTP, XML, SVN, SOA. Net Developer / Software Engineer PayPal - La Vista, NE February 2009 to March 2011 Description:  The range of these maintenance activities is from small fixes for existing defects to implementation of new business rules in an established product.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the all life-cycle design and development.  • Used Waterfall model.  • Application was designed based on N-Tier Architecture.  • Designed and developed various Web Forms for various modules using ASP.NET, ASPX, C#.NET, HTML, HTTP, CSS, and Front Page etc.  • Developed Financial Budget control Reporting system using C/C++.  • Review enhancing techniques (using C++ programs) for pricing and trend analysis.  • Worked on Role Base Security at the presentation layer involving Authentication and Authorization modules proved by ASP.NET.  • Developed User controls using ASP.NET and C# for reusability.  • Worked extensively on AJAX controls.  • Used SVN for Version Control.  • Used Object oriented features such as inheritance, encapsulation and polymorphism in the implementation.  • Written PL/SQL Queries and developed stored procedures and user-defined functions to support data retrieval.  • Found several areas for improvement, made recommendations, and made changes to improve security across all components and systems.  • Used Web Services for accessing data from the web server.  • Executed Stored Procedures using SQL server 2005.    Environment: ASP.NET, C++, MS Visual Studio 2005/2008, AJAX, ASPX, C#, IIS 6.0, HTML, HTTP, CSS, XML, ADO.NET, T-SQL, SQL Server 2005, XML, XSL, SVN, Web Services, Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills Asp. (10+ years), Asp.net (10+ years), C# (10+ years), Css (10+ years), Html (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: C#, C, C++, JavaScript, Jquery, T-SQL, PL/SQL.  Technologies: ASP.NET 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, MVC 3/4/5/6, Web API 1.0/2.0, Entity Framework 6/6.1, ORM, NHibernate, HTML 5, ETL, HTTP, SSIS, SSRS, WCF, Azure, WPF, CSS 3, AJAX, XML, XSLT, XPATH, JQuery.  Build Tools: NANT, MS Build, Maven, Jenkins.  Web Service Protocols: UDDI, SOAP, WSDL and UDDI.  Version Control Tools: CVS, Tortoise SVN, TFS, GIT and BitBucket.  Operating Systems: Windows 10/7/XP, DOS and Linux  Database: Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c, TOAD Oracle 12, SQL Server 2005/2008 R2/12/14/17.