Front End Developer Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Paysign Las Vegas, NV Work Experience Front End Developer Paysign - Henderson, NV May 2018 to Present Node.js  Paysign (PAYS) is a publicly listed financial technology company that  offers prepaid card solution to several different enterprise clients. As Building/Consuming RESTful  Front End Developer, I work closely with the Software Architect, APIs  Software Engineer, and Chief Technology Officer to plan, design, Vanilla JS / Typescript  implement, and finally maintain several different value added and Agile  revenue earning systems. All single page applications, we used Angular  for most solutions but used Ionic 4 for the mobile app. In the scope of Git  work, I also had the opportunity to help design RESTful servers for Responsive Web Development  admin style interfaces using Node.js and Nest.js that managed the consumer facing products. This leveraged much of my skills in ES6+  Typescript and the code paradigms present in Angular. In addition, I am Single Page Applications  responsible for setting up automated tests for products using Karma and Jasmine. Production Art Capable The Siegel Group - Las Vegas, NV June 2017 to May 2018 LANGUAGES    The Siegel Group is a real estate holding and budget suites company that  Spoken: English, Bulgarian  specializes in the "Siegel Suites" brand of low cost housing. As Web  Producer, I manage all forward facing and internal web applications. I  Code: HTML, CSS, Javascript, overhauled dated websites using responsive web design techniques and  Typescript, PHP, SQL, Python  implemented customized WordPress sites to reduce maintenance, improve security, and ensure up to date data for many properties across  state lines. I also maintain existing legacy code as necessary. I am    consulted for user experience for digital marketing and work together References    with stakeholders and designers to deliver a product as it relates to web  Will be given upon request  that compels the demographic to easily follow up with sales. I also run  AdWords PPC campaigns, report web analytics, and research new tools and technologies as it relates to company needs. Designer/ Developer FarHeap Solutions Inc - Las Vegas, NV September 2016 to June 2017 FarHeap Solutions is a tech holding company for several brands relating  to print services and technology, such as Overnight Prints, RentAPress, and OpenSoft. I was brought on as a Wordpress Developer to create,  manage, and advise in future deployment of Wordpress installations. I  worked with brand managers and stakeholders to develop solutions to design, usability, and functionality problems using PHP, JQuery, data  management, and API integration. I had significant experience  designing and implementing themes and plugins in addition to deploying and customizing themes. Associate Software Insuremonkey Inc - Henderson, NV June 2014 to June 2016 Insuremonkey is a health services tech startup that helps people obtain  health insurance. Originally an internship, my duties on major inhouse  and client-oriented projects included HTML, CSS, and Javascript coding, as well as front end design and content editing. This was also  accompanied by Python development for the web app that dealt with checkout processes and data with HIPAA regulations. Regular code  releases were also done within a team structure. Education Computer Science University of Nevada - Las Vegas, NV August 2014 to January 2017 Web Design and Development Southwest Career and Technical Academy August 2010 to June 2014