Stock Option Trader Stock Option Trader Stock Option Trader - Self Employed Batavia, IL Results-oriented Software Developer with 10+ years in analysis, design, development, testing and  implementation of relational data-based applications and UI. Well versed in Unix, C, SQL as well as other  languages and technologies. Experienced in working in a Global Work Environment. Supportive and  enthusiastic team player, comfortable in leadership and team member roles. Work Experience Stock Option Trader Self Employed 2013 to Present Retired from Alcatel-Lucent in 2013 to trade Stock Options full-time. Specialized in SPX and VIX options.  Lifelong interest in markets, significant trading experience and training in volatility and option strategies.  • Extensive trading experience in Stock Options, greater than 5000 transactions per year, transaction value greater than $10 million requiring Large Trader registration. Network Data Design Engineer Alcatel-Lucent - Naperville, IL 2009 to 2013 Performed UMTS-UTRAN Network Data Design and pre-provisioning functionality to support  configuration of wireless equipment in major customer's Wireless Network. This network included more  than 25 million wireless customers in the US. High quality was critical in providing this service. There  was 0 downtime in this pre-provisioning. Group Revenues over $60 million annually.  • Team project provided 3G UMTS network design and integration solutions to AT&T 3G  Voice and Data Network of $60 million revenue annually. Software Developer MTS - Mobility Solutions Alcatel-Lucent - Naperville, IL 2007 to 2009 Team leader of the MIB subsystem, responsible for the design and development of MIB database data  for the EVDO product line. Responsibilities included: database design schema, DataBlitz Level 2/3  database integrity checks, VDL modifications for table/attribute adds/deletes. Provided pre-provisioning and lab scripts for database needs. Unix/C/C++/MIB and SQL/iSQL used for this database development.  Provided Level 1/2 database checks for the OMC-RAN GUI using XML/Unix/C/C++.  • Created and executed a quality improvement process which reduced low level design time by  50% and costs by $100,000 annually based on 2 releases of 10 Designs per year. Software Developer MTS - Lucent SIP Stack Alcatel-Lucent - Naperville, IL 2006 to 2006 Software Developer for the SIP CSS team. Designed and developed error/information logging interface and the SIP Stack Infrastructure for a statistics collection feature. Work performed in Unix/C and C++. Software Developer MTS - Mobility Solutions Alcatel-Lucent - Naperville, IL 2000 to 2006 Functional Area Owner of RDBU (Ring Database Update) Subsystem. Designed, developed and maintained software fast access to applications on nodes in the Flexent Architecture utilizing a  proprietary in core database. Coding done primarily in Unix/C.  • Led a team of 4 developers providing internal database synchronization for Wireless group  interfacing with multiple nodes in Flexent Architecture serving millions of customers. Software Developer MTS - Lucent Public Safety Alcatel-Lucent - Naperville, IL 1990 to 2000 Team Leader/Lead Developer of the E911 Database Product (DBMS). Designed, developed and maintained software using Unix/C, Informix 4GL, ESQL/C and SQL. The DBMS provided the database  used to respond to 911 calls. Interfaced with the 5ESS Switch to synchronize the ESN database on an AP  which mapped to emergency telephone numbers used at the PSAP. Provided updates, audits and maintenance of the database on the AP. Developed clerical and admin interfaces including screen design and underlying code for greater than 50 screens.  • Original member of ESA Lucent Public Safety Systems E911 team and as part of new  ventures group, business sold to SCC for $29.1 million. Software Developer MTS - Adjunct Processor Group AT&T - Naperville, IL 1983 to 1990 Team Leader/Lead Developer (Unix/C/SQL/ESQL-C) of the Facilities Management System (FMS) Feature  for the Advanced Communications Package (ACP) and Customer Network Option (CNO-AP) products, which provided network management and control capabilities for the voice, voice band data and  switched digital service utilizing a real time proprietary database. Control was provided by transmitting  requests from an AP over an API link through the use of Recent Change resources on a 5ESS Switch.  • Team member of group generating new revenue of $4 million by replacing 1A Analog Network  Management System with a 12 5ESS Digital Network. Individual contribution ~$150,000 Education B.A. in Computer Science in Computer Science Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL Skills Shell scripting, Solaris, Unix, Unix shell, Ux, Hp-ux, Informix, SQL, C++, Html, Scripting, Xml, SDLC, Rdbms, Excel, Microsoft office, Powerpoint, Word, MacOS, C Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/robertmohorek Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES/KEY SKILLS  • Experienced in C, C++ programming languages and UNIX shell scripting.  • Solid development experience in SQL, ESQL/C, iSQL, Informix 4gl and RDBMS based applications.  • Working knowledge of UNIX, Solaris, HP-UX, Windows and MacOS Operating Systems.  • Development experience in XML and HTML.  • Familiarity with Microsoft Office Tools (Word, Excel and Powerpoint).  • Experienced in all phases of the SDLC.  • Strong communication and interpersonal skills as team leader and team member.  • Demonstrated ability to meet deadlines while multi-tasking.  • Experienced in team oriented global workforce environment.