Lead Software Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Lead Software Engineer Henderson, NV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Software Engineer Scientific Games - Las Vegas, NV July 2007 to Present • Perform requirement analysis, software design and coding on multiple projects.  • Develop software for the iVIEW, an embedded device which is retrofitted in a slot machine or EGM (Electronic Gaming Machine) for nearly any manufacturer.  • iVIEW runs Windows XPe, CE 5 and Windows Embedded.  • Communication with the EGM is SAS (Slot Accounting System) (serial protocol).  • Communication with server(s) is performed using multiple protocols:  REST, G2S (XML over TCP/IP), serialized objects over HTTP/HTTPS, serialized objects via MSMQ and SignalR.  The iVIEW runs multiple processes written in C# 3.5 - 4.5, C++ and JavaScript.  Developed various server based applications, implemented as Windows Services, Web Services, Web Applications, WPF desktop applications. Canadian - Expires Present Proficient in Object Oriented Design.  Design Patterns.  Military - USAF (United States Air Force 86'-90') Honorable Discharge  Current Nevada Gaming License (Expires 7/2022)  Current GPEB Gaming License (Canadian - Expires 10/2019)  Electronics, IoT and Robotics hobby experience. Lead Developer MediServe Information Systems - Tempe, AZ August 1993 to June 2007 • Manage the design and development of the company's new product offerings. Responsible for the design and coding of multiple applications for commercial release.  • Developed client/server applications in C#, C++, Delphi, with MS SQL Server.  Developed mobile version of application written in C#/ASP.NET.  • Developed HL7, TCP/IP interface for data exchange with hospital host systems.  Applications used in major hospitals and medical facilities nationwide.  • Developed menu-driven, point-of-care documentation (charting) system, with automated charge capture.  • Experienced with Patient Demographics, Order Entry, Billing, Patient Documentation, Outcome Education M.S. in Information Management W.P. Carey School of Business 2007 B.S. in Management Arizona State University 1999 Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E-4 Sgt.