Lead Android Mobile Developer Lead Android Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Android Mobile Developer - ATG(Automotive Training Group) Salt Lake City, UT ? Senior Android developer with extensive software development and mobile application development experience in various platform-based industries with expertise in developing applications using Android SDK, Eclipse,Android Studio, Visual Studio and Xamarin.Android technologies.  ? Good experience in all phases of the software development life cycle (SDLC). Responsible of analysis, design, development, Testing, implementation and maintenance of business applications in client/server technology.  ? Expertise on Mobile Application Development Using Xamarin.Android Approach.  ? Involved in every phase of Agile and Waterfall Methodologies of a SDLC ( Software Development Life Cycle) with the iterative and Evolutionary standards.  ? Highly skilled in requirement gathering & Analysis, preparing Functional & Design specifications and maintaining company standard documentation.  ? Good experience in design using Object Oriented Programming Principles like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Encapsulation & Data Abstraction.  ? Implemented the latest Material Design guidelines, animations and UX optimization, Fragments, Layouts, Animations, Compound Views, Custom Views, ListView and RecyclerView.  ? Good Understanding and Experience with Build and Deployment Processes for iOS and Android.  ? Implemented the RESTful data consumption using Retrofit with an OkHttp client and GSON.  ? Worked on deploying the application into Google Play store and Company Portals (In- House).  ? Experience with Push Notifications, Google Maps, Navigation, GPS, and social media APIs.  ? Proficient with multiple IDEs tailored for Android Development (Android Studio, Eclipse and Visual Studio).  ? Work with management to talk through design plans, distribution of work, and time schedules, especially when new technologies arrive that the company wants to implement. Work Experience Lead Android Mobile Developer ATG(Automotive Training Group) - Springfield, MO February 2017 to Present App URL: Currently in development    Project Description: The application was designed to allow users enroll to long distance education in 3rd world countries, it allowed to the users see courses modules, take courses, watch videos, take quizzes and see documents. The app also has course creation modules, document upload and quizzes creation for publishers    Responsibilities:  ? Developed Android mobile application using Android Studio implementing data binding, Room library, and Constraint layout, Acra for crash reports and AndroidX library for compatibility.  ? Developed Screens for Android Devices using android standard XML design and also using Constraint Layout  ? Lead and mentor team of 2 members for android application development.  ? Develop Android Data Bindings for user interfaces (please elaborate this bullet by including the tools used for the task)  ? Designed application architecture to be compatible with device agnostic.  ? Designed application architecture.  ? Run several meetings with UI teams to help them better understand Material Design approach, how to implement and the possible outcomes for current layouts and User Interface.  ? Implemented push notifications and connected with Firebase console  ? Designed application architecture to be compatible with new devices in future with minimum code changes to UI/UX.  ? Integrating Rest services to call the web services using Retrofit library (API calling).  ? Integrating SQLite for storing the data in local using Room persistence library.  ? Continuous integration to road map software and project life cycle with several updated tools like Firebase, push notifications.  ? Integrate with Agile team deliverables for all the processes of the product life cycle  ? Fix issues with the current Implementation and perform testing operations over physical devices and using Genymotion emulator.  ? Support QA Team to perform testing and provided support for throughout entire mobile development project.  ? Acted as point of contact for urgent and critical milestones in the project life cycle and software development lifecycle, including explanatory steps for non- developer persons  Technologies: Java, Android,Android Studio, Android Data Bindings, GIT, Room persistence library, AndroidX library, Retrofit. Senior Android/Xamarin Mobile Developer FXWell (https://www.fxwell.com/) - Baltimore, MD February 2015 to February 2017 Project Description: FXWell app is a corporate application which allows users track their health, wellness and performance. Also is allowed to users compete with challenges and connect devices like Under armour, Fitbit and others to the app to keep tracking their fitness progress. in the latest version the app allowed to the users answer a survey so they can get a personalized training program.    Responsibilities:  ? Design and developed mobile application using Android SDK, Xamarin Studio and Genymotion for testing  ? Performed requirements gathering, transforming them into epics, user stories, development tasks and actively involved in the application architecture and design.  ? Guided project management in planning and project structure  ? Designed and developed mobile application using Interface builder Xamarin.Android C# and XML.  ? Designed application architecture to be compatible with common couch base and it will work for both iOS and Android.  ? Design and develop Screens for Android Devices using XML.  ? Utilizing MVC design patterns for implementing the architecture of the application.  ? Implementing Web API Services for web service calls backend System and database.  ? Working on for Dynamic logic for reusable screens and application.  ? Implementing Android new features using C# Xamarin.Android.  ? Supervise automated testing and worked closely with QA Team to perform testing issues.  Technologies: Java, Android, C#, Xamarin.Android, Visual Studio, GIT Android Developer ACT Mobile Solutions, Merida - MX April 2013 to February 2015 Project Description: Fanto, Fantasy Football app,is an app designed to allow users betting in football tournaments and earn money. The user was able to choose players, scores for specific tournaments.  App URL: Due Google Play restrictions Fanto app is only available from its home page    Responsibilities:  ? Design and Developed Android mobile application using Eclipse and Android SDK.  ? Managed continuous integration using GIT and remote repositories on BitBucket.  ? Used Flatbuffers and GSON to serialize information passed along a network, two different serialization implementations to allow for adaptability in responding to changing requirements.  ? Used Android Asynctask to implement network communication structure that features two way communications between the client and server.  ? Use of SQLite database schema to persistent data storage for every schedule  ? Participated on the RESTful API definitions for the app.  ? Test REST web services using postman.  ? Utilized multithreading and asynchronous tasks to manage communication between server and application.  ? Supported team member through paired programming and use of whiteboard concept diagrams.  ? Support web service development; also support iOS testing and development  ? Provided successful demos of the application's features to higher management on many occasions.  Technologies: Android, Eclipse, Android SDK, SQLite, GIT, RESTful API. Android Mobile Developer Bi-Wize Auto and Home May 2011 to April 2013 Project Description: Bi-Wize auto and home was an application for customers which allow them share discounts with friends through SMS, the application allowed to the customer share special discounts only when the client.    Responsibilities:  ? Design and develop android application using and Eclipse, Android Sdk and Genymotion.  ? Responsible for the design, build, deployment, debug & maintenance of Android applications for Google play  ? Ensured all applications were developed with the SDLC Software Development life cycle.  ? Responsible for the implementation of the user interfaces based on the mockups provided by the designer.  ? Tested applications on multiple devices to ensure compatibility standards  ? Programmed with clean, modular, robust code using Java and XML with Android SDK platform.  ? Fixed bugs with code, design patterns and miscellaneous occurrences during projects.  ? Perform manual testing on Android using Genymotion and iOS using the iOS emulator and physical devices, also tested REST web services responses using postman.  ? Support IOS testing and development by implementing some views in for theiOS version  Technologies: Android, Eclipse,Android SDK, XML. Technical Support/ Software Engineer State of Quintana Roo September 2009 to May 2011 Project Description: The communitarian development department is part of the Family Development Office in Quintana Roo. The development office is in charge of school programs.    Responsibilities:  ? Provided department support to generate statistics and capture the information obtained from communities.  ? Built a new database for the school year and updated the information accordingly to student registration.  ? Sent the information to the Family Development System periodically  ? Generated student registration statistics for community programs.  ? Generated student lists according to school, grade and location.  ? Created forms for data capture.  ? Assisted department users create documents and spreadsheets.  Technologies: PHP, MySQL, MS Access, Android System Developer University of Quintana Roo June 2007 to September 2009 Project Description: Updated the University's finance system (SIPREFI).    Responsibilities:  ? Added and updated modules on the system.  ? Wrote modules in Java and generated SQL queries according to specifications using the framework provided by University.  ? Write Java classes for the backend.  ? Developed database code for transactions.  ? Debugged classes using NetBeans Debugger.  Technologies: Java, Servlets, Oracle, PL/SQL. Skills Android, Android sdk, Model view controller, Mvc, Xcode, Mvvm, Viewmodel, .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Android studio, C#, Git, Json, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Oop, Software development, Svn, Xamarin Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Java, C# .Net, Kotlin  Mobile Development Android SDK, Android Studio, Xamarin.Android  Platforms Android, Xamarin  Software Development  Asynchronous Programming, Event Driven Programming, OOP - Object Oriented Programming,MVVM - Model View ViewModel, MVC - Model View Controller, RWD - SDLC -- Agile, Waterfall, Prototype    IDE Tools NetBeans, Eclipse IDE, Microsoft Visual Studio, MySQL Workbench, Android Studio, XCode  Message Formats JSON, BSON, XML.  Development Tools Visual Studio, JIRA, Eclipse, Android Studio, Xcode, VirtualBox, Git, SVN.