Technical Lead Technical Lead Senior Java/J2ee developer (JDK 1.7 & 1.8, Spring MVC, Spring Web Services, AngularJS, Postgressql DB, PL/SQL) MO • 10 YEARS of professional experience in IT Industry with expertise in designing, developing, implementing and maintaining enterprise level software applications.  • Experience in designing, developing multi-tier application using J2EE technologies, application Build mechanism i.e. Ant, Maven and various supporting technologies.  • Extensive knowledge of MVC architecture, Struts, Spring, Hibernate & JPA framework  • Experience in developing SOAP & REST Web Services using Apache Axis, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, and CXF, Jersey tools or API.  • Experience with installing and configuring application servers such BEA/Oracle Web Logic 8.0, 10.0, 10.3, JBoss, WebSphere and Apache Tomcat.  • Good knowledge of Object Oriented Methodology, DevOps, DevSecOps & CI/CD.  • Having Excellent Expertise in Telecom Domain, Content Management System & Banking Domain.  • Good Exposure on Web Based Application, Standalone application & Web services (SOAP & REST).  • Extensive hands-on experience in different aspects of enterprise software development including integration, web services (SOAP, REST).  • Strong Experience in Oracle database and Backend Programming.  • Excellent understanding of SDLC, Waterfall & Agile/Scrum methodology for existing and ongoing projects.  • Strengths in multitasking, problem solving and timely resolution of issues in meeting deadlines and budgets, enthusiasm to learn new technologies.  • Expertise on Development, Enhancement, Troubleshooting & Support of applications.  • Working Experience with IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, STS.  • Self-starter with excellent communication and Interpersonal skills. Ability to work on a team environment or independently, handle multiple tasks concurrently and efficiently.  • Strengths in multitasking, problem solving and timely resolution of issues in meeting deadlines and budgets, enthusiasm to learn new technologies.  • Regular Client appreciation received for the development related tasks.  • Result oriented, motivated and an organized team player with a capability of working for a common goal.  • Composed, professional and a well-balanced individual with strong understanding of business relationships and business requirements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Lead AT & T July 2018 to Present Description: The ESP (Ethernet Service Provider) Catalog system is an Ethernet Data Warehouse designed to support the growing demand for Ethernet access across the world. It provides a reliable and expandable platform to support the growing volumes of data. The database supports business critical functions of Ethernet qualification and ordering by providing its Ethernet footprint and availability to downstream systems.  Responsibilities:  • Gathering the requirements from the functional team and structured them in a simple way for achieving the business objectives.  • Followed AGILE Methodology to promote iterations, collaboration, and process adaptability and participated in SCRUM Meetings throughout the life cycle of project.  • Extensively involved in developing core persistence classes using Hibernate framework, writing HQL queries, JPA Annotations creating hibernate mapping (.hbm) files.  • Design & Developed Batch process to load & download huge catalog data set.  • Developed Reporting framework to schedule and compare huge data sets.  • Developed system to process more than 1 million records.  • Design & Developed Web based application with rich UI components.  • Design Rest services and Angular UI MVC architecture.  • Develop SOAP services and clients modules using JAX-WS.  • Implemented CI/CD DevOps Configuration.  • Wrote PL/SQL queries for performing Database interactions.  • Code Review as per Java coding standards.  • Performance optimization for the PL/SQL queries.  Environment:  Technology: JDK 1.7 & 1.8, Spring MVC, Spring Web Services, AngularJS, Postgressql DB, PL/SQL.  Server: JBoss, Weblogic application Server, Tomcat Server.  IDE & Framework: Eclipse, STS, Web-Service.  Tools: SVN, Jacob Formatter, Junit, Toad for Oracle, Maven, Logback.  Database: Oracle 11g, Postgressql DB. AT&T July 2013 to Present Technical Lead Tower Maintenance MED & MDAT June 2017 to June 2018 Description: The Application Design to manage Tower location, Generator, Battery, Tank HVAC Unit and PM Information. MED UI Application for intranet AT&T Users to manage Tower Related data. MDAT UI Application for internet AT&T Vendors to manage Tower tickets and work flow.  Responsibilities:  • Gathering the requirements from the functional team and structured them in a simple way for achieving the business objectives.  • Followed Agile Scrum development methodology.  • Designed the application under JEE architecture, designed and developed dynamic and browser compatible User Interfaces using JSPs, JSTL, HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Developed Batch process to Nightly or weekly Load Data from various systems.  • Design and Developed MED & MDAT UI system to manage AT&T Tower Maintenance.  • Implemented Security mechanism to manage different vendor & users.  • Implemented CI/CD DevOps Configuration.  • PL/SQL queries for performing Database interactions.  Environment:  Technology: JDK 1.8, spring, Hibernate, JSP & Servlets.  Server: Weblogic application Server, Tomcat Server.  IDE & Framework: Eclipse and IntelliJ, Struts Framework.  Tools: SVN, Jacob Formatter, Junit, Toad for Oracle, Maven, Jenkin, Sonar, SWM, Logback.  Database: Oracle 10g. Technical Lead 2016 to May 2017 Description: RBCS is Rule based Engine to allocate vendor on the basis of vendor selection rules criteria.  Responsibilities:  • Requirements generation, documentation and Low-level design development, implementation and documentation  • Followed Agile Scrum development methodology.  • Design and Developed UI system to manage vendor selection Rules.  • Design and Developed SOAP services to allocate vendor based on Rules defined.  • Develop spring ehcache mechanism.  • Design rest services and angular UI MVC architecture.  • Implemented CI/CD DevOps Configuration.  • Developed Spring Async processing thread to post manipulation and log transaction.  Environment:  Technology: JDK 1.7, spring, Hibernate, JPA, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, SOAP based & Rest Web-Service, AngularJS, JUnit/Mockito, Jenkins, Sonar.  Server: Weblogic application Server, Tomcat Server.  IDE & Framework: Eclipse, STS, Web-Service.  Tools: SVN, Jacob Formatter, Junit, Toad for Oracle, Jenkin, Sonar, SWM, Maven, SOA CSI.  Database: Oracle 10g. Technical Lead March 2015 to June 2016 Description: The application PED-Compliance design to manage PACE Job Details, Task Actualization, Tickets and Structure creation for AT&T compliance users.  Responsibilities:-  • Client interaction on function requirement and provided solution approach.  • Followed Agile Scrum development methodology.  • Design and Developed UI Application interface.  • Design application services contract docs.  • Developed SOAP services for PACE Job Details and asynchronous soap Flow for Task actualization.  • Develop mechanism to monitor application transaction.  • Handling Complete Configuration issues for the Oracle Weblogic application server.  Environment:  Technology: JDK 1.7, spring, Hibernate, JPA, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, SOAP based & Rest Web-Service, JUnit/Mockito, Jenkins, Sonar.  Server: Web logic, Tomcat & JBoss Server  IDE & Framework: Eclipse, STS, Web-Service.  Tools: SVN, Jacob Formatter, Junit, Toad for Oracle, Maven, SOA CSI, Logback.  Database: Oracle 11g. Sr. Software Engineer July 2013 to February 2015 Description: PED-eScore is the primary application to manage small-cell implementation. Application design to manage life cycle of Small cell implementation including location details, transportation request, tower details, location & equipment clli details, job-number actualization Design PED-Federated and PED-WEB to manage real time small cell data.  Responsibilities:-  • Client interaction on function requirement and provided solution approach.  • Followed Agile Scrum development methodology.  • Developed batch process to daily load (create & update) small cell Data using Shell scripts, Java controller and SOAP Interfaces.  • Developed multiple SOAP based Services to integrate location, transportation, tower, equipment clli and location clli details.  • Design DB to manage huge Data set.  • Design and Developed UI interface to manage Small cell implementation work flow.  • Developed synchronous and asynchronous SOAP based flow in-between multiple user group applications.  • Handling Complete Configuration issues for the Oracle Weblogic application server.  Environment:  Technology: JDK 1.7, spring, Hibernate, JPA, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, SOAP based & Rest Web-Service, JUnit/Mockito, Jenkins, Sonar.  Server: Web logic, Tomcat & JBoss Server  IDE & Framework: Eclipse, STS, Web-Service.  Tools: SVN, Jacob Formatter, Junit, Toad for Oracle, Maven, SOA CSI, Log4J.  Database: Oracle 11g. Software Engineer Orange Business Service/France Telecom October 2012 to May 2013 Description: Central Circuit Repository is core application to manage Circuit of entire France Telecom. The application design to manage access and backbone circuit, carrier, router and customer related information. It's a Data centric application to manage huge data.  Responsibilities:-  • Worked on LDAP server and Guardian authentication platform.  • Handling Complete Configuration issues for the Oracle Weblogic application server.  • Writing Java code, Compilation shell script and JSP's as per SRS.  • Developed UI Application using Struts MVC.  • Wrote PL/SQL queries for performing Database interactions.  • Resolving the bugs with minimal man hours.  • Performed Code reviews and code fixes.  Environment:  Technology: JDK 1.6, J2EE, Struts, EJB.  Server: Weblogic application Server, Tomcat Server.  IDE & Framework: Eclipse and IntelliJ, Struts Framework.  Tools: Ant Build, Toad for Oracle, clear case source code management, Log4J.  Database: Oracle 10g. Orange Business Service/France Telecom March 2011 to May 2013 Software Engineer Orange Business Service/France Telecom April 2011 to September 2012 Description: CMT is core application to manage Carrier of entire France Telecom. The application design to manage Carrier Detail, Carrier Services, Contract Detail, Service availability and Service Level agreement  Responsibilities:-  • Handling Complete Configuration issues for the Weblogic application server.  • Writing Java code, Compilation shell script and JSP's.  • Implement high level JQuery and Ajax to handle Carrier console Functionalities.  • Developed user friendly interface to view all Carrier summary data on mouse navigation.  • Wrote PL/SQL queries for performing Database interactions.  • Resolving the bugs with minimal man hours.  • Performed Code reviews and code fixes.  • Handled the client interaction for technical specification on a bi-weekly basis  Environment:  Technology: JDK 1.6, J2EE, Struts, EJB, JQuery, AJAX.  Server: Weblogic application Server, Tomcat Server.  IDE & Framework: Eclipse and IntelliJ, Struts Framework.  Tools: Ant Build, Toad for Oracle, clear case source code management, Log4J.  Database: Oracle 10g. Software Engineer APAC Customer Services March 2010 to March 2011 Description: CTI is web-based tool to operate Calls & customer Agents Activities. It provides interfaces to manage Calls & Agents activities using CISCO & AWAYA Dialer API tracking.  Responsibilities:  • Understanding the Software Requirement Specification (SRS).  • Understanding of CISCO & AWAYA Dialer API.  • Creating the Technical Design Document with ER Diagrams.  • Developed event management system listener for Ct- server API i.e. Avaya, Cisco.  • Worked on Avaya and Cisco API for Dialer events and monitor agents activities.  • Handling Complete Configuration issues for the BEA Weblogic Portal application  • Writing Java Page Flow Controllers, Java Database Controls, Schema files and JSP's as per SRS  • Implement Ajax to control Portlet Functionalities.  • Developed web logic P13 cache mechanism.  • Wrote PL/SQL queries for performing Database interactions.  • Code Review as per BEA coding standards. Performance optimization for the PL/SQL queries.  • Resolving the bugs with minimal man hours.  • Performed Code reviews and code fixes.  • Handled the client interaction for technical specification on a bi-weekly basis  Environment:  Technology: JDK 1.5, Oracle Weblogic Portal, Portlets, Java Page Flow.  Server: Weblogic Server  IDE & Framework: Oracle Weblogic Workshop 10.1, Portal/Portlets.  Tools: Check Style, Jacob Formatter, Toad for Oracle, Microsoft Visio, Log4J.  Database: Oracle 10g. APAC Customer Services August 2009 to March 2011 Software Developer APAC Customer Services August 2009 to February 2010 Description: CMS is Web based web logic portal application to process content with various roles i.e. author, editor & publisher, viewer or end user. Design 2 portal applications, first one for internal users to manage content via author, editor & publisher phases and second one for external end user to read news and content as per subscription.  Responsibilities:  • Understanding the Software Requirement Specification (SRS).  • Creating the Technical Design Document with ER Diagrams.  • Developed role based mechanism to access application with different user.  • Worked on FCKEditor to manage content on Portal.  • Integrated FCKEditor with WebLogic JPF Portlets.  • Handling Oracle 10 g Database.  • Handling Complete Configuration issues for the BEA Weblogic portal application.  • Writing Java Page Flow Controllers, Java Database Controls, Schema files and JSP's as per SRS  • Wrote PL/SQL queries for performing Database interactions.  • Code Review as per BEA coding standards. Performance optimization for the PL/SQL queries  • Resolving the bugs with minimal man hours.  • Performed Code reviews and code fixes.  • Handled the client interaction for technical specification on a bi-weekly basis  Environment:  Technology: JDK 1.5, Oracle Weblogic Portal, Portlets, Java Page Flow, Schema Controller.  Server: Weblogic Server  IDE & Framework: Oracle Weblogic Workshop 8.1, Weblogic JPA Portal/Portlets.  Tools: CheckStyle, Jacob Formatter, Toad for Oracle, Microsoft Visio, Log4J.  Database: Oracle 10g. Software Developer Relase3 Inc December 2008 to August 2009 Canada Dec 2008 - Aug 2009  Project #10: Report Migration Tool (Oracle Report To Java Birt Report Migration Tool).  Designation: Software Developer  Description: Report Migration Tool System is a Standalone application to migrate Oracle Report to Java Birt Report. The Main Concept behind it to Migrate Oracle report (*.rdf) to (*.XML) using rwconverter. After that convert that Oracle Report (*.xml) file to the Birt Report XML file (*.rpdesign) format I used SAX Parser (Read) and Dom Parser (Write) for xml conversion.  Responsibilities:  • Gathering the requirements from the functional team and structured them in a simple way for achieving the business objectives.  • Analyzed the requirements, design and developing various modules.  • Used SAX & DOM parser to achieve objectives.  • Worked on Birt Reports viewer in testing phase.  • Worked as End to End programmer for this tool.  • Documented & Provided Training and End User Support and also knowledge transfer.  Environment:  Technology: JDK 1.5, Java/J2EE (JSP, EJB), Birt Report, XML (Sax and Dom Parser).  Server: Tomcat Server  IDE & Framework: Eclipse (Ganymede 3.4), MyEclipse 7.1, Struts Framework.  Tools: CheckStyle, Jacob Formatter, Toad for Oracle, Microsoft Visio, Log4J.  Database: Oracle 10g, Oracle Form. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE, JDBC, ORACLE, SQL, BEA, BEA WEBLOGIC, ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JBOSS, JNDI, jQuery, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, AJAX, TOMCAT, Angularjs, Java J2Ee, Javascript