Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Cortina Productions Inc Philadelphia, PA Interactive developer with 7-years of experience using Unity3D, C#, and other frameworks to  develop high quality educational games, interactive environments, and other learning tools for clients  in the public and private sector both domestically and abroad. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Cortina Productions Inc - McLean, VA May 2015 to Present • Architect software for interactives in museums, classrooms, and corporate offices.  • Write custom components for easy reuse in Unity, HTML and WPF frameworks.  • Oversee a team of developers through a life cycle of a project.  • "Game Day VR for the National Soccer Hall of Fame" - Win (C#, Unity3D, HTC Vive,  SteamVR)  o VR simulation of playing goalie for the Women's or Men's National Soccer teams.  o Developed the architecture and wrote base code for the project.  o Oversaw the completion of the project.  • "World Bank AR App and Table" - iOS and Win (C#, Unity3D, iOS, Vuforia)  o Vuforia based Unity app used on an iPad.  o The markers for the app were created from a 100" digital display.  o The table app utilizes motion sensors and communication from the iPads to switch  states.  o Wrote a unique Unity app to link the tablets and table.  o Created a specialized version of the internal CMS downloading software to work in Unity and iOS. Redesigned the CMS software to be a standalone app that launces  Unity applications.  • "San Francisco 49ers S.T.E.M Lab" - Networked Class Room (C#, Unity3D, WPF,  Network Communication)  o The classrooms host one teacher tablet and up to 30 student tablets logged in along with a main wall display communicating via a main server application.  o Wrote entry apps for the tablets and wall in WPF that communicated to nested  smaller apps created in Unity3D or WPF via a custom bridge plugin.  • "Mountain Fish Royal Alberta Museum" - RFID interactive (C#, Unity, RFID, WPF)  o Physical and digital interactive that used RFID tags and readers to educate users on trout habitats in Alberta, Canada.  o Users move RFID tagged models of the fish through zones of a river inlayed on a tabletop.  o Wrote a WPF to send the RFID information to the Unity app using TCP/IP.  Maceika resume  1 of 3  • "Digital Signage for Dallas Holocaust Museum" - Win (HTML5, CSS3, Angular7,  JavaScript)  o Digital Signage piece that connected to backend CMS to display museum  information.  o Wrote networked communication between the museum's theater and the Digital  Signage to display timing of the current showing.  o Designed the web app to run on multiple screens from a single source PC.  • "Battle Explorer Yorktown Museum" - Large Format Map (C#, Unity3D)  o Uses a 50k plus pixel illustrated map separated in to smaller 8k panels so users can  zoom in deeply without losing quality.  o The R&D on this project informed future work with large format maps.  o Improved and expanded on the initial version of this project in order to accommodate 200 individual battles, associated images, and data associated with  each.  o Optimized software to run smoothly on existing hardware despite large datasets.  o Used typical Gals Peters projection formulas to plot points accurately on the map where battles occurred. Independent Low Voltage Electrician Chicagoland, IL IT Tech January 1999 to May 2015 Contract Low Voltage/ IT Tech  • Pull cables and wire patch panels for LAN.  • Build computers to a customer's specs.  • Troubleshoot network issues.  • Install jacks for Cat5/6 and telephone systems.  • Install and build home theater systems. Software Developer M1 Interactive - Chicago, IL October 2013 to January 2014 - Python Command Line Script (Python, XML)  o Wrote a python script that uploads videos to YouTube using the YouTube API in order to make videos accessible to visitors and client.  o Parsing and modifying an XML for entered data and upload it to a remote data base.  o Easily upload thumbnail images to a remote server.  • "Game Show Kit" - Unity Asset Store Package (C#, Unity3D)  o Base package created as mini games for larger games or as standalone games for trade show environments.  o Games were based on popular TV game shows like Wheel of Fortune and The Price is  Right. Interactive Developer Next/Now Agency Inc - Saint Charles, IL January 2013 to October 2013 Status Tower" - Web Based App (HTML5, CSS, PHP, JavaScript)  o Web app that displays across a video wall split in to three groups of two monitors.  o Used the Twitter API to search for specific tweets based on user input.  o Used Yahoo weather and a JavaScript library to visually display weather conditions.  • "V.I.A. Steelcase" - iPad Controlled App (C#, Unity, Touch, iOS )  o Implemented client/server control from iPad to PC.  o Using Unity controlled a presentation via iPad using RPC commands.  o Played high resolution video within Unity smoothly using a plugin based in QuickTime.  • "NEC Cube Puzzle" - 3D Puzzle Game (C#, Unity, Touch)  o Engineered game from alpha to master.  o Designed the game for play on NEC's 65" touch display.  o Created a work around of uni-Tuio to work with multi-touch.  • "Particle Wall" - Interactive wall (C#, Unity, Kinect)  o Based on the idea of streaming data between two people.  o Particles flow from the hands of one user to the other user's hands.  o Intentionally designed as a passive interactive environment.  Maceika resume  2 of 3 Contract Unity3D Developer Career Education Corporation - Schaumburg, IL July 2012 to October 2012 • "BIO 125 & BIO 112" - 3D Interactive Labs (C#, Unity)  o Designed and programmed simple interactives based on biology labs.  o Constructed interactive 3D lab environments with assets in Unity 3D.  o Developed the labs to function efficiently in a web player format. Education Associate of Applied Sciences Degree in Game & Interactive Media Tribeca Flashpoint Media Arts Academy Chicago August 2010 to June 2012 General Education, Fine Arts Southern Illinois University Carbondale August 2002 to July 2003 General Education, Fine Arts McHenry County College Crystal Lake August 1999 to July 2002 Skills .NET (7 years), ASP (Less than 1 year), C# (7 years), CSS (3 years), HTML (3 years), JavaScript (3 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), MS OFFICE (10+ years), networking (7 years), PHP (1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), WINDOWS PRESENTATION FOUNDATION (3 years), WPF (4 years), HTML 5 (3 years), Android, Git (2 years), XML (7 years)