Sr. Software Developer @ CPA Network Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> @ CPA Network Sr. Software Developer @ CPA Network - Cloud Computing Frisco, TX • 8 years of Experience in the Information Technology field in various Development and Architectural Roles.    • Successful in meeting new technical challenges and finding solutions to meet customer needs.    • A Quick learner, Self-starter, highly motivated individual with strong analytical power, Problem-solving abilities.    • Primary Work Area includes Java, J2EE, Hibernate, JPA, Struts and various Spring Modules    • Hands on with SQL Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers etc with Oracle (PL/SQL) and Sybase.    • Ability to work in Fast Paced Environments practicing Agile or Waterfall Methodologies, Test Driven Development (TDD) and Iterative Development Process.    • Efficient and productive working on large scale and highly integrated systems through each phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as an Individual and also as a Team Member.    • Excellent team player securing strong communication and interpersonal, analysis skills with ability to lead the team of programmers. Work Experience Sr. Software Developer @ CPA Network Cloud Computing - Dallas, TX September 2012 to Present CPS)  CPA Network is a Dallas based CPA Firm managing Accounting, Taxation, Audits and Payroll Services and Back Office Support to over hundreds of Clients who are either CPAs or Individual Entities. It is integrated with most of the States and Federal Government Taxation Services (IRS, Labor etc). System is very intelligent as it estimates and pays most of the taxes online for the Payrolls ran. The reporting is a big plus as it provides By Client, By Employee, Total Cost to Company, Total wages or Taxes paid in a month, year or custom date range. It also provides easy on boarding for the New Client or Employee.  System is in Production with over a hundred Clients and the Development and Technical Support Services are on the table.  Technologies/Platforms:  Spring MVC, JSP, Hibernate, JPA, JMS, Spring-JAXR REST WebServices, Eclipse, Tomcat 6.X, JUnit, Maven, Jenkins, SVN, XML, JavaScript, Oracle 11i etc.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Development and Production Support as a Sr. Software Development.  • Working on Frontend using Spring MVC, JSP.  • Implemented Backend Service Layer using Spring Framework and Data Access Layer using Hibernate and JPA.  • Worked on Transactional and Multithreaded Business Components to maintain the Application Integrity and Performance.  • Used Restful Services using Spring JAXR for Tax Integration  • Used TDD Methodology using JUnit.  • Used Maven and Jenkins to setup the Continuous Integration (CI) to main the Source Code Integrity  • Worked on Troubleshooting Production Issues, Analyzing Root Cause and Fixing in timely manner.  • Briefly worked on PL/SQL programming  • Used OAD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Involved in testing, debugging, performance tuning, bugs fixing and documentation of the overall system. Sr. Software Developer Transplace Inc - Frisco, TX May 2008 to June 2010 TMS (Transportation Management System)  The Application provides the strategic logistic platform to manufacturers, retailers, chemical and consumer packaged goods companies. Platform offers loads optimization besides managing carriers, freights, FCL, LTL, Cargo, Charters, Distribution and Warehousing. It also has the capabilities such as Volume Management, Freight Bill Audit/Payment, Rate Engine, Rate Benchmarking, Equipment & Space Allocation, Tracking & Tracing, Customized Reporting, Brokerage Services, Domestic & International Distribution and Warehouse Project Management. Platform encapsulates the critical sub systems such as Transportation Management System (TMS) and Supply Chain Network Planning and Design to high-quality brokerage services.  Technologies/Platforms  Spring MVC, Spring Integration, JSP, AJAX, Hibernate, JPA, JMS, SOAP WebServices, Apache SOLR, Eclipse, WebLogic 8.1, Mockito, JUnit, Maven, Jenkins, Clearcase, XML, JavaScript, Oracle 9i, VSS, TOAD, Jprobe, LoadRunner on Windows.  Role/Responsibilities  • Involved in Overall System Development and Production Support as a Sr. IT Consultant.  • Worked on Frontend using Spring MVC, JSP, AJAX.  • Implemented Backend Service Layer, Data Access Layer and Messaging Layers using Spring Framework, Spring Integration, JMS, Data Access Layer using Hibernate and JPA.  • Worked on Transactional and Multithreaded Business Components to maintain the Application Integrity and Performance.  • Utilized Apache SOLR for the Free Text Search from UI using Restful Services and SOLR Queries  • Used TDD Methodology using Mockito (Java Mocking), JUnit etc.  • Used Maven and Jenkins to setup the Continuous Integration (CI) to main the Source Code Integrity  • Extensively worked on Troubleshooting Production Issues, Analyzing Root Cause and Fixing in timely manner.  • Worked on the database design, normalization, PL/SQL programming (Indexing / Procedure / Triggers / Cursors) etc.  • Extensively used OAD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Involved in testing, debugging, performance tuning, bugs fixing and documentation of the overall system. Sr. IT Consultant Milestone Technologies, Inc - Dallas, TX January 2006 to April 2008 Supply Chain Management System  The system is an N-Tier Web Product supports tracking, monitoring and automating processing vital shipments along the supply chain. The system provides various graphical views to track the shipments and also generates variety of reports for in depth analysis. The system is continuously getting updated by carriers and global operating systems provides the information one needs to stay nimble, make critical decisions and improve results.  Technologies/Platforms  Struts MVC, JSP, Hibernate, JPA, JMS, WebServices, Maven, Hudson, Eclipse, Tomcat 6.X, JUnit, SVN, XML, JavaScript, Oracle 9i, TOAD, Jprobe, LoadRunner.  Role/Responsibilities  • Involved in analysis, design, development and enhancement of the overall System for Tracking Engine and Processing Unit modules as a Sr. IT Consultant.  • Responsible for developing analysis documents such as SRS (System Requirement Specification), High Level Design, Detailed Design etc and also developed the Basic system workflow and System Framework to be used for the overall development.  • Involved in the business tier implementation based on Design Patterns, EJB, JMS, JAXP, JavaMail, JDBC etc and also involved in the Presentation Prototype design and implementation with JSP, XML, XSL, JavaScripts etc.  • Designed and implemented Webservices business components and clients.  • Designed and developed JSP pages with Html, JavaScripts, XML, XSL and implemented EJB components and deployed under the WebLogic 8.1 server.  • Worked on the database design, normalization, PL/SQL programming (Indexing / Procedure / Triggers / Cursors) etc.  • Extensively used OAD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Involved in testing, debugging, performance tuning, bugs fixing and documentation of the overall system. Sr. Software Developer Verizon Communications - Irving, TX September 2004 to March 2005 Work Flow Management Product for the Call Center Operations  The system is a Distributed Application designed to optimize and manage customer call center operations. It includes the ACD (Automated Call Distribution) engine that receives the customer calls and routes effectively to the call center operators. Customer calls and inquiries could be received via Telephonic, Online chat or Emails. It also supports daily reporting for the received and handled inquiries by call center and operator to find out the effectiveness of individual and load distribution.  Technologies/Platforms:  Java, J2EE, Struts, EJB, JSP, JMS, IBM MQ Series, Servlets, Ant, Web Services, XML, XSL, DTD, Schemas, JavaScript, JDBC 2.0, JNDI-LDAP, JNI, JAXP (DOM), C, C++, Oracle 8i, WebLogic 8.0, Clear case, Bugzilla, Jprobe, Jbuilder on Windows.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, development of the key modules of the system, Automated Call Distribution engine (ACD) as a Sr. Software Consultant.  • Involved in designing and developing the front end with Struts, JSP on JavaScripts, XML, XSL.  • Worked on critical business components with EJB, JMS, JDBC and Java Bean.  • Extensively worked on business tier with various Design Patterns, Webservices, EJB, JMS, JAXP, JavaMail, JDBC etc on WebLogic.  • Extensively used OAD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Worked on business components design and implementation and database design, normalization, PL/SQL programming (Indexing / Procedure / Triggers).  • Worked on session management and security of the system.  • Involved in testing, debugging, performance tuning, bugs fixing and documentation of the system. Software Developer ACS Inc - Dallas, TX May 2004 to September 2004 Centralized Documentation Management System (CDMS)  The system is developed for the COOK County of Illinois to manage the professional and official documentation of the county. It is a 3-tier Web Application developed to provide the access of centralized documents across the county offices and branches. The system has the centralized database storing documents and other contents. It also supports uploading, downloading documents as well as searching the documents based on wide range of search criteria. The web interface also provides the shopping cart for documents catalogue, order management, payment gateway through verisign etc.  Technologies/Platforms:  Java, J2EE, JSP, JFC Swings, Struts Framework, XML, XSL, DTD, JDBC, JAXP (SAX), Sybase, WebLogic 8.1, JBuilder, Jmeter, VSS, Bug Tracker.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the each phase of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the overall System.  • Actively participated in Design and Development of the entire system and Preparation of functional and technical design.  • Involved in development of web component using JSP, MVC architecture, Servlets, JavaScripts, XML, XSL, JDBC etc.  • Implemented the business logic under the simple EJB, JMS, Java Bean, Java Mail components to be used under the various modules in the System.  • Extensively used the OAD concepts in the overall design and development of the system.  • Involved in testing, debugging, bugs fixing and documentation of the system. Export Management (CDIEM) Customizable Data Import - Denver, CO March 1998 to April 2004 The Application solves a unique business problem of managing legacy data in variety of forms like Flat files, EXCEL, Mainframe DB2 and other ORDBMS Databases. It provides a common UI Platform to transfer the data across multiple sources.    Central Data Integration and Management System • Colorado Department of Transportation, Denver CO  This N-Tier Application is developed for the automation and management of the central database of the DOT for their live projects, assignments, maintenance and renovation jobs. The system integrates all regions and consultants of CDOT with the central database server to make the data and information available centrally across all of them. The data is being communicated in the form of XML and the management and administration tools are provided on the web as well as on the desktops Swing Applications for the data management/update.    Sales Force Automation System • Systec International Inc., Concord CA  This N-Tier MVC architecture Application is developed for a Heath Care Organization. The product was used to maintain, monitor and administer the Sales activities to achieve effectiveness and efficiency and customer satisfaction. It facilitates services such as online access to sales resources, online updates to sales representatives for new information/tasks, business calculators etc. It also manages business leads, cases, opportunities, contacts, accounts, auto task alerts, task-activities schedules, common business drafts, business forecasts, reports, quotations etc.    Technologies/Platforms:  Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS, JAXP, JDBC, Java Swing, WebServices, XML, XSL, DTD, Oracle, Sybase, DB2, Tomcat, WebLogic 8.1, Eclipse, Ant, Maven, SVN, Clearcase etc.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, development for the overall system as a Software Developer  • Worked on Frontend using JSP, Backend using EJB, Various Design Patterns, Hibernate etc.  • Also involved in writing critical business components using EJB and JMS.  • Implemented SOAP Web Services to propagate business logic to different clients.  • Involved in XML data structures design for the data communication.  • Worked on the database design, normalization, PL/SQL programming (Indexing/ Procedure/ Triggers/ Cursors).  • Involved in testing, debugging, performance tuning, bugs fixing and documentation of the system. Additional Information Technical Expertise    • Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Integration, Spring MVC, Struts    • MyBatis, Hibernate, JPA, JTA, PL/SQL, ORDBMS (Oracle, MySQL, Sybase, DB2, SQL Server)    • JUnit, Test Driven Development (TDD), Mockito, In-Memory Databases(Derby, H2), XML, Javascript Agile, Maven, Log4J, Eclipse, SVN, Clearcase, Hudson, Jenkins, MQ Series, , UML, HP QC, Load Runner, Unix    • Web Containers(Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic), JSON, SOAP, WebServices    • Moderate Knowledge of C, C++, Free Text Search Engine (SOLR), ESB