Python Automation Testing Engineer Python Automation Testing Engineer Python Automation Testing Engineer - SimpleLegal Teaneck, NJ • 9+Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, C, Django in various domains.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concept using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced with full software development, architecture scalable platforms, database design, etc.  • Excellent knowledge on Predictive Modelling using python and K-mean Clustering for Python Machine Language.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Experienced in designing web pages and Graphical user interfaces, front end layouts on the web by using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap framework, PHP, XML, JavaScript, node JS and Angular JS.  • Developed Web-based applications using Python, Amazon Web Services, jQuery, CSS and Model View control frameworks like Django, Flask and JavaScript.  • Good experience with design, coding, debug operations, reporting and data analysis utilizing python and using python libraries to speed up development.  • Libraries used: Pandas data frame, network, Beautiful soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, urlib2, JSON libraries and MySQL database for connectivity.  • Hands on experience with Big Data environment on technologies including Hadoop.  • Experience customizing JIRA projects with various schemas, complex workflows, screen schemes, permission schemes, and notification schemes.  • Experiences with Unit testing/ Test Driven Development (TDD), and Load testing.  • Knowledge on JSON BASED REST, SOAP and Amazon Web Services cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS CloudWatch, Auto-scaling, IAM user management and AWS S3.  • Managed servers on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform instances using Puppet, chef configuration management.  • Good experience coding in using various IDEs like NetBeans, Sublime Text, Spyder, PyCharm.  • Worked on Python OpenStack API's.  • Good in writing Sub Queries, stored procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL databases.  • Good in developing, implementing, and improving processes by bringing engineering, Operations, QA, and Product Management.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Hands-on experience on monitoring tools like Nagios and Amazon Cloud Watch to maintain properly various systems on different environments.  • Created Secured Cloud infrastructure using (VPC) for Staging and Development environment on AWS.  • Developed Cloud Formation templates, also launched AWS Elastic Beanstalk for deploying, monitoring and scaling web applications using different platforms like Java, Docker, Python etc.  • Expertise in AWS Resources like EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Security Groups.  • Working experience with cloud infrastructure of AWS (Amazon Web Services) and computing  AMI virtual machines on Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).  • Experience in executing Organization DevOps methodology in different situations of LINUX and Windows servers alongside adopting cloud procedures based on Amazon Web Services.  • Involved in integrating the GIT into the Puppet to ensure the integrity of applications by creating Production, Development, Test, and Release Branches.  • Maintained Git repositories for DevOps environment: Version control and build automation integrating git into Jenkins.  • Have experience with AWS LAMBDA which runs the code with response of events.  • Developed custom Ansible playbook and integrated in Jenkins post configuration for setting up the automated build pipeline for GIT repository projects.  • Experience in using an ORM like Entity Framework or SQLAlchemy. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Automation Testing Engineer SimpleLegal - Teaneck, NJ April 2018 to Present Cognizant is an American multinational corporation that provides IT services, including digital, technology, consulting, and operations services. United States. Cognizant is included in the NASDAQ-100 and the S&P 500 indices.    Responsibilities:  • Converted 200 plus test cases from old framework to new framework  • Written 100 plus keywords in robot framework  • Automated new functionalities and added new features in the test logs  • Allocation of work to the team, Follow up to get the work done on time.  • Worked on distributed test automation execution on different environment as part of Continuous Integration Process using Selenium Grid and Jenkins.  • Experience in all stages of the Software Development Life Cycle and QA Life Cycle and in all dimensions of Functionality, Usability & Reliability.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug  • Worked on infrastructure with Docker containerization.  • Automated web server content deployments via shell scripts.  • Scripting in multiple languages on UNIX, LINUX - Bash, Shell script etc.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.  • Developed Python scripts for testing the car functioning on different services.  • Experience in using an ORM like Entity Framework or SQLAlchemy.  • Shares expertise throughout the organization and may provide user training for products    Environment: Robot Framework, Eclipse, RIDE Python, Linux, Windows Shell Scripting, JIRA, GitHub. Python Developer Marriott - Gaithersburg, MD July 2017 to March 2018 Marriott International, Inc. is a leading global lodging company with more than 6,500 properties across 127 countries and te rritories, reporting revenues of more than $22 Marriott was ranked #33 on Fortune's "100 Best Companies to Work For" list, its twentieth appearance on the list. Founded by J. Willard and Alice Marriott and guided by family leadership for nearly 90 years, the company is headquartered outside of Washington, D.C. in Bethesda, Maryland.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript in developing web applications.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's, used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services(AWS).  • Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, DynamoDB, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups and archives to Glacier archives, and configured AWS Redshift for data Warehousing.  • Created AWS Launch configurations based on customized AMI and use this launch configuration to configure auto scaling groups.  • Utilized Cloud Watch Events to collect data from other AWS resources and transfer them to SQS and SNS for alerting solar.  • Created S3 buckets in AWS and stored files and Enabled Versioning and Security for files stored.  • Worked on Selenium testing framework.  • Used CloudFront to deliver content from AWS edge locations to users, allowing for further reduction of load on front-end servers.  • Experienced in Installing, Configuring and Managing Docker Containers, Docker Images for Web Servers and Applications servers such as Apache Tomcat using Docker and integrated with Amazon MySQL RDS database.  • Writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL databases.  • Developed automation scripts to test storage appliances in Python.  • Experience in using an ORM like Entity Framework or SQLAlchemy  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Involved in Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Oracle database with Python.  • Worked with python Unit test library which was used for testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Used AJAX for Better interactivity for the end user and easier navigation and AJAX is compact.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.    Environment: Python, Django, JSON, AJAX, JSON, RESTful, SQL, MYSQL, PostgreSQL, AWS, Docker, XML, Open stack API, CloudFront JavaScript, GIT, SOAP, PyCharm, HTML, CSS. Python Developer SIEMENS - Tarrytown, NY August 2015 to June 2017 Siemens Corporation is a U.S. subsidiary of Siemens AG, a global powerhouse focusing on the areas of electrification, automation and digitalization. One of the world's largest producers of energy-efficient, resource-saving technologies, Siemens is a leading supplier of systems for power generation and transmission as well as medical diagnosis. The company is a prominent maker of medical diagnostics equipment and its medical health-care division, which generates about 12 percent of the company's total sales. In infrastructure and industry solutions the company plays a pioneering role.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD. Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java, C++  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Created Data layer in MYSQL.  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages.  • Migrated applications to the AWS cloud and Involved in DevOps processes for build and deploy systems.  • Build and lead POCs for tools for internal use to support DevOps best practices using Docker for Container based Virtualization and documenting with MS Word and SnagIt.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life.  • Configured and deployed several hypervisors and VMs running OpenStack for DevOps, testing and production environments.  • Worked with the Database Schema design and normalization for database accessed by the procedural PHP pages.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Maintaining strict version control using Git with an understanding of what tasks require branching and which can be done in development.  • Generated SWIG interfaces to co-ordinate between C++, Java and Python. Used JNI for communication between C++ and Java.  • Implemented continuous integration and deployment systems using AWS code pipeline, Jenkins, ANT, Maven, Artifactory/Nexus, Ansible and Run deck.  • Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing a complete automation solution.  • Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Debugging and testing of the applications &fine-tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.    Environment: Java, Python, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MySQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Jenkins, Unix Shell Scripting, Angular JS, TCP/IP, UDP, SNMP, GIT, Red Hat Linux, AWS. Python Developer Huawei Technologies - Bellevue, WA September 2013 to July 2015 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. is a Chinese multinational networking, telecommunications equipment, and services company headquartered in Shenzhen, Guangdong. Huawei was founded in 1987 by Ren Zhengfei, a former engineer in the People's Liberation Army. It is the largest telecommunications equipment manufacturer in the world, having overtaken Ericsson in 2012. At the time of its establishment, Huawei focused on manufacturing phone switches, but has since expanded its business to include building telecommunications networks, providing operational and consulting services and equipment to enterprises inside and outside of China, and manufacturing communications devices for the consumer market.    Responsibilities:  • Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery and JSON.  • A Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  • JIRA was used to build an environment for development.  • Used web applications development using Django/Python, Flask/Python, and, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, selenium testing was performed. Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery &Ruby on rails.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, and matplotlib.  • Was involved in the environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers  • Experience in using an ORM like Entity Framework or SQLAlchemy  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, C++, JavaScript, SQL Server, HTML, DHTML, Jenkins, CSS, Linux, jQuery, JSON, AJAX. Software Developer Realogy Holdings Corp September 2011 to August 2013 Realogy Holdings Corp. is an American publicly owned company real estate and relocation services company. It owns and franchises several real estate brands and brokerages, and offers relocation, title and settlement services.    Responsibilities:  • Dealt with administrating a server system using a mobile device.  • Involved in developing code, utilizing the object oriented design principles, Unit and Integration Testing and Developed and maintained Perl/Ant scripts for build and release tasks.  • Was part of writing SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, involved in modifications to the existing database structure.  • Expertise SVN as the version control tool for the Code to commit and fetch.  • Used Core Java and J2EE for developments and Modified ANT scripts to build the JAR, Classes.  • Involved in editing the existing ANT (Build.XML) files in case of errors or changes in the project requirements and Developed remote network administration application for the R&D department.  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Involved in gathering initial software requirements for the application.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the applications using Java, J2EE, JDBC.  • Developed MVC Model Classes which route submissions via Business Delegate to the appropriate business components and render retrieved information.  • Developed executable Java code to process the work flows.  • Taken care of complete Java multi-threading part in back end components.  • Involved in developing Login, Registration, Logout, Listeners, jsp's.  • Wrote JavaScript for client side validation.  • Designed and developed the original prototype for a highly-complex, interactive, graphical, web user-interface using standards-compliant JavaScript  • Involved in developing JS for the jsp pages developed.    Environment: UNIX, JUnit, SVN, Java, Jenkins, Java/J2EE, REST Services SVN, GIT, Apache Maven, Tomcat, Spring Framework, SOAP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, Bootstrap, XML. MYSQL, DNS, Linux, Windows. Software Developer Rapid Info Tech Solutions July 2009 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Demonstrate solid working knowledge of any mainstream object-oriented programming language, ideally C#, Javascript, Typescrip  • Have a deep understanding of back end/server/api development, including application and database/data development and architectures  • Demonstrate solid working knowledge of these mainstream front end technologies ideally Javascript, TypeScript, React, Mobx, & CSS.  • Have a deep understanding of front end development and architectures  • Possess broad applicable knowledge of data/database technologies including traditional RDBMS's (SQL Server), and NoSql specifically MongoDB.  • Display working knowledge of the SQL language and/or SQL-based relational database system(s) (i.e. MySql, SQL Server, Oracle, etc.) Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (4 years), ANT (3 years), Bootstrap (3 years), C. (3 years), GIT (5 years), Java (3 years), jQuery (4 years), jsp (3 years), LINUX (6 years), Maven (3 years), MS SQL SERVER (4 years), MySQL (8 years), PL/SQL (3 years), Python (5 years), SQL (8 years), SQL Server (4 years), Subversion (3 years), SVN (3 years), UNIX (5 years), XML (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Python, C++, SQL, PL/SQL.  IDE's PyCharm, Emacs, Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio, Sublime, SOAP UI.  Web Technologies,other Django, Flask, Pyramid, Servlets, JSP, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, XML/XSD, X Path, XSLT, Java Script, jQuery, Web Services (Soap, Restful), Amazon Webservices like EC2, S3, ELB, EBS, SES, Selenium, PyUnit.  Databases SQL Server, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, Cassandra.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Bootstrap, QT CherryPy, web2py, Tornado, Pyramid, Robot  Web Servers JBoss 4.0.5, BEA Web Logic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0  Version Controls SVN, VSS, CVS, Git.  Operating Systems MS Windows 9X/NT/XP/2003, Linux/Unix, Sun Solaris, OS X.  Building& Design Tools ANT, MAVEN, Gulp, UML, IBM Rational Rose, Ansible, JIRA, GNU Debugger Bugzilla  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall.