Information Developer Information <span class="hl">Developer</span> ColdFusion Developer Herndon, VA More than 10 years experience in website development. Experience includes website planning, design implementation, e-commerce programming, SQL Server administration, website maintenance and documentation. Certified Microsoft Technology Associate. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Developer Perspecta June 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Provide technical support to efforts translating ColdFusion code to equivalent Java code for the Facilities Management System owned by the United States Postal Service.  • Provide detailed analysis of ColdFusion code, including user role analysis, query analysis, and software architecture analysis.  • Use software project management tools VersionOne and ALM to document analysis, tasks, error tracking, and error fixes.  • Respond to customer help desk tickets on an as-needed basis. Contractor Developer DXC Technology January 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities  • Maintenance and enhancements to the Facilities Management System owned by the United States Postal Service.  • Respond to customer help desk tickets providing problem identification and analysis as well as solution implementation.  • Provide technical support to efforts translating ColdFusion code to equivalent Java code.  • Use software project management tools VersionOne and ALM to document analysis, tasks, error tracking, and error fixes. ColdFusion Specialist Intercoastal Net Designs September 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities  • Responsible for maintenance and updates of websites primarily for vacation rental and real estate businesses.  • Using a custom framework, make changes in functionality and user experience using ColdFusion and JQuery or Javascript.  • Provide customer support on an as needed basis.  • Perform periodically scheduled weekend support for web hosting customers.  • Work with UI developers to enhance the design of data-driven website features. ColdFusion Consultant PRG Consulting July 2014 to March 2015 Worked with PRG Consulting while under contract to New Point Media)  Responsibilities  • ColdFusion developer responsible for upgrading a legacy ColdFusion application to ColdFusion 11.  • Tasks include moving blocks of code to CF components to improve maintainability and allow re-use of code.  • Develop new processes to take advantage of new functionality including CFAJAX, , cfspreadsheet functions, cfimage functions, and conversion of documents to PDF documents.  • Daily maintenance and troubleshooting of current application. Senior Software Developer New Point Media 2011 to 2015 Responsibilities  • Primary ColdFusion developer responsible for creating ColdFusion components and web services to move information from database to client and from client to database.  • Responsible for client services using Mura, a ColdFusion based content management system.  • Troubleshoot issues with ColdFusion based applications and recommend / implement solutions.  • Lead for New Point Media's Business Catalyst product, a turn-key web business system.  • Assist with customer service and training. Online Applications Developer New Era Cap 2005 to 2008 Responsibilities  • Maintained New Era Cap website, built completely on ColdFusion. Implemented changes to e-commerce portion of website to improve performance and enhance customer experience.  • Maintained database (MS SQL 2005) servers for neweracap.com, neweracap.co.uk, as well as intranet SQL server. Responsibilities included creating new users, writing stored procedures, and troubleshooting. Planned and developed next-generation New Era Cap website utilizing Coldfusion components, Adobe Flash and Flex builder technologies.  • Administered New Era's intranet site, including creating new users and making necessary programming changes.  • Created and maintained DTS packages to transfer e-commerce orders to SAP system.  • Implemented changes to customer check out process for special offers and promotions.  • Created reports for web sales analysis. Programmer Northern Lights Candles 2003 to 2005 Responsibilities  • Designed and implemented data-driven web-based software applications for management of the Northern Lights at Home and the Northern Lights Candles business units utilizing ColdFusion.  • Integrated web-enabled applications with in-house legacy software systems.  • Managed SQL Server database for Northern Lights at Home.  • Maintained web site for Northern Lights at Home and secure Sales Representatives Only site.  • Trained users of the applications and implemented user-suggested improvements.  • Maintained and upgraded existing software applications. Education Bachelor's of Technology in Software Application Development State University of New York College of Technology at Alfred - New York, NY 2001 to 2003 Master of Science in Ceramic Engineering in Ceramic Engineering Clemson University - Clemson, SC 1983 to 1984 Bachelor of Science in Ceramic Engineering in Ceramic Engineering Alfred University - New York, NY 1977 to 1981 Skills COLDFUSION (10+ years), SQL SERVER (6 years), SQL (6 years), JAVA (1 year), jQuery (1 year), Oracle (2 years), MYSQL, Javascript, Git, Android Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Technology Associate May 2015 to Present Additional Information Technical Skills  • Languages: ColdFusion, JQuery, Java, VB.NET, SQL, HTML, XML, Javascript, C, C++, CSS.  • RDBMS: Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL.  • IDE: Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio .NET, CF Builder, Adobe Dreamweaver  • Management tools: VersionOne, ALM