Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Graphics/Imaging/Tools/Windows/C++ Software Developer -- Remote/Telecommute Corvallis, OR Remote C++ software developer with lots of experience in Windows desktop application development, 2D/3D graphics, geospatial algorithms and file formats, image processing, and tools/libraries for developers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Golden Software - Golden, CO 1998 to 2019 Responsible for developing and improving Golden's scientific visualization applications for Windows. Full software development life cycle experience from start to finish to ongoing maintenance on multiple commercial software products, on a team with 3-5 other senior level developers. Some technical highlights:  ? Developed software to read, write, and display over 40 different kinds of graphic files and databases (GIS, scientific, medical, 3D models, etc).  ? Improved the performance and feature set of Golden's 2D and 3D graphics engines.  ? Developed libraries of high-speed geospatial functions (e.g. coordinate conversions, map reprojection, image warping, etc).  ? Developed the front-end client and back-end server software for Golden's crash reporting system, which detects when our application has crashed on a customer's computer and sends detailed debugging information to our developers.  ? Translated numerous mathematical formulas from books and research papers into reliable, testable C++ code.  ? Developed Golden's library of basic image processing functions.  ? Interfaced more than 30 different third party SDKs and libraries to Golden's code base.  ? Responsible for maintaining and improving a developer code base of over 1.2 million lines of in-house C++ code.    Programming at Golden is mostly C++ in Microsoft Visual Studio, with occasional bits of other languages like C, C#, VisualBASIC, Python, FORTRAN, and x86 assembly language, depending on the needs of each project. Golden uses Git for source control, Jenkins for continuous integration, and JIRA for task management.  Software Developer (Contract) Safari Software - Potomac, MD 1996 to 1997 Developed low-level graphics, audio, joystick, and modem device drivers for PC games. Programming in C, C++, and x86 assembly language. Software Engineer Adaptive Solutions - Beaverton, OR 1994 to 1996 Developed programming tools, hardware diagnostics, and device drivers for ASI's parallel processor boards. These were PC add-on boards with up to 256 "CNAPS" processors that were used for machine learning and image processing applications. Also ported earlier versions of the CNAPS compiler, assembler, debugger, and linker tools from SunOS (UNIX) to Windows and to MacOS. Software Engineer Central Point Software - Beaverton, OR 1993 to 1994 Developed the "emergency recovery" portion of Central Point's enterprise backup application. This software was responsible for restoring basic system resources like CMOS settings, disk drive partition tables, and a minimal bootable system capable of running the main file restoration application. Written in C, C++, and x86 assembly languages with modules running on three operating systems (MS-DOS, Windows, and the NetWare NLM server operating system). Software Engineer III / Software Project Leader PC-Kwik Corporation (formerly Multisoft Corporation) - Beaverton, OR 1990 to 1993 Developed and maintained computer management and utility products for MS-DOS and 16-bit Windows, such as PC hardware diagnostics, file management, disk partitioning and defragmenting, data compression, task switchers/launchers, and so on. Programming in C and x86 assembly language. Was promoted to a technical lead position after one year. Graphics Software Engineer Metheus Corporation - Beaverton, OR 1989 to 1990 Developed graphics firmware (BIOS) and AutoCAD-specific device drivers for high performance GPU boards. Optimized older graphics software for dramatic speed improvements. Wrote libraries and development tools to help 3rd party developers use the company's GPU boards. Wrote hardware diagnostic programs and installation programs for GPU boards and VGA boards. Programming in C and x86 assembly language. Software Engineer / Project Manager Control-C Software, Inc. - Beaverton, OR 1986 to 1989 The first year at CCS, I ported IBM PC applications to the ICL DRS-300 minicomputer (in x86 assembly language). The second year I was a technical project leader on a handful of device driver development projects that were contracted to the company by 3rd party hardware manufacturers (in C and x86 assembly language on MS-DOS and early versions of Windows). This included graphic display drivers, printer drivers, mouse drivers, CD-ROM drivers, and similar. The third year I was promoted to project manager and assigned to take over a troubled graphics driver project, which my team and I were able to turn around and get back on schedule with creative solutions and hard work. Computer Repair Tech / Software Developer Portland Community College - Portland, OR 1984 to 1985 Performed minor repairs and maintenance on Intel MDS computers and first gen IBM PCs in two of the college's computer rooms. Developed software (in C) for tracking student logins and resource usage on the school's SAGE IV multi-user UNIX system (running AT&T SysV). Electronic Technician / Software Developer Lewis Williams & Associates - Corvallis, OR 1982 to 1983 Assembled and repaired computer boards. Wrote device drivers and utility software in 8080 assembly language. This was a part-time gig during high school. Education Associate in Computer Science Technology Portland Community College - Portland, OR 1984 to 1986 Skills C++ (10+ years), C (10+ years), Python (1 year), x86 Assembly Language (5 years), C# (Less than 1 year), GDAL/OGR (2 years), OpenGL (2 years), DICOM (6 years)