Freelance / Contract Web Developer Freelance / Contract Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Boulder, CO Highly motivated, creative and versatile IT Professional with 20+ years of experience. History of awards and rapid promotion while serving in the US Marine Corps. Relies on extensive experience with a variety of information technology concepts, practices, and procedures to plan and accomplish goals. Able to perform a variety of tasks. A wide degree of creativity and latitude is expected. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance / Contract Web Developer Telecommute 1998 to Present Available for front-end and back-end programming of themes, plugins and more.    Eight years of responsive web design experience on large and small sites (see below).    Technical knowledge and experience with entire process of setting up web, mail and database servers.     Hourly rates start at $50, per project pricing is negotiable.    Recent examples of work include: Skirt Sports, 5280 Magazine, Nicole DeBoom, The Morning Shakeout. Full Stack Developer Pocket Outdoor Media, LLC - Boulder, CO February 2018 to June 2019 Hired to improve and maintain the following WordPress websites; VeloNews.com, Triathlete.com, VeloPress.com, WomensRunning.com, PodiumRunner.com and VeloSwap.com.    Built custom themes and plugins on WordPress 5.1 to handle numerous content types, racing coverage, gear reviews and more.    Responsible for all backend and frontend work as well as migrating to and maintaining sites on Amazon Web Services / Pagely    Manage/connect all aspects of each site including Google Analytics, Google Tag Manager, Google Ad Manager, SEO, security, updates and site speed/uptime. Digital Developer 5280 Publishing, Inc - Denver, CO September 2015 to February 2018 Hired to improve and maintain company website using Drupal with a planned transition to a new site using WordPress.    Migrated 15 years of content from Drupal to Wordress for relaunching 5280.com.    Migrated 7 years of content from Drupal to Wordress for relaunching ColoradoParent.com.    Built custom theme and plugins on WordPress 4.9 to handle numerous post types, professional directories and voting systems. Web Developer Panache Cyclewear, Co - Boulder, CO April 2012 to August 2013 Hired to improve and maintain company website using Magneto with a planned transition to a new site within the first year.    Created ad hoc reporting to show grouped pre-order sales specific to private team stores as well as financial reporting in conjunction with Authorize.net API.    Built shop.panachecyclewear.com using WordPress and Woocommerce. From designs built a custom responsive template and plugins for a new e-commerce site with unique private stores for cycling teams. Web Developer Competitor Group, Inc - Boulder, CO March 2009 to March 2012 Hired to maintain VeloNews website using Drupal/Wordpress. Traffic for 2010 approximately 125,000,000 pageviews and 6,000,000 unique visitors    Migrated 7 years of content from Drupal to Wordpress to combine multiple sites under one Wordpress MU install for Competitor Group, Inc. parent company.    Built custom templates and plugins on Wordpress 2.8 to 3.2. Lead redesign of velonews.com,  competitor.com, triathlete.com using Responsive Web Design techniques to handle mobile, tablet and desktop users. Software Engineer Identity Automation, LP - Houston, TX January 2008 to February 2009 Hired to build and maintain networked applications and websites using open source tools for company and customers.    Setup school websites with Drupal using eDirectory and Active Directory for login and content access control.    Installed and setup Stone-ware WebOS for school systems to control desktop access for students, parents and office personnel.    Use existing knowledge of Mac OS X to support company and customers use of Apple Mac computers in mixed desktop environments. Corporal / MOS 4063 US Marine Corps - Camp Lejeune, NC November 1991 to November 1999 Camp Lejeune, NC - Bodo, Norway - Okinawa, Japan from November 1991 to September 1995 (Member of inactive reserves until November 1999)    Recruited to protect and defend the United States of America. Provided administrative support of computer networks, software and hardware to meet command and troop requirements.    Installed and managed multiple Lotus Notes servers on OS/2 with 100+ clients.    Developed database applications with Lotus Notes and stand alone applications with the Ada Programming Language.    Developed network administration tools with Visual Basic and the Banyan Vines Toolkit for managing users, printers, file access, and email. Education Computer Science School - Quantico, VA 1992 Computer Science University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY 1987 to 1990 Skills XML (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), Sql Server, Jquery, AWS, HTML5, Apache, Scripting Links https://github.com/scotcrop Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E4 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4apn3wbh5gfem4bi Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.