Senior Software Developer / Analyst Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Analyst Senior Developer and Software Engineer San Francisco, CA • Senior Developer and Software Engineer extensively experienced in custom development and enterprise-level application and data environments blending business and technical skills including: full-stack application design and development, web design and development, Agile development, data management, managing developers, leading work efforts, product ownership, SQL development, requirements gathering, detailed design, relational database design, systems integration, and client support.  • Skilled at collaborating with project managers, business analysts, and clients to identify and analyze business processes, functions, and work-flow, in order to formulate software requirements and set technical specifications.  • Extensive experience through entire SDLC from requirements gathering and analysis, to build, test, and environments management, to deployment and post-deployment support.  • Proficient at conveying the most technical and complex information to clients and colleagues at all levels.    Languages and Development Technologies  Python, Django, C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, SQL, JSON, XML, HTML, CSS, Smallworld Magik    Frameworks, Architecture, IDEs  Django ORM, Visual Studio .NET 1.0-4.5 Frameworks, Web API, WPF, WebForms, MVC, MVT, SOA, Web Services, n-Tier, VS Code, PyCharm, WinForms    Database Technologies  SQL Server, Oracle, Stored Procs, SSIS, DTS, Access, Navicat, Toad    DevOps, Tools, Utilities  GitHub, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Vagrant, Virtualbox, Wrike, Atlassian, BitBucket, Balsamiq, JIRA, Confluence, Visual SourceSafe (VSS), Stonebranch Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Developer / Analyst University of Texas at Austin - San Francisco, CA September 2017 to Present • Support the fundraising and engagement efforts for the University of Texas’ Development Office, as part of a Python/Django Agile team overseeing the implementation of software and data solutions to maximize philanthropic performance.  • Dell Medical School (DMS) Prototype for Matching Donor Data - Streamlined a semi-manual process to match DMS donors with existing university data. Using Python, Django, and Oracle, I developed a UI for selecting donor data and a process matching those donors to existing university data and then writing result files to SFTP using SSH key-based authentication.  • Dell Medical School (DMS) Donor and Prospects Data Integration - Collaborated w/DMS and consultants to define requirements. Led solution design w/technical team to detail high-level system architecture and components needed to satisfy requirements. Designed and developed a Django management command project to get daily donor/prospect changes and write them to a .csv file for DMS’ Salesforce System. Tools/Technologies: Python, Django ORM, Oracle, Stonebranch.  • UT Donor Group Data Standardization - Reverse-engineered, developed, and tested a Python/Django/Oracle process for organizing donor information into households and organizations based on a complex set of rules and requirements. This will lead to better prospects development, donor outreach, and more accurate giving calculations. Leading initiative to update all impacted systems, applications, and UIs, spanning across most of the Development office’s team and suite of applications. Senior Applications Developer / Product Owner InteSolv - Austin, TX December 2016 to September 2017 • Senior Applications Developer for custom solutions integrating hardware and software using Microsoft technologies and Agile Development. Responsible for entire SDLC, as well as working and communicating with client directly. C#, VB, ASP.NET, SQL Server, BitBucket, SourceTree, Visual Studio.  • Product Owner for greenfield web application. Responsible for use cases, user stories, requirements documentation, wireframing, communicating to development team, daily scrum meetings with development team, integrated/product test plan design and execution, coordination of QA builds, communicating to executive management. Balsamiq, JIRA, Confluence, TestLodge. Senior Software Developer InteSolv - Austin, TX April 2013 to June 2014 • Senior/Lead Developer for custom solutions integrating hardware and software using Microsoft technologies and Agile Development. Responsible for entire SDLC and worked directly with clients at all levels.  • ADCP - Lead Developer for custom Windows 8 touch/tablet application requiring integration with Bluetooth RFID wands, RFID chips, Serial Connection Weight Scales, and SQL Server using: C#, .NET Framework 4.5, WPF, HTML, XML, SQL Server, Agile Development (Sprints). Responsible for Requirements Gathering, Analysis, On-site workflow processes, Design Development, Testing, Technical Communication, Documentation, Support, Delivery, Hardware Configuration (Bluetooth RFID wands, Serial weight scale). Collaborated with Solution Architect, client Project Managers, client users over multiple visits to client site.  • GLDS API - Designed, Developed, Tested, and Deployed API Service for retrieval of SQL Server data using C#, MVC, XML.  • ADCP Ultrasound Scribe – Designed, Developed, Tested, and Deployed data recording solution that listened to a 3rd party legacy software collecting ultrasound data and wrote that data to a custom SQL Server database, using .NET, C#, and XML. No user action was necessary other than using the existing 3rd party legacy software. Lead Developer Accenture - Austin, TX September 2003 to August 2011 • Lead Developer managing small teams of developers on the TMHP project. Reviewed functional designs with business analysts, state clients, and end-user clients. Collaborated with project managers, business analysts, and clients/customers to identify and analyze business processes, functions, and work-flow, in order to formulate software requirements and set technical specifications.  • Developed and oversaw both new development and modifications of web applications, windows applications, batch applications, SQL server jobs/processes, services, multi-tiered/N-tiered/SOA applications (presentation/process/service/data layers) using all of the following: .NET 2.0/3.5/4.0, C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, WCF/Web Services, SOA, JavaScript, HTML, XML, SQL Server, SQL Server DTS/SSIS, TDD.  • Created high-level, detailed design, and systems/application architecture documents and specifications and assigned to developers for build and test. Oversaw work of developers and took corrective action as needed.  • Migrated legacy databases and applications from MS Access to MS SQL Server and .NET (C#/VB).  • Migrated code base and data through all environments on different hardware for each phase of project (build, unit/component test, product test, regression, production).  • Conducted peer reviews for business requirements, functional designs, detailed designs, code, and test plans.  • Coordinated development across enterprise consisting of different teams, platforms, customers, etc.  • Subject Matter Expert (SME) for all applications and functions within the Primary Care Case Management (PCCM) program for Medicaid providers and clients. Software Engineer GeoSpatial Innovations, Inc - Austin, TX June 2002 to April 2003 • Developed new product for GSI, the BaseFileManager, a multi-tiered, database-driven application for the automatic, scheduled download of GPS correctional data, run as a Windows application and configured via a web application. Designed and developed using ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, XML, VB 6.0, Visual Studio 6.0, and MS Access.  • Analyzed functional and business requirements, set operational specifications, created technical specifications, designed and executed test plans, and implemented and maintained code using C#, Visual Basic, Smallworld Magik, SQL, and XML. Programmer/Analyst City of Austin Information Systems Department - Austin, TX January 2002 to December 2002 • Lead Developer in charge of designing, developing, and testing Address Processing tools and UIs for use by City of Austin GIS operators. Created ESRI ArcGIS 8.x software extensions using VB, ADO, PL/SQL, and Oracle for city’s address data. Demo’d UI functionality for review to City Executive of GIS and less-technical managers.  • Key Member of City of Austin’s GIS team for a Neighborhood Zoning Profile application used by over 200 City of Austin personnel. Designed and developed dynamic web report components using Oracle Reports Server, PL/SQL, and ASP.  • Designed and developed for the City of Austin, a subdivision annexation software and reporting application using Visual Basic, ADO, Oracle Reports Server, and Oracle 8i. Created Install Shield executables for client desktop deployments. GIS Programmer/Analyst Cook-Hurlbert, Inc - Austin, TX April 1999 to November 2001 • Interacted directly with clients at Baltimore Gas & Electric to determine business requirements, data mapping for systems integration, software product configuration, define/document process workflow, and created functional and technical specifications documents. Collaborated with consultant in facilitating requirements gathering and process definition meetings at client-site over the course of several day-long sessions with multiple managers, job designers, and field personnel.  • Individually conducted On-Site Product Training Class of CH's software for 12 users at Tucson Electric Power, which involved creating product documentation specific to client's implementation, conducting interactive demos with CH Products and Smallworld GIS, and answering user questions.  • Designed, coded, tested, and debugged object-oriented programs/modifications written in Smallworld Magik (proprietary OO language) and Visual Basic for several different licensed geographic information systems products.  • Key member of team for Bug Tracking and Inventory of over 100 software bugs in the core product. Took lead role in documenting the steps to recreate each, assigning priority level for each, and assigning to development team.  • Individually took the initiative to create, in my spare time, a Glossary of Utility Industry terms and parlance for new employees that became a part of New Employee documentation.  • Reviewed and determined relational database requirements with clients to formulate database solutions, and designed and developed PL/SQL scripts for the creation and maintenance of relational database objects. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Information Systems The University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX December 1996 Skills C# (8 years), VB.NET (6 years), Visual Studio (9 years), Sql Server (8 years), Software Development (10+ years), .NET (9 years), XML (4 years), HTML 5 (1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Python (1 year), Django (1 year), JSON (2 years), Django ORM (1 year), SQL (10+ years), Oracle (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sergio-angulo-2662067/