Senior Full Stack Java Developer Senior Full Stack Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Full Stack Java Developer - TCS A passionate, creative Software Engineer, who is training to become a Full Stack Engineer in either Java or JavaScript Stack with DevOps included. The current technologies I have experience with are Java, Java Spring Framework, Junit, AWS, JavaScript, React.js with JSX, Redux, Node.js, MongoDB, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Sass, Express, Ansible, Docker, Linux Ubuntu and Linux RedHat, Jenkins, Nagios, and Selenium.    LANGUAGES AND TECHNOLOGIES    Front-End Web Development: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React.js, Sass    Server-Side Web Development: Express, Node.js, and Spring Framework    Programming Languages: Java Work Experience Senior Full Stack Java Developer TCS February 2019 to Present CNA (Tata Consultancy Services Client)  • Transforming Monolith Applications into Microservices with small RESTful API end points using Spring Boot, and React.js.  • Participating in a full agile environment.  • Marinating and updating companies code repository using GitLab  • Deploying Microservice to various test environments and into production on Google Cloud using Kubernetes.  • Using Postgras for data store to store data for each microservice.  • Maintain existing applications and making minor improvements to the existing applications.  • Using Jira for keeping for story boarding and keeping track of application requirements and communication amongst the team. Freelance Web Developer May 2016 to Present Web Developer  • Developing a web application for personal and client using Reactjs, Redux, MongoDB, and Node.js.  • Creating RESTful APIs using Node.js with nodeman, and express.  • Testing the RESTful APIs using Postman  • Using MongoDB with Mongoose for creating Database Schemas. Application Developer Analyst Accenture March 2017 to November 2018 BCBS (Accenture Client)  Java Developer Analyst  • Created and maintained RESTful APIs using Java version 1.8.  • Used Maven for building Java Spring Web applications  • Supported SOAP APIs  • Supported Existing Java Enterprise Web Applications  • Developed and maintained queries in MySQL databases.  • Used JUnit for tested Java Web Applications.  • Used Postman for testing RESTful end points.  • Used Github for source control    CalHERES (Accenture Client in Sacramento California)  Java Developer Analyst  • Use Gradle as a build tool for building Enterprise Java Applications using the Spring Framework.  • Used Bitbucket for Source Control for storing Java source code.  • Used Jira for bug tracking, ticketing and resolving issues.  • Developed and maintained queries using Oracle with Toad  • Used STS IDE for developing Java Web Applications.    DCA (Accenture Client in Sacramento California)  DevOps Analyst  • Used PaaS to create environments for Java EE applications to be deployed into OpenShift  • Trained in the basics of DevOps and AWS.  • Created Docker Images from docker files to be deployed in OpenShift Registries.  • Deployed Java Web Applications (WAR and EAR files) to Red Hat OpenShift.  • Used Rational Team Concert to track application defects, schedule deployments, and modify source code for deployments.  • Rewritten Scripts in PowerShell, Linux, and Bash for Jenkins 1.6 CI/CD pipelines for testing and preparation to be deployed to Windows Server 2008. Junior Software Engineer (Java) Capital One July 2016 to December 2016 • Developed RESTful APIs using the Java version 1.7 and Spring Framework version 3.  • Tested the RESTful APIs using Postman.  • Tested Java Web Application using JUnit and Mockito.  • Trained in the basics in developing on the front-end using Angular version 2.  • Trained in the basics of working with AWS/Cloud Infrastructure Junior Software Developer Human Capital Research Corporation January 2015 to September 2015 • Scratch coded SQL queries to implement and export client data  • Reviewed and modified SQL code to ensure proper querying and efficient language  • Used Microsoft SQL Server 2012 for database management  • Made update and changes to the company's website using ASP.NET Web Forms.  • Transformed data from private universities that comes into the company's data warehouse in Access files, .txt files, .xls, into readable data for business analyst to present to their clients using SMSS that would transform data and send it back into the form of .xmls files and convert into pivot tables and transformed again into .ppt files. Education B.S. in Computer Science Northeastern Illinois University December 2014 Links https://github.com/Steven8519