Embedded Software Developer Embedded <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Embedded Software Engineer Taylor, MI Graduated with BS in Computer Science from Wayne State University, Michigan.   • Currently employed at John Deere as an Embedded software Developer   • Previously employed at Siemens as a Support Analyst/ software Developer   • Passionate about Software Engineering/Development.   • Seeking a fulltime opportunity as a Software Developer, iOS Developer, Web Developer or System Analyst.   • Excellent leadership, communication and management skills.   • Dedicated, self-motivated and Hardworking individual looking for opportunities that help enhance my skillset. • Ability to carry out projects on time with precise deliverables.   • Developer of iOS application (MyHealthKeeper) that allows patient to keep track of their medical record  • Willing to relocate anywhere in the United State. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Embedded Software Developer John Deere - Urbandale, IA April 2018 to Present  Responsible for implementing application to help deliver CI bundles  •       Software developer on the MTG (Modular Telematics Gateway) team (C++)  •      Responsible for resolving defect from factory and dealer   •      Member of RRT (Rapid Response Team) for support   •      Responsible for maintaining backlog grooming and sprint planning dashboard (scrum master)  •      Responsible for implementing functionality to meet existing product goal before code freeze and product release (C++)  •      Testing: Implemented Unit test (GTest, C++) and Automation test (Python) Software Engineer/Support Analyst Siemens Healthineers - Ann Arbor, MI May 2017 to May 2018 Software Engineer / Support Analyst  • Responsible for Infrastructure First-level of support  ? Deployed Syngo Dynamics client and server Virtual Machines using Hyper-V for R&D to support Sanity and Agile testing  ? Provided first-level of support for build and unit test infrastructure related issues.  ? Performed Acceptance and Sanity testing for syngo Dynamics build  ? Created archive migration Msi package using WIX tool set  ? Deploy VM in the cloud, such as AWS Instances  ? Implemented lambda function to Start and stop AWS instance on Daily basis  ? Improved the reporting of code coverage by fixing the logic in the C# code iOS Application Developer Client From DMC hospital - Detroit, MI August 2017 to December 2017 • Developed iOS application that allows patient to keep track of their medical record   o ‘MyHealthKeeper’ Application is available at App store   o Database Used: SQLite, MySQL on AWS Linux AMI server   o Security: Data is encrypted using SQLCipher and HTTPS Manager Subway - Farmington Hills, MI May 2007 to December 2015 •Handled and analyzed daily income and expenses.  •Reported weekly sale and inventory data to headquarter.  •Hired new employees and worked with POS system  •Communicated with different customers every day.   •Handled customers complain with taking appropriate steps. Education BS in Computer Science in Computer Science Wayne State University - Detroit, MI Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Less than 1 year), AngularJS (Less than 1 year), API (Less than 1 year), AWS (Less than 1 year), C++ (3 years), C (2 years), Java (2 years), HTML 5 (3 years), CSS3 (3 years), MySQL (2 years), SQL (1 year), Swift (1 year), C# (2 years), Python (1 year), WIX (1 year), Scala (2 years), PHP (2 years), SQLite (1 year), RESTful API (1 year), CSS, Git Additional Information KEY SKILLS  • Programing Languages: C, C++, Java, C#, Python, Scala, PHP, Swift, Perl, WIX, HTML, CSS .Node.js, AngularJS, RESTful API  • Database: SQL, MySQL, SQLite  • Operating System: Windows, Linux (Ubuntu), MacOS  • Cloud Technologies: AWS EC2, S3, Lambda, Linux AMI  • App Development: iOS, Xcode  • Source Control: GitHub, SVN, TFS  • Tools: Visual Studio (2013/15/17), XAMPP, Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Outlook, Wix tool set, phpMyAdmin, Eclipse  • Framework: Object Oriented Programing, Data Structure, Software Development life Cycle, Problem Solving and analysis, TCP/IP Routing Protocols, Cyber Security, Agile Environment, VM System