Lead Principal Software Architect / Lead Senior Software Developer/Project Manager Lead Principal <span class="hl">Software</span> Architect / Lead Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Project Manager Lead Principal Software Architect / Lead Senior Software Developer/Project Manager - Lionbridge Phoenix, AZ Work Experience Lead Principal Software Architect / Lead Senior Software Developer/Project Manager Lionbridge - Boise, ID August 2010 to Present Contract/Remote)  • The following are projects at Lionbridge:  • Microsoft: 2010 - 2019  ? Developed WPF desktop applications and user manuals to train other Senior Software engineers in XAML, C#, PRISM, MEF, and MVVM.  ? Architected and developed a WPF desktop application for a large recruiting company in XAML, PRISM, MVVM, and C#.  ? Architected and developed marketing solutions using Sitecore.  ? Architected and developed mobile friendly websites using Angular 8 and TypeScript.  ? Migrated .NET code from DB2 database to Oracle Database.  ? Architected and developed solutions using .NET and Oracle.  ? Managed Oracle database using Toad.  ? Setup CI/CD pipelines on Azure for development.  ? Wrote manuals and best practices for ASP.NET MVC 4, MVC 5 and Web API.  ? Developed proof of concept .NET Core applications that integrated with Azure.  ? Recommended security solutions for Microsoft's customers.  ? Trained developers on using Azure.  ? Architected and developed proof of concept applications using the Microsoft Bot Framework and integration with Azure Bot Service, AI, and Natural Language using C#.  ? Worked with Bot Framework SDK version 4.  ? Worked with Bot Emulator.  ? Architected solutions using Docker/Kubernetes.  ? Architected and developed solutions using ES JavaScript and CSS 3.  ? Developed database solutions using RedGate SQL Toolbelt.  ? Architected and developed solutions in SharePoint 2016.  ? Developed Proof of Concept applications using SharePoint 2019.  ? Assisted Microsoft in the development of .NET Core using C+  ? Performed DBA duties on MySQL.  ? Helped Microsoft with HIPAA compliancy in MS Azure.  ? Guide and troubleshoot client SDK(Java, C, and Python) and Couchbase server issues.  ? Migrated legacy code and current code to GitHub.  ? Work with development teams to enable migration/decommission/setup of new environments.  ? Assisted end clients in setting up RedHat and Ubuntu Linux servers.  ? Triage production issues relating to Couchbase clusters and restore full functionality with minimum impact.  ? Architected and developed Azure HDInsight solutions utilizing Azure DocumentDB.  ? Assisted Microsoft Research with F# solutions for Hadoop (Spark, Storm, Hive, HBASE).  ? Architected and developed an AIMS cloud solution for Deloitte.  ? Assist Microsoft with Typescript and ECMAScript 6 best practices and usability manuals.  ? Assist Microsoft in the development of Silverlight 5.0.  ? Developed proof of concept applications with Angular 4 and Typescript.  ? Developed 3D applications in Unity3D and C#.  ? Created shaders and conducted training sessions for Unity 3D programs.  ? Developed data visualization using D3 and JavaScript.  ? Developed proof of concept applications using F#, Suave.IO, FAKE, Azure and Visual Studio 2017 Enterprise.  ? Assisted customers in debugging their code (JavaScript, Angular 2, C#, etc.) to work with Azure AD.  ? Architected and developed application to mix medicine for a medical device using Visual Studio 2017 Enterprise, C++, and 3D vector graphics (OpenGL).  ? Developed visualization applications using Three.js and WebGL Chase Bank 2016 to 2019 Architected and developed Android (in Google Play Store), iOS (App Store), Windows Phone 8.1, UWP (Universal Windows) mobile financial app using Visual Studio 2017 Enterprise, Xamarin, MVVM Light, SQLite, and C#. This mobile application allows a user to manage their accounts, make deposits, find ATMs, perform financial transactions.  ? Wrote PowerShell scripts to automate Azure tasks.  ? This Chase mobile app allowed customers to look for the closest ATM based on geofencing. Wolters Kluwer 2016 to 2019 Architected and developed Android, iOS, Windows Phone 8.1, UWP (Universal Windows) app using Xamarin forms, C#, SQLite, MVVM Cross, Visual Studio 2015 Ultimate, and Xamarin Studio. This mobile application helps users enter and track time and expenses. Microsoft Consulting Services (MCS) 2010 to 2019 Developed proof of concept .NET Core applications that integrated with Azure.  ? Architected and developed marketing solutions using Sitecore.  ? Architected and developed a WPF proof of concept application that integrated with Azure using the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) to get an access token and call the Microsoft Graph (using OAuth 2 against the Azure AD version 2.0 endpoint).  ? Architected and developed solutions using Oracle.  ? Architected solutions for customers using IBM DB2.  ? Architected and developed solutions using Microsoft Forefront Identity Manager that integrated with Active Directory and Exchange Server to provide identity synchronization, certificate management, user password resets and user provisioning.  ? Setup CI/CD pipelines on Azure for development.  ? Architected and developed solutions using ES JavaScript and CSS 3.  ? Architected and developed solutions in SharePoint 2016.  ? Developed Proof of Concept applications using SharePoint 2019.  ? Build IAM applications across divisions and business lines.  ? Develop and implement workflows that automate and facilitate access provisioning and de-provisioning.  ? Act as the subject matter expert for IAM tools to assist with technical, operational and strategic access control decisions.  ? Trained developers on using Azure.  ? Designed and built logical workflows based on existing processes.  ? Architected solutions for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) and Docker containers.  ? Deployed, managed, and updated applications on an AKS cluster.  ? Used and deployed application in Microsoft Azure.  ? Recommended security solutions for Microsoft's customers.  ? Implemented Azure ElasticSearch and trained users on using ElasticSearch.  ? Assisted users on Azure Active Directory, Application registrations, and Multi Factor Authentication.  ? Performed penetration testing to improve security.  ? Monitored, analyzed and responded to network incidents and events.  ? Participated in disaster recovery implementation and testing under NIST framework, HIPPA, & HITECH standards.  ? Managed validation and testing of security architecture and design solutions.  ? Produced detailed engineering specifications with recommended vendor technologies.  ? Reviewed and Verify the AMP technical documentation for Azure.  ? Supported partners deploying applications in AMP using ARM templates.  ? Provide technical expertise when designing AMP Azure Applications.  ? Migrated legacy code and current code to GitHub.  ? Debugged REST based APIs.  ? Architected and developed Java J2EE solutions.  ? Developed Angular 1.5 applications.  ? Developed Java apps using Spring 5.  ? Experience with YAML, Bash and PowerShell.  ? Developed solutions using RedGate SQL Toolbelt.  ? Wrote PowerShell scripts to automate Azure tasks.  ? Assisted developers on Azure B2C and B2B.  ? Trained senior developers on using Application Insights in B2C for debugging, tracing, and logging.  ? Developed and deployed Azure Resource Manager (ARM) templates.  ? Developed solutions for end client using Microsoft Graph API and integration with Office 365.  ? Performed DevOps duties on Azure.  ? Worked on Azure Cloud recovery and cost management.  ? Architected solutions using Docker/Kubernetes.  ? Architected and developed SharePoint 2016 solutions for MCS end clients.  ? Assisted developers on using SAML, OAuth2 and OpenID for Azure.  ? Guide and troubleshoot client SDK (Java, C, Python, ) and Couchbase server issues.  ? Work with development teams to enable migration/decommission/setup of new environments.  ? Developed Django/Python web applications using the Google App Engine and then deployed to the Google Compute Engine.  ? Assisted end clients in setting up RedHat and Ubuntu Linux servers.  ? Triage production issues relating to Couchbase clusters and restore full functionality with minimum impact.  ? Architected and developed Azure HDInsight solutions utilizing Azure DocumentDB.  ? Assisted MCS customers in setting up Azure AD registrations.  ? Provided technical support in troubleshooting Active Directory issues.  ? Assisted customers in debugging their code (JavaScript, Angular 4, C#, etc.) to work with Azure AD.  ? Architected and developed solutions for Azure Queue Service.  ? Developed .NET Core applications using C# and Visual Studio 2017 Enterprise.  ? Architected and developed solutions using Angular 9, TypeScript, and Visual Studio 2019. Project Manager 2010 to 2019 Oversee multiple projects across all phases of development.  ? Monitored workflow and make timeline adjustments as needed.  ? Worked as part of an interdisciplinary team to achieve project milestones.  ? Collaborated with development to plan project sprints.  ? Developed status reports, cost estimates, and resource plans.  ? Made vital decisions and drive decision-making across projects.  ? Implemented and maintain development best practices.  ? Managed resource and capacity planning for projects.  ? Supported development and software quality assurance to ensure optimal progress and product stability for end users.  ? Trained team members on development processes.  ? Coordinated with customer to gather requirements and manage expectations.  ? Set and adjusted project milestones. Wells Fargo 2012 to 2014 Architected and developed solutions to host financial applications on the Azure platform.  ? Recommended new technologies to upper management to develop robust application.  ? Review and recommend improvements to existing application architectures.  ? Assist in application design, development, integration, and implementation activities.  ? Created plug-ins for QlikView using WebStorm, D3.js, and JavaScript (ECMAScript 6).  ? Developed data visualizations using D3.js and JavaScript to analyze financial data.  ? Architected and developed solutions using ES JavaScript and CSS 3.  ? Architected and developed a predictive analytics platform using AngularJS Visual Studio 2015, and JavaScript.  ? Developed applications that performed data analysis and data science using Python, Pandas, NumPy and matplotlib  ? Developed highly interactive dashboard using ASP.NET MVC, Bootstrap, and ReactJS.  ? Developed financial website using Python, Django, MySQL, and PyCharm.  ? Responsible for designing and developing complex and highly distributed Azure cloud-based applications using ASP.NET MVC 5, JavaScript (ECMAScript 6), Razor, and C#.  ? Designed and developed RESTful and JSON services.  ? Architected and developed WPF desktop commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) application for Wells Fargo using C#, MVVM, Visual Studio 2015 and SQL Server 2014.  ? Wrote PowerShell scripts to automate Azure tasks.  ? Migrated legacy code and current code to GitHub.  ? Architected and developed ASP.NET MVC 5 financial applications using Angular 4, C#, Entity Framework, Web API, REST, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, LESS, Bootstrap, CSS 3.0, log4Net and Razor.  ? Developed dashboard using ReactJS, Kendo UI, and Visual Studio 2015. DBA TriZetto 2010 to 2014 2010 - 2014  ? Analysed and developed strategies to make enhancements to the Facets Application.  ? Developed Image storage archive with Microsoft SQL server.  ? Developed healthcare website using Python, Django, MySQL, and PyCharm.  ? Increased speed and memory efficiency by implementing code migration to convert python code to C/C++ using CPython.  ? Developed Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning Systems using Python.  ? Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas, and Python.  ? Performed DBA duties on MySQL.  ? Architected and developed solutions using ES JavaScript and CSS 3.  ? Developed data visualizations using D3 and JavaScript.  ? Worked with team members to develop architectural strategies and guidelines.  ? Provide application architectural solutions to meet business requirements.  ? ADFS Administration and SAML 2.0 protocol & Authentication  ? Performed data migrations and backup using RedGate SQL Toolbelt.  ? Automated processes with PowerShell scripts.  ? Installed JIRA on Microsoft Azure.  ? Developed Java apps using Spring 4 and Eclipse.  ? Developed for Azure Connect/Azure AD.  ? Developed SSO, LDAP and AD solutions.  ? Used Cloud Foundry to work with both Azure and AWS.  ? Architected and developed AWS solutions to place QNXT claims processing system into the AWS cloud.  ? Architected and developed BI solutions for TriZetto in the Azure Cloud.  ? Produced ETL design and guidelines to ensure a manageable ETL infrastructure for the BI system.  ? Implementing big data analytics (Hadoop) using Amazon EMR.  ? Collaborated with business analysts on the Facets and QNXT claims processing teams to develop and design the end-to-end system in order to facilitate automatic employer group creation and automatic new member enrollment.  ? Develop single sign on websites using SAML, ADFS, Ping Identity and Active directory.  ? Developed remote monitoring IoT application in the healthcare space.  ? Designed and developed RESTful Web API Services using .NET Core, secured with Azure Active Directory, and deployed to a Docker container.  ? Developed RESTful Web API services in .NET that authenticated users and consumed other services with Azure AD and OAuth 2.  ? Implemented Azure Multi-factor authentication.  ? Architected, designed and implemented complex identity management solutions utilizing ADFS, Azure AD Connect, and Microsoft Identity Manager.  ? Architected and implemented private infrastructure solution using Microsoft Azure.  ? Provide guidance to project teams in all phases of SDLC.  ? Designed data visualization to present current impact and growth using PyCharm, Python, Anaconda, Django, Google App Engine, Google Web Toolkit (GWT) , Google App Engine and Google Compute Engine.  ? Developed data mining and data analytics in Python and R using PyCharm. Architect / Senior Software Developer Hewlett Packard - Fort Collins, CO November 2009 to August 2010 Contract/Remote)    ? Architected and developed WPF remote desktop application that integrated with Microsoft Office Communicator 2007.    ? Developed webcam/microphone application using Silverlight 4.0 beta, C# 4.0 beta, and Visual Studio 2010 RC.    ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Python, Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.    ? Architected and developed Windows Azure cloud solution for storage.    ? Developed Windows Phone 7 applications using Silverlight. Software Architect Western Digital - Lake Forest, CA November 2008 to November 2009 Contract)    ? Developed custom installation software to install hard drives using C++ (MFC).  ? Created GUI interface using C++ (MFC), Adobe Photoshop, Flex, and Flash.  ? Developed software to do backup, restore, and view hard drive information using C#, .NET Framework 3.5, Visual Studio 2008, WPF, PRISM and Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI).  ? Wrote technical specs and user manual for the installation software. Sr. Software Developer Universal Studios - Orlando, FL August 2008 to November 2008 Contract)    ? Architected and developed ticketing system using Visual Studio 2008, C#, and ASP.NET 3.5.  ? Integrated QAS address and name verification system into Universal Studios' website.  ? Developed website using Python and Django.  ? Developed the Universal Studios e-commerce website.  ? Customized user interface using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator. Senior Software Developer Northrop Grumman - Redondo Beach, CA December 2007 to August 2008 Contract)    ? Architected and developed data visualization applications using Microsoft's Silverlight, WCF, and WPF technologies.  ? Developed charts, graphs, slideshows, and videos with Silverlight in Microsoft Expression Studio, C#, .NET Framework 3.5 and Visual Studio 2008.  ? Created 3D virtual worlds in WPF.  ? Migrated from Adobe Flash/Flex to Microsoft Silverlight.  ? Informed Microsoft of the lack of streaming video capability in the Silverlight platform which is available to the Adobe platform and Microsoft added Media Services into IIS 7 with Silverlight 3.0 for smooth streaming of videos.  ? Customized user interface using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator. Software Architect Health Savings Technology - Newport Beach, CA January 2006 to December 2007 Contract)    ? Architected and developed web applications using Visual Studio.NET, ASP.NET, .NET Framework 3.0, C#, Ajax, JavaScript, XSLT, XML, XPATH, CSS, XHTML, DHTML, SSIS, MS SQL Server 2005, InterSystems Cache Database.  ? Architected and developed Triple Encryption software.  ? Developed Web Services applications using Visual Studio.NET.  ? Developed applications that performed debit and credit card transactions.  ? Created reports using Crystal Reports.  ? Developed Xcelsius UI applications.  ? Developed and migrated company website from Cache Server Pages (csp) to .NET Platform.  ? Utilized third party and custom controls to implement Ajax functionality on company website.  ? Developed Excel VBA scripts to automate information processing.  ? Developed WPF and Silverlight (WPF/E) apps using Microsoft Expression Blend and Visual Studio Orcas beta1.  ? Utilized XAM 3D and Aurora XAML Designer to design GUI interface  ? Designed and developed web services using Microsoft Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  ? Developed a collaboration portal utilizing SharePoint 2007. It included integration with legacy systems and automating business procedures alleviating the administrative burden of many of the current business processes and ensuring the security and quality of the data.  ? Developed web applications using Telerik controls. Software Architect/Team Lead PacifiCare - Cypress, CA August 2005 to January 2006 Contract)    ? Designed and maintained company website using Visual Studio.NET, ASP.NET 2.0, C#.NET, Ajax, XSLT, XML, XPATH, CSS, XHTML, MS SQL Server 2005, Oracle, PL/SQL, T-SQL.  ? Developed WinForms and Web Forms programs on Citrix platform using Visual Studio.NET, JavaScript, ASP.NET, and C#.NET.  ? Installed, setup and maintained Team Foundation Server.  ? Architected and developed WinForms badge management software application in Visual C#.NET.  ? Worked in a SCRUM and Agile environment.  ? Developed SharePoint MOSS applications.  ? Implemented and configured Microsoft SharePoint Portal 2003, Windows SharePoint Services and MS SQL Server 2005.  ? Developed health care website using Python and Django. Sr. Software Engineer/Team Lead Los Angeles Housing Department - Los Angeles, CA January 2005 to August 2005 Contract)    ? Designed and maintained LAHD website using Visual Studio.NET, Ajax, XSLT, XML, XPATH, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, T-SQL, and VB.NET.  ? Performed DBA duties on MS SQL Server 2005 and Oracle databases.  ? Developed WinForms database-driven application to track clients' information.  ? Created reports using Crystal Reports.  ? Maintained and developed stored procedures in MS SQL Server 2005 environment.  ? Developed code using Microsoft Visual SourceSafe in a team development environment. Sr. Software Engineer (Perm) Incorporating You Inc - Anaheim, CA February 2003 to January 2005 Developed lead tracking and management Web Forms application using Visual Studio.NET, Visual C#, JavaScript, T-SQL, and MS SQL 2000 database.  ? Developed multimedia applications using Adobe ActionScript.  ? Developed and maintained CRM system using C#, Visual Studio.NET, and MS SQL 2000.  ? Performed search engine optimization (SEO) techniques to assist the company's website in being higher ranked on major search engines such as Google and Yahoo.  ? GUI design and implementation utilizing Visual Studio.NET.  ? Developed web applications using Dreamweaver and Adobe Flash.  ? Developed custom web applications integrating into suite of tools which were displayed as a digital dashboard to the end user using SharePoint 2003 technologies. This was an all-encompassing system streamlining all business process across the division.  ? Information worker project to integrate back office business systems with Microsoft Office applications using Information Bridge Framework (IBF). Software Engineer (Perm/Telecommute) Surfside Internet - Huntington Beach, CA December 2001 to February 2003 Developed website using XSLT, XML, AJAX, XPATH, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and VBScript to take customers' orders.  ? Developed zip-code search webpage using ASP.NET (VB.NET).  ? Developed software utilizing Visual Studio.NET (C#.NET) and MS SQL 2000 to collect and store customer information.  ? MS SQL 2000 management.  ? Maintained IIS Server and online help system.  ? Maintained and updated fax-back phone system.  ? Developed web applications using Dreamweaver and Adobe Flash. Lead Software Engineer / Software Development Manager (Perm) Digital Solutions Multimedia Concepts Inc - Beltsville, MD September 1994 to November 2001 Developed and maintained webpages (using Java, CSS, JavaScript, Flash, Dreamweaver, Perl, and PHP) for Paramount's Kings Dominion (http://www.kingsdominion.com).  ? Developed applications using LAMP.  ? Developed secure satellite imagery application using Java, Spring, and J2EE.  ? Setup and maintained Linux and Apache Server.  ? Developed applications for AS400 in PHP.  ? Developed applications in Python.  ? Developed applications that accessed the Oracle Database and utilized PL/SQL.  ? Oracle Database PL/SQL management.  ? Developed stored procedures for IBM DB2.  ? Developed CGI applications for the National Security Administration.  ? Developed XML-based data entry forms using InfoPath.  ? Responsible for the production of cutting-edge technology such as the VDF Logger, Virage ODBC Plug-In, and Web Gateway using Visual Studio and C++.  ? Developed multimedia applications using Adobe ActionScript 1.0.  ? Designed 3D models and animation for the Discovery Channel and Disney.  ? Developed software applications written in C++ for handheld devices used at major theme parks and Windows applications associated with RealPlayer.  ? Developed OCX Components using Visual Basic.  ? Provided leadership and guidance to coach, motivate, and lead team members to their optimum performance levels and career development.  ? Worked together with the Product Owner to plan and execute projects, ensure that team have appropriate product and technical specifications, direction and resources to deliver products effectively by establishing realistic estimates for timelines while ensuring that projects remain on target to meet deadlines.  ? Worked closely with the Product Owner, Sales, and Business Analysts, for understanding the system's functional and non-functional requirements.  ? Collaborated with the Product Management in defining the product vision. Computer/Mathematics Tutor September 1989 to July 1993 Assisted students in C++ programming and Calculus courses.  Helped to motivate students in learning course materials.  Encouraged students to develop good study habits.  System Administration of Unix and VAX servers.  Helped students in debugging programs written in C++ and Assembly.  Developed software applications written in C++ used in the computer lab.  Provided phone technical support. UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND BALTIMORE COUNTY - Baltimore, MD 1989 to 1993 Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science University of Maryland Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD Additional Information A dedicated and enthusiastic computer scientist experienced in managing and programming on various platforms and operating systems. A flexible, highly organized individual with the proven ability to adapt and react quickly in a high pressure, fast-paced environment. Excellent communication and presentation skills with demonstrated success as a team player and with the commitment and discipline to work well independently. Highly proficient on Microsoft .NET technologies C# and ASP.NET MVP.    ARCHITECTING  • Performed reviews and a key contributor for design and code inspections.  • Researched on emerging software development products, languages, and standards in support of procurement and development efforts.  • Knowledge of regulatory compliance (PCI-DSS and HIPAA).  • Extensive experience with RESTful APIs.  • Extensive experience with the MVC Framework.  • Detailed knowledge of waterfall and Agile design methodologies  • Created design documentation, roadmaps, and coding standards.  • Trained and provided guidance to junior software development staff.  • Worked on the development of dashboard reports for the Key Performance Indicators for top management.  • Gathered statistics, prepared, and wrote reports on the status of the programming process for discussion with management and team members.  • Developed software technology architecture platforms and help to standardized across all global business segments.  • Architected platform, systems and cloud (Azure and AWS) environments.  • Architected software using REST API, WCF, ASMX (SOAP), and Web API.  • Architected event distributed messaging systems.    PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES and TECHNOLOGIES    C, C++, C# (1.0-7.0), Visual C++.NET, Visual Basic.NET, Visual C#.Net, F#, Java, J2EE, Android, iOS, ADO.NET, XML, Xamarin, Web Services, .NET Remoting, Design Patterns, UML, RUP, LINQ, LINQ to SQL, Entity Framework, PLINQ, ASP.NET (1.0-5.0), ASP.NET Core, WCF, WPF, WPF/E (SilverLight), PRISM, Caliburn, MEF, UNITY (Dependency Injection (DI) (aka. IoC) frameworks), XAML, MVVM, ASP.NET MVC (1.0 - 5.0), DevForce, Task Parallel Library, Visual Studio Unit Testing Framework, NUnit, RhinoMocks ,WSDL, Atlas, Ajax, XSLT, XML, XPATH, CSS, JSP, Assembly Language , Visual C++, Visual Basic 6.0, SMIL, MFC, VBA, Microsoft .NET technology, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, ASP, CGI, Perl, PHP, Firebug, Fiddler, R, Python, Django, CodeIgniter, LAMP, VBScript, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, LESS,Typescript, Microsoft Azure, ActiveX, DOM, COM, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL ,Adobe ActionScript, Adobe Flash, Adobe Flex, JSON, OOP, OOD, Functional Programming, XSD, Web 2.0, Websharper, Suave.IO, Fable, Elmish, Safe Stack, Giraffe, Fake, NumPy, Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib, Anaconda, and Plotly.    NETWORKING  AS400, TCP/IP, VAX VMS, SGI Irix OS, SCO Unix, Linux, Apache, Client/Server architecture, Windows 95/98//NT/ XP/2000/2003, Server 2008, Server 2012 R2, Server 2016. Windows Vista, Mac OS, IIS, Tomcat, Citrix, SOA, Network protocol programming - IP, VOIP, SS7, FTP.    DATABASE  MS SQL 2000, MS SQL 2005, MS SQL 2008, MS SQL 2012, MS SQL 2014, Oracle, IBM DB2, Intersystem Cache, Informix, MySQL, MongoDB, MS Access.    • Over 20 years compound experience in IT, 10 years solid SQL Server database administration & development experience with DBA duties.  • Hands on Experience in installing, configuring, managing, monitoring and troubleshooting SQL Server 2005.  • Experience in developing and monitoring SSIS Packages and DTS.  • Extensive experience with SQL Server and T-SQL in constructing triggers, tables, user functions, views, indexes, user profiles, relational database models, data dictionaries, and data integrity.  • Solid experience and outstanding knowledge of high availability SQL Server solutions, including Log shipping, Replication and SQL Server clustering.  • Extensive experience with Monitor, tune and analyze database performance and allocate server resources to achieve optimum database performance.  • Working Experience in designing, implementing, maintaining, and documenting complex database applications, and data warehouse in financial environments  • Hands on experience and outstanding knowledge of high availability SQL Server solutions, including replication and SQL Server clustering.  • Extensive experience in design techniques, ETL processes, relational database theory, N-Tier development.  • Excellent report creation skills using Microsoft Reporting Services.  • Extensive experience Crystal Report, and Crystal Analysis.    APPLICATIONS  Visual Studio.NET 2003, Visual Studio 2005, Visual Studio 2008, Visual Studio 2010, Visual Studio 2012, Visual Studio 2013, Visual Studio 2015, Visual Studio 2017, Visual Studio Tools for Office (VSTO), SQL Server 7, SQL Server 2000, SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2014,Team Foundation Server, JIRA, Subversion (TortoiseSVN), GitHub, XAM 3D, Aurora XAML Designer, Microsoft Ajax, Microsoft Enterprise Library, ReSharper, Code Rush, MVVM Light Toolkit, WebSharper, Fiddler, Firebug, Grunt, Bower, Gulp, EmberJS, Handlebars, NodeJS, npm, LINQPad, Web Matrix, Visual Web Developer 2005, CodeSmith, DevExpress , Telerik, ComponentOne, Infragistics, Syncfusion, DevExpress, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Fireworks, Adobe After Effects, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Poser, Adobe Flash Builder 4, MS Office, vi, jed, emacs, DZSoft Perl Editor, DZSoft PHP Editor, PyCharm, CodeCharge Studio, Ironspeed Designer, IdeaBlade DevForce 2010, Redgate SQL Toolbelt (SQL Prompt, SQL BackUp Pro, SQL Source Control, SQL Data Compare Pro, DLM Dashboard, SQL Doc, SQL Monitor, SQL Test, and SQL Data Generator), Crystal Reports, Active Reports, MS Project, Visio, MS SharePoint 2003/2007/2010, InstallShield, NUnit, VSNUnit, Visual Studio Orcas, WSE 2.0, WSE 3.0, Microsoft Expression Suite, WebStorm, Xamarin Studio, CAB, XCOPY, MSI, Microsoft Smart Client Software Factory, nHibernate, NAnt, Xcelsius, Excel, QlikView, MicroStrategy, QAS address and name verification, SCRUM, Agile.