Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - IBM Austin, TX Work Experience Software Engineer IBM - Austin, TX March 2017 to Present SaaS Business Application Team  ? Maintained ETL code for an internal solution that delivered CHI (Consumer Health Index) scores and data  to sales and account managers. Tools used are python, kubernetes, airflow, and various IBM Cloud  services. Group was fully remote and located in Cognitive Services.  ? Investigated how to transition how the team would transition from a DB2 database to a Postgres instance  on IBM Cloud.  ? Analyzed data quality and spareness from internal data feeds    Cloud Brokerage Services Team  ? Developed code for a cost-benefit analysis tool for IBM Cloud Brokerage Services. Solution uses a microservice architecture leveraging Python, Docker, Kubernetes, Celery, PySpark, Java, RabbitMQ,  Flyway, and MariaDB.  ? Developed scripts to automate release tagging on application git repos.  ? System owner for a microservice repo that was responsible for data processing. As owner, I advocated  for tickets to reduce technical debt and compiled system reports on test coverage and overall status of the component. Software Developer Visible Health - Austin, TX September 2014 to February 2017 Developed code for a web enterprise solution that catalogs medical tests and facilitates the sharing of information between medical labs and insurance companies. Project's technology stack consists of Java,  Hibernate, Spring (Core and Data), Vaadin, Git repositories, Docker, Oracle.  ? Worked on infrastructure and model tickets to address changing business rules and requirements.  ? Used Vaadin framework and CSS to develop new functionality and address bug tickets with our frontend.  ? Improved our project's test coverage by creating JUnit and Selenium tests.  ? Reviewed code and functionally tested story tickets and software features.  ? Evaluated impact of framework upgrades (such as Vaadin) on our application and analyzed various pom  dependencies. Operations Research Analyst Reddwerks - Austin, TX March 2011 to February 2014 Modeling Experience:  ? Developed simulations of distribution center activities (e.g. split case picking and truck loading) using  Java to study and improve operations.  ? Estimated model parameters and tested assumptions by analyzing warehouse datasets (e.g. order, zoning, and pick transaction data) and using regression and exploratory techniques. Analysis was done  primarily using MS Excel, SQL, and R.  ? Developed algorithms to dynamically assign and batch work assignments to selectors in a picking  environment.  Development Experience:  ? Tested and prototyped assignment algorithms in a warehouse simulation, and converted algorithms to production code for a product release.  ? Validated the correctness of OR algorithms in production code by creating JUnit test cases.  ? Refactored many parts of a warehouse simulation's codebase to reduce technical debt and to write  results using JDBC.  ? Supported deployment of production code at distribution centers by: improving algorithm performance  based on analysis of production data and training warehouse employees on updated system. Analyst Altarum Institute - San Antonio, TX June 2007 to February 2011 Developed report generating programs on a UNIX system using SAS. The reporting system was driven  by health survey data and was responsible for supplying monthly reports.  ? Answered client research questions by analyzing survey data in SAS for ad-hoc data reports.  ? Developed VB Access scripts to support analysis of various health datasets such as drug lab data, medical audit record data, and genetic sequence data. Datasets were stored in SAS datasets or MS  Access databases.  ? Analyzed data to assist in the statistical modeling and study of how an upcoming military hospital  closures/realignments (BRAC) would impact military budget and the affected patient population.  ? Automated report building in MS Excel using C#, SAS, and Perl. Education Masters of Science in Engineering in Operations Research University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX May 2007 Masters in Report Trinity University - San Antonio, TX May 2005 Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Algorithm, Docker, Git, Python, Flask, Pandas, Data analysis, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Data mining, Junit, Sas, Apache, Frameworks, Linux Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/domingo-lara-5086b89