Sr Developer Sr <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Developer - FINRA Tampa, FL Work Experience Sr Developer FINRA March 2018 to Present US financial industry regulatory authority.  Added features, fixed bugs, provided 3rd line support to data intake platform based on REST API, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, AWS and Elastic Search. Migrated file attachments from BLOB to AWS S3 and validated with scalable tool running in AWS EMR and Spark. Fixed code to switch from Oracle to PostgreSQL RDS. Deployed to EC2 with Jenkins pipelines and Puppet. Machine Learning Creatheaton - team won 2nd place in a category. Sr Application Designer Teranet August 2016 to February 2018 Province of Ontario minor offense payment system.  Upgraded backend for paytickets.ca - payments and refunds, generating PDF reports, municipality profile management. Migration from Oracle to PostgreSQL including stored procedure from PL/SQL to PgSQL, changed table data types and Java JDBC calls. Migration from Weblogic to JBoss including deployment descriptors and Maven build, EJB3, JPA 2.0. Implemented REST API based on JBoss RESTEasy to supporting Angular UI. Migration of batch jobs for billing reconciliation, refunds, vendor and finance reports in spread sheet format. Continuous support of Teranet internal billing framework, troubleshooting, performance improvements. Developer Dell November 2013 to June 2016 Credit decision application - Experian (experian.com) Power Curve on Demand credit approval and appropriation.  Maintained legacy code of Java, Struts, Hibernate, JavaScript and MySQL. Resolved issues and production problems working closely with clients. Worked on old UI based on HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery. Updated business logic of legacy Struts 1, FreeMarker template, Hibernate mapping and MySQL data. Resolved issues with data loading from csv files and multiple user working with same credit application. Worked on SOAP communication issues with Equifax and TransUnion. Fixed communication problems with credit information providers through Web Services. Continuous integration with Jenkins and Git. Deployed on JBoss server with using Linux shell scripting.  - Dell Software Group licensing external and internal applications.  Developed application for License Trial management using Bootstrap, JQuery Datatables, JSON, NTLM authentication, Eh Cache, Java Mail, and PL/SQL. Developed application for Foglight sales reporting with Bootstrap, JQuery, Apache, POI Excel, JDBC. Transformed 24 applications from Ant to Maven build and set up team repository (Artifactory). Moved 2 Swing applications from proprietary Deployment Directory to Java Web Start. Added Chinese and Japanese language support to end user license application with Struts 1. Moved 6 Web Service application from Axis 2 to JAX-WS (SOAP). Made small changes and features in Apex applications and applications based on ASP, C#, SQL Server. Made UI changes and browser compatibility fixes with HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery. Continuous integration with SVN, deployment on Linux Tomcat server, shell scripting Software Developer Research in Motion March 2011 to November 2013 Development and maintenance of infrastructure for BlackBerry device provisioning -high volume real-time concurrent applications tracking BlackBerry devices providers and services.  Decommissioned application for legacy MOBiTEX and DataTAC devices. Developing functionality to support LTE, BlackBerry Wallet projects and Blackberry 10. Investigated production incidents and fixed defects found during QA process. Developed tool for data discrepancy synchronization in 3 regional databases. Participated in Oracle to Cassandra migration and introduction of VMs. Migrated BlackBerry Provisioning JPA from EclipseLink to Hibernate. Created and updated Junit and Mochito tests for all application changes. Followed FindBugs, Emma and Cobertura in Jenkins to check JUnit completeness and comprehensive coverage. Worked on Servlets, JSP, Spring, EJB 2.1 and 3, JPA with Hibernate and EclipseLink, Rest and SOAP web services, PL/SQL, Jython scripting, Weblogic, JBoss, Jetty, Oracle, Cassandra, Maven, Ant and shell scripting. Made UI changes and browser compatibility fixes with HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery Marketing Ext November 2010 to March 2011 Developer  Startup browser bookmarks management application.  Finalized GWT interface for desktop version. Created clean UI for existing BlackBerry and Nokia Symbian mobile applications with BlackBerry Java API and SWT. Developer Bam Strategy May 2009 to April 2010 Developed and updated web sites presenting Procter and Gamble and similar products. Worked on Oracle and MySQL DB design, Hibernate mapping, JSP pages, custom tags. Maintained web applications based on PHP, ASP, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS. Developer Novacom May 2008 to March 2009 Offshore software development of CRM system based on Oracle Portal and Oracle Application Server.  Worked on new features with Java Portlet API and PL/SQL, Struts and JDBC. Developer September 2005 to May 2008 Offshore software development of sales automation applications. Made changes and improvements according to the client requirements, updated Oracle schema. Worked on project migration to Spring and Hibernate, edited JSP pages, JavaScript and CSS. Education Certificate in Accounting I University of Toronto 2019 Certificate in Management Accounting University of Toronto 2018 Certificate in Financial Analysis & Investment Management University of Toronto 2018 Certificate in Financial Analysis University of Toronto 2017 Certificate in Financial Trading and Option Strategies University of Toronto 2016 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Belarus Technical University 2005