Salesforce Developer/Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Administrator Salesforce Developer/Administrator - Comcast Atlanta, GA • Having 10+ years of experience as an IT professional, committed to maintain cutting edge technical skills and up-to-date industry knowledge including 5+ years of experience as a Salesforce CRM Administrator, Developer and Consultant.  • Experience in SFDC development using the APEX classes, Triggers, Components, Reports, Force.com IDE, Eclipse with SOQL, SOSL and Force.com plug-in, Workflow Issues, restart workflows, reset data fields, test and fix the validation rules.  • Created Custom Controllers to make external web service callouts, validate and insert data.  • Created Visualforce pages which identified a region to be updated to enforce partial page refreshes and display the status of Ajax requests to display different values depending on whether it is in progress or completed  • Used Visualforce in development mode to change the behavior and appearance of Visualforce components.  • Used Tabular, Summary and Matrix reports to create Standard reports and Custom reports.  • Created Dashboards and Dashboard Components and implemented multiple levels of Dashboards and scheduled Dashboard refresh.  • Designed and modified Approval processes and created Approval steps which used email alerts and field updates  • Effective employment of Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard and Data Manipulation Language for data migration and management in bulk.  • Used Visualforce Templates and Placeholders to encapsulate page elements to be reused across several Visualforce pages.  • Developed and worked on different Salesforce.com environments such as sandbox and production environments.  • Designed Validation Rules along with Roll-Up Summary Fields to maintain data quantity and data consistency.  • Designed and modified Approval processes and created Approval steps which used email alerts and field updates.  • Work well alone and as part of a team with excellent troubleshooting mechanisms and highly adaptable to different work environments.  • Proficiency in Object Oriented Languages like C++, Java, J2EE, JSP and other Java technologies.  • Experience in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, WSDL, and SOAP Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Administrator Comcast - Philadelphia, PA October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the applications to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Performed the role of Salesforce.com Developer in the organization.  • Interacted with various business team members to gather and documented the requirements.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Closely worked with SalesForce.com teammates while implementing the solutions for the requirements.  • Developed several Triggers, Apex classes and Visual force pages as part of the application development.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Opportunities.  • Customized the Dashboards to track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Designed, Implemented and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components to suit to the needs of the application.  • Created Custom Objects, defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects, and created junction objects to establish many-to-many relationship among objects.  • Created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements  • Customized tabs for different business users groups and business centers.  • Created the workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation, alerts and custom coaching plans.  • Experienced in the use of Data Loader and scheduling timely data backup operations using Apex scheduler.  • Performed the role of support engineer for the internal users, helped them in getting used to the application, generated reports, and saved them for further access to the users.  • Worked on integration of Salesforce CRM and the other systems like Tellus, Marketo and FinancialForce.  • Customized the entire Salesforce.com applications to incorporate the business requirements, which involved creating Web Forms and processing the data in SFDC with the extensive usage of Web services API.  • Installed and maintained AppExchange apps such as Experian QAS, Smart sheet and Zuora.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help of salesforce.com support.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visual Force , Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader, SF Explorer and Eclipse IDE Plug-in, AppExchange apps, Flows, SOAP and REST API. Sfdc Developer/Admin American Express - New York, NY September 2015 to October 2017 American Express is the world's premier service company, and the largest credit card issuer by purchase volume. This project is integration of Salesforce with Angular js. Worked on both SFDC standard and custom objects, fields, relationships, Triggers, Workflows    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce.com implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements.  • Integrated Salesforce with Angular.Js for Onboarding Application.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Developed Assignment rules, Escalation rules to enable proper routing of cases to the case team members.  • Designed junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Pick list, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, Sharing rules and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional need i.e. Sweep & Match, Custom Member Search, and Data Synchronization by web services integration.  • Created various Standard and Custom Reports / Dashboards (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce.com as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles.  • Provided post-implementation support to assist end users in creating reports, dashboards and certain Administration tasks including creating and maintaining user profiles and privileges.  • Single-Sign On (SSO) integration - Implement Single-Sign On (SSO) for browser based logins to Salesforce  • Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information on the profile users.  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to provide shared access among different users.  • Involved in the Data Transformation and Data Cleansing activities while transferring the data from the external system into salesforce.com using Apex Data Loader 20.0.  • Created test scenarios on Sandbox environment, created packages and moved it between Sandboxes and Production environments to place final implementations.  • Worked on doing making minor enhancements to SFDC application required by business users from time to time.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, APEX Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, HTML, Java Script, Web Services, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in SFDC Developer Highmark, Pittsburg, PA August 2013 to September 2015 The project involved deploying an order management application for more than 700 employees, using SFDC. This application is enhanced by the SFDC AppExchange system with advanced reporting and analytics facilitating Crystals Reports. This custom Force.com application lets the organization integrate, track and compare the data originally entered in client system. Worked on both SFDC standard and custom objects, fields, relationships, Triggers, Workflows and Analytics, to create reports for its daily, weekly, quarterly and yearly sales reports and creating dashboards for tracking each individual milestone.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented SFDC CRM to deliver various reports in departments of Sales, Administration and Marketing etc.  • Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements  • Created custom objects, Visual Force pages, triggers, validation rules to help track internal help desk cases, customize campaign budgeting and lead qualification  • Created custom controllers implementing complex code for retrieval from Salesforce to VF pages.  • Wrote SOQL and SOSL statements within custom controllers, extensions and triggers.  • Customizing the flex UI to show real time data consuming Sales force API.  • Used SalesForce.com Ajax Toolkit to make asynchronous calls to the SFDC data store for optimizing data retrieval speeds.  • Created mash-ups to include data from many external end-points such as including financial information from 3rd parties in the customer's profile (Accounts) using WSDL and XML Stream Reader.  • Successfully customized SFDC interface Responsible for performing administrative functions in Salesforce CRM such as create/modify pick-lists and lookup fields.  • Created detailed data mapping document for integrating various systems with Salesforce.com.  • Complete the Application modification functionality and the Toolbar modification functionality of the application as separate Flex Modules and integrated them onto one composite application.  • Created various summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and setup report folders to authenticate users based on their profiles with permissions.  • Implemented complex approval processes to ensure proper authorization in the high-stakes environment of capital management.  • Managed users, hierarchical roles, profiles, security controls and territory management.  • Created and deployed complex workflow rules according to the business requirements.  • Developed complex reports and dashboards using HTML, PDF, Apex, Visual force page and mail merge.  Environment: Eclipse IDE, Salesforce.com, Force.com Sandbox, S-Controls, Import Wizard, Apex, XML, JavaScript, Web Services API, Controllers, Sharing Rules, Visual Force Pages, Workflows, Email Updates. Salesforce Administrator/ Developer Alexion - New Haven, CT July 2011 to August 2013 Building SFDC application that facilitates Organization Users to view their customers in a unified way and generate customized user Information and customer reports accordingly. The project also involved data migration from three legacy systems to Salesforce. Without a single unified database, it was not possible to track and maintain interactions with customers. The goal of the project was also to enable global sales facilitate collaboration and manage sales on-demand    Responsibilities:  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visualforce Pages and Controllers as a Salesforce consultant.  • Administered, configured, maintained Salesforce.com application user profiles, roles, assigning Permissions, generating security tokens, validation Rule, upgrade installation.  • Created and deployed Several Reports using salesforce.com platform.  • Provide training to end users, updated and modified Fields, Objects, Page Layouts  • Developed APEX Classes, Controller Classes and APEX Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Analyzed and evaluated complex business requirements and recommended solutions.  • Developed and deployed workflows and approval processes for opportunities and products/ assets management.  • Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Involved in fallout analysis and fixing the issues.  • Worked with Data loader for loading the attachments into salesforce.com, related to objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, and Activities.  • Involved in Data mapping specifications to create and execute detailed system test plans. The data mapping specifies what data will be extracted from an internal data warehouse, transformed and sent to salesforce.com entity.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  • Integrated the web services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the home grown applications by using the home grown web services.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Interacted with the Salesforce.com premium tech support team on a regular basis.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, VisualForce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, S-Controls, HTML, Java Script, Apex Triggers, Web Services, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer/Administrator Toyota Motor Services - New York, NY June 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked as enhancement developer and team member, performed the roles of Working Developer and Administrator in the organization  • Actively involved with Business analysts, other developers, involved in enhancement of business modules using force.com IDE, APEX classes, Triggers, Test Methods and writing SOQL queries.  • Active participation in Project Management activities-Allocation of tasks, communicating project status to all the stakeholders in a timely manner, tracking of project progression status, team management, knowledge transfer, Building appropriate traceability matrix thru delivery stages, Cost-benefit estimation and evaluation and participate in client facing meetings.  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and user requirements, designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Work.com (SFDC)  • Implemented Apex Data loader "Command Line Interface to automate the data loading process for the sand box refresh activity.  • Worked on various sales force objects like Accounts, Opportunities, Products and Reports.  • Worked on salesforce communities to interlink sales team directly with channel partners.  • Designed and deployed custom websites and also integrated mobiles to the web through the help of sites.com.  • Designed various Webpages in Visual Force for customers to select a variety of services offered by the org and integrate them with the pricing team.  • Designed, and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Maintaining test coverage for all the classes and triggers and supporting deployment activities.  • Worked on various Work.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Opportunities, Products, Opportunity Line Items, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  • Designed, and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects  • Used Data Loader for insert, update and bulk import or export of data from Work.com S-Objects Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Pervasive Data Integrator, Windows XP. Software Engineer First Republic Bank - San Francisco, CA May 2007 to June 2009 This is the development of e-Learning Portal. The goal is to simplify the user experience and information access, in support of the existing goal of providing online training for the student community.    Responsibilities:  • Presented designs and concepts to Clients and the Management for review  • Performed the validation and testing of the completed websites.  • Responsible for web hosting and the installation of e-mails and forms  • Developed Message Driven Bean components in Websphere MQ Series to manage the backend transactions and e-mailing (using JMS and IMAP)  • Developed beans for business logic and utility packs mapping database entities.  • Involved in analysis, design, development and maintenance  • Developed Session/Entity Beans and deployed on Web sphere Application Server.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Configured deployment descriptor specifying data environment  • Documented, prepared help files, user guide and trained end users. Involved in Testing the Application according to test cases. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE (9 years), APEX (9 years), HTML (8 years), WEB SERVICES (7 years), FORCE.COM (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Salesforce Technologies  Apex Language, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force (Pages, Components and Controllers), Apex Data Loader,  S-Controls, Apex Web Services, Force.com Apex Explorer, AJAX, Dashboards, Reports, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects, Eclipse with Force.com Plug-in, Force.com IDE.    Programming Languages VB Scripting, Net, C, C++, Share Point, SQL, Apex  Web Technologies Perl, XML, HTML, JavaScript, JSP  Databases MS SQL Server, MS Access, Oracle Applications.  Operating Systems MS Windows, UNIX , Mac OS-9/10  Packages MS Office, MS Outlook, MS Access.  Automating Packages WinRunner, Load Runner, QTP  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, RUP.  Data Management and Tools Toad, Informatica, Eclipse, SQL Enterprise Manager, SQL Query Analyzer, ER-Win, MS Visio, Power Designer, Putty and Edit Plus