NRM Technical Manager NRM Technical Manager NRM Technical Manager - PET SUPPLIES PLUS Spring Hill, FL Database architect and SQL Server developer as well as full stack development abilities including Azure Platform, JavaScript, .NET, Visual Studio, Team Foundation Services and Angular/Vue. I thrive in the data architecture role, with T-SQL development. I enjoy analyzing business needs and improving, solving or streamlining business issues utilizing data. Work Experience NRM Technical Manager PET SUPPLIES PLUS - Livonia, MI January 2017 to Present Manage the Customer Marketing database known internally as Neighbor Relationship Manager (NRM).  ? Architect redesign to allow for greater scalability, enhancements, and tie in to eCommerce projects.  ? Architect automation using Azure Data Factory for movement of data to Azure Data Warehouse.  ? Design and implement automation for data movement within and without the organization.  ? Architect and implement Responsys solution and integration for the next generation ESP system.  ? Implement multiple data cleansing practices, as well as new acquisition procedures.  ? Manage the data scientists and the predictive learning initiatives used in the marketing campaigns.  ? Manage the PowerBI specialists with regards to Marketing and company wide reporting. Senior Software Engineer SERVANT SYSTEMS - Chelsea, MI August 2014 to January 2017 Provide SQL Server training to development and analyst staff.  ? Introduce, train and implement Agile practices utilizing Scrum.  ? Architect an SPA application utilizing Angular 1.5 with WebAPI 2.0 Rest services to support client needs.  ? Architect, develop and maintain Azure backed web applications to support client needs using Azure SQL Services, WebAPI 2.0 Rest Services, Blob Services and failover to multiple centers. Multi-tenant solution allowing multiple verticals to share codebase and database architecture.  ? Implement Azure Traffic Manager to insure failover and provide maximum uptime for client applications.  ? Develop public facing website utilizing Angular 1.4, Bootstrap, Google Map API and .NET WebAPI technologies in a Responsive UI with Visual Studio 2015 in C# and VB.NET.  ? Work with customers to analyze and problem solve best solution to issues faced with current software. Senior Analyst COMCAST - Plymouth, MI February 2012 to August 2014 Provide SQL Server training to development and analyst staff.  ? Provide mentoring for Visual Studio 2010 and 2013.  ? Architect Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) with Model View View-Model (MVVM) pattern and Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) applications to support business practices.  ? Develop SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) reporting solution for current and future reporting needs.  ? Develop SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages and data warehouse solution for incoming Teradata, DB2, Oracle and SQL Server feeds. Data inbound averaged 25GB per day.  ? Support existing ASP.NET reporting application.  ? Stabilize and improve daily job processes.  ? Work with VP of Finance and other executives to develop dashboard metrics utilizing WPF.  ? Provide daily ad-hoc reporting capabilities as needed. Web Developer GROUP ASSOCIATES - Bingham Farms, MI July 2011 to January 2012 • Provide SQL Server training to all development staff.  • Provide mentoring for Visual Studio 2010, Team Foundation Services (TFS) and Build practices.  • Architect updated solution for web application used by 250,000+ clients for benefits administration. Infrastructure/Operations Manager RECELLULAR - Dexter, MI April 2011 to July 2011 • Manage 26 onsite servers including SQL Server 2008, Exchange 2003, SharePoint 2003, Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, Great Plains, Terminal Servers and over 300 PC's at 3 locations.  • Managed desktop support staff.  • Architected Oracle solution utilizing a new EMC SAN and Sun Blade architecture. Lead Developer ReCellular May 2010 to April 2011 • Introduce Agile Methodologies and practices utilizing Scrum to existing and new team members.  • Architect, develop and deploy enterprise-wide line of business Silverlight application with WCF in VB.NET. The application supports Quality Control, e-commerce platforms and plant inventory control and movement.  • Managed training, code reviews, complete software development lifecycle and issue tracking.  • Migrate all development to Visual Studio 2010 and TFS. SQL Developer ReCellular November 2009 to May 2010 • Diagnose and resolve significant slowdown issues in legacy applications, both in .NET codebase as well as SQL code.  • Implement SQL Server Reporting Services. Train staff on writing reports using Report Builder Tool.  • Implement SQL Server 2008 for use as the SSRS as well as Windows Server Update Services (WSUS).  • Develop SQL coding standards and train existing staff in best practices.  • Work with staff to develop code review processes, code repositories and best practices for ASP applications, VB.Net applications as well as new Silverlight and WPF applications. Software Developer/Analyst VALASSIS - Livonia, MI August 2008 to November 2009 • Responsible for streamlining and improving applications as business processes evolve. Duties include gathering requirements, documenting processes, planning and implementing solutions.  • Develop several WPF maintenance applications that reduced amount of manual steps in maintaining data.  • Responsible for maintaining existing VB6 legacy applications that manage various business processes involving ads, promotions and sales. Developer/DBA/System Architect LOGISTICS COMPUTER SERVICES - Allen Park, MI July 2007 to July 2008 • Responsible for EDI to manufacturers, suppliers and 3rd party vendors.  • Architect next generation Yard Management System (YMS). WPF, WCF, SQL Server and VB.NET are utilized. Developer/DBA/System Architect GREAT EXPRESSIONS DENTAL CENTERS - Bloomfield Hills, MI August 2005 to July 2007 • Architect internal systems to manage LAN and remote offices in 7 states including WSUS, Kronos and LANDesk services.  • Architect and develop internal website for managing business practices across remote locations.  • Implement Citrix and smart client technologies in several states to reduce maintenance and logistics support.    PREVIOUS HISTORY AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST Education None in Computer Science OAKLAND UNIVERSITY - Honors College - Rochester, MI August 1985 Skills Sql server, Sql, .net, Visual studio, Bootstrap Certifications/Licenses MCSA - Azure Machine Learning April 2019 to Present Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  ? SQL Server  ? Data Architect  ? Azure Services  ? Machine Learning  ? Angular  ? Bootstrap  ? TFS  ? Agile/Scrum  ? .NET  ? Visual Studio  ? Vue  ? SSIS    ADDITIONAL SKILLS    ? Proficient in Microsoft Office (PowerPoint, Outlook, Word, Excel)  ? Strong problem solving skills.  ? Strong analytical skills.  ? Ability to work with customer to determine needs.