Contractor ( Software Engineer, Remote) Contractor (<span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer, Remote) Contractor ( Software Engineer, Remote) Charlotte, NC An accomplished Software Engineer / Architect who thrives on technical challenges and problem-solving.  Strengths lie in automation and application design and implementation. I am self-organized, with experienced time management skills, a strong focus to tasks, creative, forward thinking and a curious problem solver. Has developed many desktop and web/mobile applications used by hundreds of thousands of users.    Have designed and developed: ? UI development for desktop, web and mobile applications ? Data architecture using SQL (DDL / DML) ? Back-end development using client-server, multi-tiered and distributed architectures ? Frameworks and libraries for use in: Python, Android, Java, Swing    Worked in the following industries: ? Information Services, Data Center Asset Management ? Product Manufacturing, Ecommerce Image Publishing ? Financial Trading, Financial Banking (small & large), Life Insurance, Retirement ? Government Defense, Aerospace Manufacturer, Military Provider ? Mental Health Services, Health Care Products, Power Utility ? Network / Hardware Appliances, Education (University & College Consortiums)    Technical    Languages: Python, Kotlin, Android, Java (J2SE & J2EE), JavaScript, SQL, C/C++  Databases: MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle  Design: SQL (DDL/DML), Object Oriented, Client-Server  Mobile UI: Android, Kotlin, Bootstrap  Desktop UI: Tkinter, Swing, AWT, Win32, ActiveX  Web UI: Bootstrap, ExtJS, React, JavaScript, HTML, CSS  Web Back-end: Django, Flask, Node.js, Express.io, Spring, JSP, Servlets, Velocity, Tomcat  OS Platforms: Linux / Unix, OSX, Windows  Other: GIT, Bash, Splunk Enterprise Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Contractor ( Software Engineer, Remote) FIS - Jacksonville, FL February 2018 to Present Developed code for an asset management system used to track data center computer/network asset information. Created automated ETL workflows (through Django commands) to pull data from multiple sources, analyze and generate daily/weekly dashboard metrics on data and environment status.  Development environment: Python 3, Django 2, MySQL, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Linux, Bash, GIT Consultant ( Software Engineer) Shutterfly - Fort Mill, SC September 2017 to December 2017 Worked within the main Lab Engineering team, problem solving production workflow activities within a print manufacturing environment.  Development environment: Python 2, SQLite, JavaScript, Oracle, Linux, daily Scrum Consultant (Architect / Engineer, Remote) Alexander Home Remodeling - Miami, FL July 2017 to October 2017 Developed a web presence for a small home remodeling business. Developed a RESTful api for an existing backend business logic. Provided enhancements to their web and mobile UI to access their back-end business data / metrics.  Development environment: Python 2, Flask, MySQL, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Linux, Android, Kotlin Consultant ( Software Engineer, Remote) TIAA - Charlotte, NC June 2014 to July 2017 Consulted for two different groups within the Retirement & Individual Technology division.    Auditing Group: provided auditing services for select client data. The team of 6 employed agile development and daily Scrum based meetings. Developed queries, dashboards and reports within a clustered Splunk Enterprise system. Developed back-end Python and Bash shell scripts for database access, network file management and rule-based data processing. Processed terabytes amount of data.  Development environment: Python 2, SQLAlchemy, Linux, Oracle and Splunk Enterprise    Platform Metrics Group: focus was to gather company data (from multiple sources) and provide metrics for everything under the sun logins, customer and product performance, web links traversal patterns, UX design issues, IVR phone calls, paper process, withdrawals, bottlenecks, efficiency, performance, etc. The team of 27 employed agile development and daily Scrum meetings. Designed and developed front-end UIs and back-end RESTful APIs along with designed database storage. Data was deployed internally and accessed via web, mobile devices and stand-alone Kiosks distributed across multiple campuses.  Development environment: Java, JSP, Spring, JDBC, SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ExtJS UI components (Grids / Forms), Tomcat, Linux, MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle, Splunk Enterprise, SVN, Jira and Balsamiq  Mockup (wireframe designs). Consultant ( Software Engineer) Millennium Advisors January 2014 to June 2014 Ballantyne, NC    Developed a real-time financial messaging system using Node.js, Express.io, Angular.js, JSON, JMS (ActiveMQ), JDBC (MySQL) and Java Swing-based desktop applications. Incorporated industry standard  FIX, QuickFIX/J library for Fixed Income application integration / development with external commercial financial data services such as Bond Desk, Bond Point, MarketAxess and MarkIt.com.  Development environment: Java, Swing, JDBC, JMS, MySQL, Node.js, JavaScript Consultant ( Software Engineer) Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC September 2013 to January 2014 Served as a senior application developer for the online web account & preferences team. Provided design  CariTony@Yahoo.com Remote Charlotte, NC 3   and development of database schemas and web-based application logic.  Development environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JAXB, JAXP, Oracle Consultant ( Software Developer, Remote) Bank of America - Charlotte, NC March 2012 to September 2013 Served as a senior application developer for the eCommerce "Remote Deposit Branch Capture" division.  Provided code development and production support for multi-tiered eCommerce web applications running on Oracle DB, Oracle GoldenGate data replication, WebSphere Application Server, AIX Unix and Windows  Servers and NCR Aptra Passport software platforms. Developed SQL, PL/SQL stored procedures, Unix  Bash/Dos/Ant, Python and Perl scripts and custom desktop and server applications (using HTML,  JavaScript/jQuery, Java Swing, JSP, JDBC, JSON and XML) to analyze, manage and troubleshoot daily issues. Leveraged data analysis tools Introscope and Splunk Enterprise to monitor daily data and production issues. Senior Software Developer, Remote Avocent - Fort Lauderdale, FL August 2008 to January 2012 Concord, NC    Served as a senior software engineer for the embedded software systems group. Designed, developed client software applications that interface with embedded server management products (product Network  Appliance) via network Socket protocols, web, Java Swing and ActiveX based KVM clients. The embedded web applications were developed using Linux, C++, HTML and JavaScript technologies hosted on an embedded web server. The desktop applications were developed using Java Swing, ActiveX, Sockets and  Threads. The development environment consisted of Linux, Windows, Python, Bash Scripting, VI,  NetBeans, Ant and SVN. Also developed proof of concept versions of the KVM client applications using  HTML5 / Websockets and Flex / ActionScript technologies. Senior Software Engineer / Data Architect II Bank United - Miami, FL October 2005 to July 2008 Served as senior Java architect for in-house application development. I designed and developed various desktop and web applications which provided internal services to employees and external services to clients. The desktop applications were designed using Java Swing interfaces, Sockets, JDBC, XML and  JAXB technologies via Java Web Start. The web applications were designed using .NET (ASP.Net, C#),  Java Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, JavaScript technologies hosted on Tomcat application servers. Developed proof of concept versions of applications using object-relational persistence technologies such as db4Objects and Java Persistence API (EJB3).  Development environment: Java, Swing, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, Oracle, C#, .NET Latent Enterprises - Miami, FL May 2008 to June 2008 Designed and developed a small business e-commerce website using PHP and MySQL database. Senior Java Developer Luno Technologies - Miami, FL October 2007 to May 2008 Miami, FL 10/2007 to 5/2008  Provided mentoring services in design and development using Java technologies. Also acted as Senior Java Developer for on-going projects using Java and .Net technologies. Consultant (Principal / Owner) Luno Technologies - Miami, FL January 2001 to May 2008 Court Options - Miami, FL July 2004 to September 2005 CariTony@Yahoo.com Remote Charlotte, NC 4    Designed and developed a web based application for internal management of client information.  The application incorporated desktop (Java Swing) interfaces and web-based (JSP / Servlets) interfaces to access and manage information stored within a MySQL database. Chrysalis Health - Fort Lauderdale, FL January 2001 to August 2005 I served as the company's director of information systems (IT). I designed and managed support for all related computer systems (hardware), applications ( software), data storage (databases) and networking of computer systems. Also designed and developed various client-server and web-based applications for internal management of company information. These applications incorporated multiple desktop (Swing) and web-based (JSP and Servlets) interfaces designed with an MVC architecture with multiple MySQL databases. Luno Technologies - Miami, FL January 2004 to February 2005 Developed a set of libraries to provide an environment for User/Role access management. This library was designed to be presentation-free so re-usage would be optimized across multiple application designs. Provided technical consultation to analysis, design and implementation of web development processes. Also, provided mentoring and tutoring on development for various  Web and Java technologies. Metrycs - Miami, FL June 2003 to December 2004 I developed numerous web (JSP and Servlets) and desktop (Swing) applications using various  Open Source frameworks/libraries. These applications provided for various independent and modular enterprise solutions: CMS, ERP, CRM and web portals providing forums, polls and user/role validation. Global Integrated Systems - Weston, FL April 2003 to June 2003 Designed a new branded web site for an electronic security services company. The site was designed using HTML with CSS and a JSP and Servlets for email and information request storage into a MySQL database. Florida Community College Software Consortium - Fort Lauderdale, FL October 2002 to May 2003 Designed and developed a multi-threaded messaging system. This application is currently being used as part of the FACTS system of Florida schools. This is a stand-alone application using  Sockets that listens on a port waiting for incoming messages (XML and EDI structures) to process. The system was written as a multi-threaded Java server with the ability to dynamically handle messages written to a designed specification interface. The system incorporated encryption and decryption of data, real-time logging of events, mail notification of processes, database access and broker communications to back-end systems. The system incorporated a Swing interface to view and manage its "live" processes through the many steps in its workflow tasks. The Swing interface also provided for debugging and logging of system and application events. Cryptographic services were integrated into the application using JNI to communicate to a CariTony@Yahoo.com Remote Charlotte, NC 5    C/C++ DLL using OpenSSL technologies. A C/C++ executable wrapper was also created to allow simple management within a Windows environment via an automated system service.  (The system is currently still in production use.) Senior Software Developer Intarsys - Miami, FL November 2001 to May 2003 Designed and developed a web application for user validation and management services. This system provided management of users, roles, context and permissions within an application scope. The system was designed using Swing, JSP and Servlets on a 3-tiered system running on Tomcat and JRun persisting to Oracle and MySQL databases. The goal of this application was to design a drop-in system that could be used for multiple projects which required user access / management. Florida Youth Soccer Association - Miami, FL January 2003 to April 2003 Designed and developed a web application used to manage user login validation and data processing services for multiple soccer teams. This application uses the UMS (user management system) mentioned above and incorporated client data uploading technologies. The goal of this application was to allow soccer teams to login and upload data to the server for data processing using any web browser. (The system is currently still being used.) Student Form Application Florida Center - Tampa, FL November 2001 to October 2002 Tampa, FL    Designed and developed a web application to replace the then existing paper process used by Florida public colleges and universities. This application, the ETSFA (Electronic Transient  Student Form Application), was a web-based, 3-tiered environment designed using Java technologies (JSP, Servlets, JDBC and Socket communication using XML and EDI structured data protocols). This application performed as a document management workflow engine for student processes. (The system is currently still in production use.) Consultant ( Software Developer / Architect) Miami-Dade College - Miami, FL March 1999 to November 2001 Was part of a team of 3 to design and develop a modern web-enabled architecture to an existing mainframe system. The goal of this system was to replace legacy mainframe terminal interfaces with modern cutting-edge web-based environments. A secondary goal was to provide a better experience for students and their schooling needs.    The design incorporated a web UI (using Java AWT, HTML and JavaScript), a back-end system (using JSP,  Servlets, JDBC, XML, Tomcat), a relational database (Oracle) and a broker that communicated with a Mainframe containing the Student data and services. The web-enabled system provided access to student services such as login Pin Validation, Course Search, Course Schedule Build, Course Registration, Schedule  Print Out and online credit card payment processing. The system incorporated Java AWT and Swing applets that provided students with a simple downloadable interface (applet) that provided multiple student services within a single application. (The back-end Java system is currently still in production use.) Software Developer Megha Systems - Irving, TX September 1997 to January 1999 Served as a developer for in-house project development of client PDM (product data management) systems. Designed and implemented Java AWT applets and early Java Swing based applications using RMI and early JDBC technologies using Oracle databases on Solaris and AIX systems. Developed various  C/C++ applications for data file and web (CGI) processing. Structural Dynamics Research Corporation - Irving, TX September 1997 to January 1999 Megha Systems - Sunnyvale, CA May 1998 to August 1998 to 08/1998)  Tinker Air Force Base (Oklahoma, OK 02/1998 to 05/1998) Northrop Grumman - Garland, TX February 1998 to April 1998 Abbott Laboratories - Irving, TX February 1998 to March 1998 Software Developer Eras JV - Miami, FL November 1996 to September 1997 Designed and developed various applications for local banking institutions. Developed front-end desktop  UIs using Visual C++. Developed client-server applications for data processing, terminal emulation, check image viewing and data processing (decryption algorithms). Developed browser based Java applets and desktop applications using AWT. These Java applets provided customer banking services such as feedback, comments, complaints and provided bank teller services such as customer information lookup and check image viewing. Web Designer Miami, FL January 1996 to September 1997 Designed web sites and small applications for personal and small businesses using MS Access, Visual  C/C++, Java AWT applets, HTML, JavaScript and Perl CGI scripts on Linux servers. Junior Software Programmer SunGuard Data Systems - Miami, FL June 1995 to November 1996 I developed customized desktop software for the insurance industry using Visual C++, MS Access and ODBC. Designed and optimised C/C++ code for custom software engines requiring a high degree of mathematical computations. Lab Internship CariTony@Yahoo.com - Charlotte, NC January 1995 to August 1995 6    Robotics & Automation Laboratory, Mechanical Engineering Department  Florida International University - Miami, Florida    Designed and developed a graphical simulation of an industrial robot using Borland Turbo C++ within an MS DOS environment. The goal of this development was to build a tool to help students study and simulate the robot's properties (mechanical, electrical, structural, etc.). Education Bachelors of Science in Mechanical Engineering Florida International University - Miami, FL 1995 Associate of Arts in Physics Miami Dade Community College - Miami, FL 1992 Skills Embedded, C, Python, Java, Linux, Javascript, Django, Android, Kotlin, Bash, SQL, MySQL