NET Developer NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> NET Developer - Unum Insurance Portland, ME ? Around 8 years of professional IT Experience in analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of Client/Server and Web-based N-tier architecture systems using Microsoft Technologies.  ? Extensive experience in building web applications using ASP.NET MVC, C#, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, jQuery,AngularJS, T-SQL.  ? Created data driven web applications and event driven programming model using n-tier for ASP.NET and SOA architecture for WCF service.  ? Leveraged message and transport level security features using WCF service.  ? Used Design patterns such as Singleton, Abstract Factory, Command and Bridge to create family of related objects and for logging application events to database.  ? Over 5 yrs. of experience in developing UI layer using HTML, CSS, AJAX and jQueryUI libraries.  ? Experience in using ASP.NET client and server side session management techniques.  ? Used Entity Framework database first approach to create models and entities to perform CRUD operations in the database.  ? Experience in securing web applications using ASP.NET authentication and authorization mechanisms.  ? Used LINQ and lambda expressions to manipulate XML and data in the objects.  ? Experience in using MS Enterprise library for logging and creating data access layer.  ? Experience in handling various backend data sources like MS SQL Server, Oracle, and XML Data source.  ? Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers, and User Defined Functions.  ? Experience with various version control systems like Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, Team Foundation Server, and SVN.  ? Experienced in test driven development using N-Unit Testing for the piecewise testing of the applications.  ? Strong experience in creating reports using Microsoft SSRS and Crystal Reports.  ? Worked in Agile Environment and participated in daily SCRUM and Sprint meetings.  ? Followed TDD approach to produce quality code and eliminate bugs in the code. Work Experience NET Developer Unum Insurance - Portland, ME June 2017 to Present Unum is a 165 years old company. It is currently the largest disability insurance company worldwide. Unum is an organization built on openness, trust and integrity.  Responsibilities:  • Effectively involved in various stages of the development starting from the Project planning till production and maintenance.  • Worked with Agile/Scrum Environment to meet the timelines and interaction with the team.  • Developed the Business Logic layer and Data Access layer using OOPS concepts to provide code inheritance and encapsulation.  • Implement user interface using Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) pattern  • Experience working in divergent technologies including C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET 3.5/4.0/4.5,WCF, WPF, ADO.NET, XML.  • Developed, maintained user interface screens using ASP .NET MVC, C#, Javascript, JQuery, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap UI.  • Designed and built SOA based services using NService Bus and ESB Architecture.  • Used Linq to SQL and Linq to Objects, Linq to entities to perform the in memory data operations.  • Used XML as data transfer format to make application communicate with each other.  • Developed stored procedures, views, cursors and triggers using in SQL Server2014.  • Created Nuget packages, Build Templates and MS Release Templates.  • Created Jams jobs to run the batch process.  • Developed test cases and performed MS unit testing.  • Involved in Deploying components into various environments using Release Manager.    Environment: C#, .Net 4.5, MVC 5.0, MVVM, LINQ, Agile/Scrum Methodology,JQuery, Java Script, AngularJS, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, Bootstrap, MS SQL server 2014,NService Bus, WCF, WPF, TFS,Release Manager, JAMS Automation, IIS 6.0/7.5. Net Developer Thomson Reuters - Orlando, FL February 2016 to June 2017 Aumentum is one of the divisions of Tax and Accounting departments in Thomson Reuters, which provides software to governments to manage revenue generation through land and property. It had a web application for property valuation and management; we did enhancements to the existing web forms.  Responsibilities:  • Study, understand and analyze the project requirements.  • Designed the service order repair module of the application in .NET framework.  • Developed the user interface using ASP.NET, C# .NET Microsoft .NET framework and designed UI using CSS, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Design and development of user interface using ASP.NET, MVC, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Implemented new designs, porting and styling legacy pages, integrating JQuery plugins, converting static forms into Ajax overlays.  • Used MVVM pattern while building WPF application.  • Used JQuery for client-side scripting and Entity framework as ORM tool with database first approach.  • Used WCF for developing the services and exposed those using SOAP & Http Protocols.  • Business Logic has been implemented using the concepts of secure coding features and Object Oriented programming (OOP) with Code behind language C#.  • Created Stored Procedures, Tables and Views in the database using MS SQL.  • Implemented Data Access Layer using Entity Framework to get and update data.  • Designed and implemented Data access layers using LINQ for XML Data  • Used grid views for displaying and modifying the data from the database.  • Implemented application state using view state, session variables and query strings.  • Extensively worked with web parts and web controls.  • Created reports using SSRS reporting services and exported them to shared paths required for other teams.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) and SVN for version control and to maintain consistency with the remote team members.    Environment: ASP.NET 4.0, MVC 3.0, MVVM, ADO.NET, Visual Studio 2012, Entity Framework 4.0, C#, WPF, Web services, XML, XAML, HTML, DHTML, Java Script, JQuery, LINQ , SQL-Server 2012, TFS. Net Developer Commonwealth of Massachusetts - Boston, MA October 2014 to January 2016 Group Insurance Commission is one of the departments in Commonwealth of Massachusetts; it has online inquiry system web application, we converted the existing web forms app to MVC in development phase.  Responsibilities:  ? Wrote low level technical design documents based on users input and business requirements.  ? Created operations in WCF service for managing all database related operations.  ? Created front end framework using MVC4, CSS3 and JavaScript libraries.  ? Analyzed and designed new WPF application using MVVM and Repository pattern, from design to completion.  ? Extended views to use jQuery validation library for required field validations and created functions to manipulate user input and show messages on the fly.  ? Designed and created layout pages to provide consistent look across all views.  ? Applied bootstrap styles to manipulate and decorate html elements in views.  ? Created actions in the controller to compose data using models and generate Views that are strongly typed to Model.  ? Extended WCF web service using C# to interact with the other applications and exposed them using SOAP message format and HTTP protocol.  ? Used LINQ to build set of operations, parameters and expressions (Binary, Unary, Lambda) during execution (aimed at "Querying") a set of data from SQL Server.  ? Created objects in DAL using repository pattern and EF code first approach.  ? Used fiddler to monitor the http calls and response times from server.  ? Wrote SSIS packages to migrate data from old database to new database.  ? Followed TDD approach and created unit tests to test controller actions and other functions.  ? Participated in daily scrums and weekly meetings with the project sponsors to meet expectations and deadlines.    Environment: .Net Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2010, ASP.Net, C#, CSS3, HTML, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, MVC 4, SQL Server 2008, LINQ, WCF, Entity Framework 5, SSRS, SSIS, Fiddler, WCF. Net Developer Modern Woodmen - Rock Island, IL September 2012 to October 2014 Modern Woodmen of America is the third-largest (based on assets) fraternal benefit society, Policy Administration System is a transformation project that aims at converting and integration code from old legacy systems into .NET platform. We enhanced the business processes and converted them to .Net Platform.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, Requirements gathering and Development of the project.  • Created low level technical design document by analyzing BRD created by analyst.  • Created Asp.net MVC razor views, models and actions in controller in UI layer.  • Developed JQuery Ajax driven MVC Partial views to call enterprise web services.  • Provide the navigation between the pages by implementing MVC routing concepts.  • Configure the Entity framework to access the database tables and performing data manipulations.  • Implemented the Business logic in C#.NET, where all the Business Objects are written in developing the whole Application.  • Used JavaScript to perform the client side validations and to generate dynamic actions.  • Create AJAX methods to perform asynchronous calls to actions in controller.  • Developed the Web Services and invoked them by using XML, SOAP and WSDL tool for creating proxy classes.  • Worked with SOAPUI to test the Web Services.  • Worked with Proxy Classes via web methods.  • Worked on XML Serialization to access the properties of an object and modify its values.  • Tested the application as per the test cases and business logic using unit test and fixed the bugs.  • Involved in testing the application using N-Unit testing.  • Used TFS for source code repository.  Environment: ASP.Net 3.5, MVC 4, C#.Net, Unit Testing, VS 2010, SQL-Server 2008, XML, Windows XP, JavaScript, HTML, SOA, OOAD, TFS, WCF, MS SQL, N-unit. Net Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH September 2011 to August 2012 Over the last 85 years, Nationwide has grown from a small mutual auto insurer owned by policyholders to one of the largest insurance and financial services companies in the world.  Responsibilities:  • Extended the UI framework for adding new fields and validations for creating the quote online and purchasing the policy.  • Created objects for database access and other business components using C# and ADO.NET.  • Used AJAX to call web methods during partial page requests.  • Worked on UI issues to fix bugs related to cross browser functionality.  • Created various events in code behind to manipulate user actions and bind data.  • Created Entity Connection and Entity Command objects to call the stored procedures from the database.  • Developed Web Services for obtaining structured data for financial information.  • Developed client side validation and dynamic UI using JavaScript and HTML.  • Implemented authentication and role based security using ASP.NET membership provider.  • Used N Unit for unit testing of each of the components was done by developing test cases and test data and also Integration testing with other intranet modules was done in subsequent iterations.    Environment: Microsoft Visual Studios 2005, Entity Framework, ASP.NET 4.0, .NET, SQL Server 2008, Ajax 2.0, IIS 7.0, Windows 7, TFS, SSRS, JavaScript, CSS, XML, HTML,UML and MS-Office. Net Developer Polaris Financial Technology Ltd Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2010 to July 2011 Polaris is a leading Financial Technology company headquartered in Chennai. It was one of the first vendors that Citi Group chose to partner with, when it entered India.  Responsibilities:  ? Interacting with Client to gather requirements and document all the requirements.  ? Involved in the Analysis, Design and Development of the enhancement system.  ? Designed User Interface with HTML and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS).  ? Involved in creation of application setup and reports using ASP, HTML, DHTML, and the Validations were performed using JavaScript.  ? Involved in Object Oriented Analysis and Graphic User Interface (GUI).  ? Implemented Object oriented concepts effectively like inheritance, overloading, and abstract class.  ? Developed JavaScript files for client-side validations.  ? Created (BLL) Business Logic Layer and Presentation layer in ASP.NET.  ? Created Common DATA Access Layer (DAL) Using ADO.NET.  ? Experience in working with Microsoft unity dependency injection services.  ? Involved in Database Design using SQL Server 2000.  ? Creating Packages and Stored Procedures.  ? Held requirements review to get feedback on the requirements and committed on final requirements.  Environment: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Window Forms, Web Services, SQL Server 2000, JavaScript, Visual Source safe, HTML, DHTML, CSS, ASP. Software Developer Syntel Inc - Pune, Maharashtra July 2009 to March 2010 Syntel is a provider of integrated technology and business solutions to companies in the banking and financial services, insurance, logistics and telecom. Syntel services its clients through 16 global development centers in India and the United States.  Responsibilities: Education Bachelor's Skills ASP (8 years), ASP.NET (8 years), HTML (8 years), Javascript (8 years), MS ASP (8 years), C#, .Net 4.5, MVC 5.0, MVVM, LINQ, Agile/Scrum Methodology,JQuery, Java Script, AngularJS, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, Bootstrap, MS SQL server 2014,NService Bus, WCF, WPF, TFS,Release Manager, JAMS Automation, IIS 6.0/7.5. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages C#, JavaScript, T-SQL, PL/SQL  Web Technologies ASP.NET MVC 5/4/3,HTML,CSS, AngularJS, jQuery, XML, JSON, AJAX  Database SQL Server, DB2, Oracle  IDE Tools VisualStudio2014/2012/2010/2008/2005, Notepad++, Dreamweaver  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, Data Reports, SQL Server Reporting Services.  Version controls Visual Source Safe, Team Foundation Server, SVN.  Operating Systems Windows 8/7/Vista/ XP/2000/NT/98/95, Windows Server 2003/2008  Testing N-Unit, SOAP UI  ORM Entity Framework, LINQ to SQL  UI Libraries Twitter Bootstrap, jQuery UI