Technical Lead Technical Lead Senior Consultant - Technical Lead Kingsport, TN More than 9 years as a technical consultant in the information technology industry. Technical lead  providing system administration support to federal government agencies running CGI Federal's COTS  ERP. Maintains self-composure during high stress situations. Ability to work individually as well as  part of team to complete required tasks. Excellent written and verbal communication skills. Career  oriented, searching for a challenging position that offers advancement Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Lead CGI Federal Inc. March 2017 to Present As technical lead, I am responsible for maintaining the COTS ERP for two  government agencies. This includes creating and modifying automation jobs  utilizing the Jenkins application. This allows me to continuously provide  improvements and streamline business process. Recently, I managed a project to migrate all production, test, and disaster recovery environments from the Phoenix Data Center to Microsoft Azure cloud infrastructure. I  worked cohesively with other teams during the provisioning and initial setup  processes. I was the sole technical resource configuring the COTS ERP.  Other members helped with installing and configuring 3 rd Party applications  which integrate to the software. Daily activities include monitoring the applications statuses, assisting with client issues, and providing technical  expertise as needed. Additionally, I am tasked with installing new  deployments to the production and test environments as they are released.  I am responsible for applying security updates to the software. I was part of the team that migrated SAP Business Objects XI 3.1 to SAP Business Team Lead, Procurement Cohort CGI Federal Inc. July 2014 to March 2017 As a team lead, I managed a variety of tasks which included issuing  assignments, annual reviews, and assisting other members with questions and concerns. I also continued to work through defects and enhancements  while managing the team. My team was one of the larger cohorts with 13  members. This included members with various backgrounds and experience  levels ranging from new hires to senior developers. Software Developer, Payables/Travel Cohort CGI Federal Inc. December 2013 to July 2014 As a C++/J2EE Developer, on the Payables/Travel Cohort, I continued my  work with enhancements as well as defects related to the cohort and included subsystems. I would also take on the lead roles and cover for  the team lead as needed. These roles include issuing assignments, reviews, and assisting other members with questi ons and concerns.  During my time on the Payables/Travel Cohort, I was promoted from Consultant to Senior Consultant. This achievement which usually takes  more than 5 years, I was able to accomplish within 4.5 years. Software Developer, Enhancement Team CGI Federal Inc. January 2011 to December 2013 As a C++/J2EE Developer, on the Enhancement Release Team, I was  assigned complex and challenging enhancements. I completed them  proficiently and within specified deadlines. I designed and implemented  enhancements after analyzing functional design requirements documents.  I encouraged his leads and managers to assign difficult tasks as well as assign tasks that require complex J2EE development, a language I was  beginning to learn. Software Developer, Service Release Team CGI Federal Inc. June 2010 to January 2011 As a C++ Developer, on the Service Release Team, I assigned and completed various defects found in the COTS ERP. Web Developer/Database Administrator Assistant AAM Group 2009 to 2010 As a web developer, I developed web-based applications using PHP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. I integrated the PayPal Payment Processing  API into the ecommerce website. During this time, I assisted the DBA with administering Microsoft SQL Server databases. Education M.B.A. in Management Information Systems King University - Kingsport, TN Present B.S. in Computer Science and Information Sciences East Tennessee State University - Johnson City, TN 2010 Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Perl, Php, Python, Xml, Sap business objects, T-sql, Sap, R2, Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 11, Devops, Java J2Ee, Java Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/danieljcassel Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS    Languages  Proficient: C++, SQL, PERL, CMD/BAT, SH  Familiar: J2EE, PL/SQL, T-SQL, HTML, JavaScript, XML, PHP, Python  Software  Database: Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle 11/12, SQLite  Platforms: Windows (XP, Vista, 7, 10), Windows Server (2008 R2, 2012 R2), Unix, Linux (RHEL)  Other: Oracle Tuxedo, Oracle WebLogic, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visual Studio, Eclipse, SQ L  Developer, JIRA, GIT, STASH, AdTempus, Jenkins, SAP Business Objects, Microsoft Azure