Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - AT & T Inc Plano, TX Work Experience Full Stack Developer AT & T Inc - Dallas, TX September 2018 to Present • Enhancing the Java-based platform's time complexity by utilizing and improving upon Optaplanner.  • Developing API that optimizes technician work time and works load by implementing big data models. Full Stack Developer UnitedHealth Group - Basking Ridge, NJ June 2018 to August 2018 • Designed and Implemented Kafka API to speed up the transaction process from 3 to 100 transactions/seconds.  • Built OpenShift infrastructure for DEV, QA, Stage, Production level of Kafka application which manages REST API and containers effectively.  • Deployed various environments using XL Deploy to monitor system resources to reduce deployment time by 17 %, errors and failed deployments dropped by 15%. Software Engineer Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd - Miramar, FL January 2018 to April 2018 • Developed distributed responsive, scalable and riskless system using a Lagom microservices for web and mobile clients.  • Programmed and maintain instances of Apache SOLR for full-text search, faceted search, auto index replication and dynamic clustering.  • Production support including troubleshooting issues and resolving technically complex software defects in Java. Software Test Technician Hyve Solutions - Fremont, CA July 2017 to January 2018 • Designed dynamic and cross browser compatible application using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript and REST API.  • Maintained know-how guides summarizing defects and their solutions.  • Participated in engineering test team to monitor system matrices, and to identify and solve defects. Academic Project September 2016 to December 2016 • Developed AWS hosted, career counselling web application, using Java Spring boot, and MongoDB, with features such as chat-bot, user registration, and subscription based personalized newsletters. Academic Project Bhaskaracharya Institute for Space Applications and Geo-Informatics, Gandhinagar, India January 2014 to May 2014 • Built RESTful web application using Spring MVC, JSP, and MySql that helped Managers filter and select employees by skill, and performance rating. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Northwestern Polytechnic University 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Charusat University 2014 Master of Business Administration in Business Administration University of the Cumberlands Skills Kafka, Apache solr, Solr, Load balancing, Splunk, Docker, Git, Html, Jenkins, Json, Solr, Xml, Eclipse, J2ee, Hibernate, Spring, Jsp, Servlets, Database, Jdbc, Java, Angular, Javascript, Nodejs, Node Links http://linkedin.com/in/meet-joshi-5b75b310b Additional Information Technical Skills    • Tools &Technologies: J2EE-Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, Spring Boot, JDBC, XML, HTML, CSS, JSON, Junit    • Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, Apache HTTP Server    • Cloud Computing: AWS EC2, AWS S3, AWS Map Reducing, AWS Elastic Load Balancing, AWS Lambda, AWS EBS    • Design Tools and IDE's: - Net beans, Eclipse, IntelliJ    • Database: SQL, PL/SQL, My SQL, No SQL, Mongo DB, Oracle, MS Access    • Others: Git, Docker, Jenkins, Apache Solr, Apache Mesos, Splunk, Apigee, Kafka, Postman