Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Express Scripts Troy, IL A self motivated, adaptable developer who reliably delivers well-crafted solutions. A passionate technical leader who improves team’s ability to consistently and expediently promote features to the customer. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO April 2016 to Present Guided the transition to new tools and agile practices for multiple teams during crucial ramp up year. As technical lead, anchored the creation of a new development team that set shop standards for process, development, and delivery. Designed and coded new features for the company and rapidly converted error prone legacy features. Senior Web Developer Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis - St. Louis, MO December 2014 to March 2016 Senior developer for the modernization of multi-client web application. Quickly assimilated technical and business requirements, delivering code that was a repeatable template for later efforts. Was assigned the role of technical lead due to the strong contributions to the design  and development of the application. Led large development team and dramatically improved team practices around documentation, unit testing, peer review, and continuous integration. Software Engineer / Senior Software Engineer Reed Elsevier - Maryland Heights, MO November 2008 to December 2014 Lead developer for business intelligence team delivering Java based web services and Talend driven ETL systems. Developer for shared service team building out Java based access and entitlement web services.  Piloted development of custom solutions that required quick turnaround with minimal requirement definition. Forward thinking designs frequently became common components for other efforts; reducing code time and standardizing processes across applications. Contributions were essential for keeping 100% of releases on time and on budget. Senior Application Programmer NCI - Scott AFB, IL April 2007 to November 2008 Contracted as lead developer for software team tasked with providing a web based inspection and reporting solution for the Air Force Inspector General. Responsible for leading system design, establishing team goals, and driving development. Delivered well received, multifaceted, JavaScript enabled, Java web application on schedule. Application Programmer United States Air Force - Scott AFB, IL February 2003 to April 2007 {Enlisted - Honorably Discharged}   Developer for Oracle Forms application team enhancing an inspection tool comprised of standalone applications and a web based reporting client for the Air Mobility Command Inspector General. Showed interest and aptitude for object oriented concepts becoming the lead contributor to the Java redesign by the end of active duty service. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems McKendree University - Lebanon, IL August 2006 Skills Spring, Javascript, Java Additional Information Clearance: Top Secret, U.S. AIR FORCE, 2005 – EXPIRED –    Experience: » Java   » Spring   » SpringBoot   » Maven » GitHub   » Jenkins » React » Redux   » Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF)   » JAX-RS   » JRS-303 » JUnit   » EasyMock » Mockito   » ES6 » Jasmine » Hibernate   » JPA » PL/SQL » PostgreSQL   » REST   » SOAP » Web Services   » Atlassian » Confluence   » Crucible » JIRA » Talend   » Informatica