Vice President, IT Vice President, IT Vice President, IT Buena Park, CA Summary  Accomplished IT hands-on executive with over 20 years of broad based experience of Management, Data Analytics and Reporting, Data Science,  Database Development, Software Development, and programming. Demonstrated leadership abilities to complete tasks under minimal direction  and supervision in a fast-paced environment. Committed to deliver a high level of problem solving skills and eager to overcome new challenges.  Possessed excellent communication and organizational skills. Exceptional ability to get data management needs and team building, can work  independently or as an effective team member.    Professional Summary  • Experience of 15+ Systems Development Life Cycles (SDLC) from gathering requirements to go live with focus on process-oriented approach and  provided post production support  • Excellent both oral and written skills, ability to communicate effectively to executives and leadership. Proficient at interconnecting in both  technical and user-friendly business language.  • Leading strategic designs, define Roadmaps, managing developers/contractors, monitor day to day operation, prioritizing and distribute projects  and workloads.  • Directed Software development and full stack team, worked closely with developers to ensure completion of deliverables in timely manner and  according project management plan.  • Created and managed data science department and worked closely with AI and CV teams. Generated and train various data models using both  actual and synthetic data. Applied various machine learning algorithm techniques such as decision tree, random forest, K nearest neighbors,  leaner regression and neural networks for advanced and predictive analysis. Performed comparative analysis and executed A/B testing on various  scenarios.  • Designed interactive dashboards using Tableau, Power BI, SAP Design Studio/ Lumira Designer, Lumira Discovery etc. Generated various  paginated reports using Microsoft SSRS, Crystal reports, and SAP Business objects tool.  • Implemented and administer BI policies and procedures. Suggested and applied best practices.  • Created documentations of new projects as well as established procedures and processes.  • Optimized ETL and DW in order to reduce data loading time and speed up report generation.  • Presented long term and stable solution for standard and cumbersome business needs.  • Highly skilled in the areas of Project Life Cycle, BI Architecture, Database Design, Development, Installation, Troubleshooting, Debugging, Setup  Security, Reporting and Testing.  • Various ERP systems experience and through knowledge of master data management (MDM), Hierarchies, ERP data.  • Generated reporting solutions in the areas of Sales and Distribution (SD), Accounting, Finance, Controlling, Operations, Cost analysis, Business  Planning and Consolidation (BPC), SCM (Supply Chain Management), Material Management, SCM APO (Advanced Planning and Optimization),  Budget, Go-To-Market (GTM) etc.  • Designed and implemented both roles-based security as well as row level security.  • Familiar with SOX (Sarbanes-Oxley) requirements related to IT. Worked in n-tier systems/environments per SOX compliance.  • Strong command in design and develop both front-end and back-end objects, ability to identify issues and strong problem-solving expertise.  • Experienced across entire Microsoft BI suite including SQL server, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS and Power BI.  • Designed back-end database using MS SQL Server, Oracle, SAP BI/BW, MySQL and MS Access. Perform DDL, DML and SQL functions.  • Developed database objects using Stored Procedure, PL-SQL, T-SQL, Triggers, Functions, Views, Unions and joins.  • Designed space dimension programs using ProSpace, Excel, MS Access and Visual Basic  • Supported development team by analyzing, designing, and modifying accounting software with Java and C++  P a g e 1 of 3 Work Experience Vice President, IT Data Science and Technology - Aliso Viejo, CA July 2018 to May 2019 Established vision for the company's technology roadmap and planning. Implemented and led the technical initiatives required to realize that  vision.  • Responsible for defining, overseeing and delivering 9 products within 10 months.  • Hired, managed, motivated and mentored teams to execute vision. Supervised on day to day basis Data group, Software development  department and full stack team.  • Directed the development and implementation of cloud strategy and approach, promoted solutions on Microsoft Azure could.  • Worked closely with developers to architect and develop the best technical design and approach to re-form the data capture engine.  • Led and successfully accomplished refactor project of AWM portal from Angular, node.js and fire base technology stack to react.JS, .net (C#) and SQL server to make it scalable. Also, migrated data from legacy system.  • Completely redesigned database architecture, data model and database schema to accommodate business current and future needs.  • Implemented staggered three tire distributed architecture for data to be exported from local DB to primary DB via Distributor DB with push  mechanism to reduce data loss and improve data transfer efficiency.  • Administered normalization rules to the database to reduce redundancy, increase consistency and make it flexible.  • Applied industry's best practice to the solutions and security measures by using rest API and utilized SQL Server stored procedure, views and functions etc. to help reduce future downtime for newer implementations, new business rule adoption or any amendments.  • Standardize and stream line technology stack to reduce complexity, increase cost savings through improved efficiency, economy of scale, greater  support and simplify future control.  • Helped software development team to re-build distributed software from single threaded functional C programming language to multithread  object-oriented GO lang. This has improved the efficiency by 80%.  • Applied agile methods for project management, utilizing techniques like sprint planning, backlog grooming, new product development, create  stories, etc. using Jira and documentation using confluence.  • Constructed new QA department and Introduced CI (continuous integration) using automated compilation, automated testing and source control  (Git) integration.  • Integrated data from different sources in various format (JSON, XML, CSV etc.) and marry them with existing data  • Built and establish new Data Science, Analytics and reporting department from ground up.  • Recognized business trend and problems through big data analysis. Used variety of techniques ranging from simple data aggregation via statistical  analysis, data mining, A/B testing, deep learning and Machine learning  • Used different machine learning algorithms on video analytics from AI/CV (Artificial Intelligence and computer vision) for advanced and predictive  analysis such as decision tree, random forest, K nearest neighbors, leaner regression and neural networks.  • Identified useful KPI's and reporting capabilities for customer to make more data driven educated decision.  • Used Hadoop big data (HDFS) with spark using python to identify signals and pattern recognition, remove or reduce the noise from data, transferred cleansed/ massaged data to relational database for it to be married with existing data from different source, turning them into  meaningful information and formulated incredibly valuable insights.  • Created powerful, robust, intuitive and simple interactive dashboard using Power BI and Tableau and paginated reports through SSRS to present  them to the customers and sales team.  • Integrated above presentation layers (dashboards and reports) to the portal for ease of access. Applied role-based, row level, and user/login- based security for data access.  • Strategized, Defined and packaged different subscription-based models that customer can purchase to have access to dashboards and reports.  • Helped CV team to design low cost, only computer vision based (not weight sensor based) frictionless (Cashier-less) store system.  • Created innovative data driven AD Exchange product to display advertisement on smart shelf in real time and space without wearing VR gadget.  • Engaged in important business discussions with senior level management of customers. BI/BW Manager Monster Beverage Corporation - Corona, CA 2006 to May 2018 • Manage projects and developers/contractors, creating project plan, strategic and tactical design, resource estimate, database sizing, develop the BI Strategy, BW technical development, production support, produce documentation.  • Collaborated with business process owners for requirements gathering, facilitate projects definitions, understanding the goals and proposing  helpful potential solutions, timeline and executes deliverables.  • Designed and developed Data Marts, databases, relationship models and blue print.  • Implemented codes, regression and testing, unit testing with users in QA, get approvals, promote the project to production system and Post  production project maintenance through ticketing system.  • Experienced in extracting data from heterogeneous sources - both SAP BW and Non-SAP systems (model and ETL).  • Increased Business visibility by marrying data from multiple sources to help make productive and expert decision.  • Developed multiple dashboards, KPIs, analytical reports, and interactive reports based on business requirements in the areas of SD, FICO, Cost, Accounting, Operations, BPC, SCM, MM, APO, Freight, Depletion, POS and Vistex (GTM).  • Created aggregates, Partitions, attribute relationship to reduce cube processing time from 2hrs to 45minutes and query runtime to 500ms.  • Extensive hands-on experience in installing and activating standard objects as well as designing and building custom info objects, virtual and non- virtual KeyFigures, ODS/DSO, InfoCubes, Multi Providers, InfoSets, Transformations, DTPs, Transfer Rules, Start Routines, End Routines, Open Hub  Destinations (OHD), Data Marts and APDs  • Hands on experience on creating Custom Extractors, custom Hierarchies, debug and write ABAP codes, Function Modules, BAPIs, BADis, UOM  conversion, Currency Conversion, etc  • 5+ years working on BPC (Designed and Configure, maintained several Application Sets, Applications, Data transfer from BW to BPC and From BPC  to BW, Conversion, Transformation, Script Logic, BPC BADis, Data loading Packages, Dimension, Members, Create Custom Hierarchies etc.  • Worked on multiple SAP BW upgrades including migrating data sources and ETL from 3.x to 7.x versions  • Created and maintained report delivery system using SAP BI portals, SAP WAS, Business Objects Enterprise and BEx.  • Proficiency in BEx Queries, Universes, Information Design tool (IDT), Webi (Web Intelligence), Xcelsius, Design Studio, Lumira, BEx Analyzer, BO  Analysis for Office and BO Analysis for OLAP  • Designed, built and implemented Leg based Process Chains for Data Loads thereby reducing the load times by more than 60%. This helps having  data loads completed before most users begin work globally.  • Migrated existing self-service reports and ad-hoc reports to Power BI, developed custom calculated measure using DAX.  • Lead, Initiated and completed the legacy historical data transfer from Legacy ERP to SAP ECC.  • Created ETL with SQL Stored procedure, .net coding and SSIS (SQL server Integration Service)  • Optimized queries and stored procedure using index analysis to reduce the query runtime from 15min. to 10 sec.  • Created web user interface using .net framework to collect and pass parameters to SSRS report to create custom reporting application.  • Several Web developments using ASP.net/JavaScript as presentation layer, writing webservices and code behind using vb.net or C# as middle tier  and SQL server as backend.  • Numerous Windows application development using Visual Studio and .net framework  • Wrote innovative Black berry survey software using java, JavaScript and blackberry management studio. Software Developer Balaji Software - IN 2005 to 2006 India.  • Designed back-end database using MS Access and Oracle, perform DML function.  • Designed database and store procedure using SQL to generate queries and crystal report to generate complex reports.  • Implemented queries and reports using java, C++ and GUI based forms using Visual Basics.  • Support an existing development team by designing, writing and changing applications.  • Analyze customer requirements and needs.  • Planed front-end and back-end JDBC tools according to end-user needs.  • Design front-end tools using object-oriented programming concepts.  • Initiated project life cycle implementation. Software Programmer Ikea Ltd 2003 to 2005 UK  • Designed database with MS Access, Oracle. Front-End in Visual Basic, and Excel.  • Conducted database coding with DB, Clipper and FoxPro for business logic implementation.  • Designed space dimensions using ProSpace, Excel, MS Access and Visual Basic  • Analyze, designed, coded, and implemented Accounting System.  • Optimized the store's logistical efficiency and sales growth by 35%.  • Supported project team by applying my designs to meet company requirements. Software Programmer Saraswati Software Developers - IN 2000 to 2001 India  • Implemented Accounting Systems Software using Visual Basic and FoxPro  • Performed QA task by debugging and using various method of testing to ensure system stability.  • Performed job of CVS (Version controlling for system)  • Upgraded Accounting Management Software from DOS to GUI based system.  • Reorganized the batch offline jobs as per the client requirement and improve efficiency.  • Created DML functions, including, database design, store procedure, queries, FoxPro Rpt. Editor etc Senior Computer Programmer Apollo Computers 1999 to 2000 Intelligent Knowledge Based System Ltd. (Apollo Computers)  • Assist SA in database structure and logic requirements of application system.  • Test and correct logic errors, implementing modules  • Documented programs to meet audit requirements  • Evaluate, install, test and maintain Accounting System Software.  • Maintain and control database management systems.  • Analyzed, designed, coded, and implemented application. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Hertford Shire July 2003 Skills Clipper, Ddl, Foxpro, Microsoft access, Access 97, Microsoft access 97, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Stored procedures, .net, Visual studio, C#, C++, Vc++, Developer 2000, Firebase, Hadoop, Html, Javascript Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/M-P-Patel Additional Information Skills    • SQL SERVER, My SQL • Python, Skala, R, MATLAB, Spark • Node.js, Angular, React  • Hadoop (Big Data), Firebase • SAP BI/BW, BPC • .NET Core, Entity Framework  • Power BI, Tableau • Business Objects (BOBJ) • Visual Basic, VB.NET  • SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS) • Lumira, Design Studio, Webi, Xcelsius • C#, VC++  • SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) • Analysis for Office (Excel, PowerPoint) • ASP, ASP.NET  • T-SQL (DDL, DML, SQL), DMX, MDX, DAX • Business Explorer (BEx) • PHP, Visual Studio  • Stored Procedures, PL - SQL • ABAP • C, C++, Pascal  • Oracle, Crystal Report • SAP Portals (BI/BW, BOBJ) • Microsoft Access 97-2016  • Teradata • JAVA, J2EE • VBA  • Azure Cloud, Microsoft Share Point Portal • jQuery, JavaScript • DEVELOPER 2000 (Oracle)  • Windows NT, 2003 - 2016, VMWare • HTML, HTML 5 • DB 2.0, FoxPro, CLIPPER 5.3