Technical Lead Technical Lead Technical Lead - Hexaware Technologies McLean, VA Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Technical Lead Hexaware Technologies - McLean, VA September 2015 to Present Client: Freddiemac  Description:  Single security is the platform for seller/Document custodians/Freddiemac users to create contract/loans. We mainly concentrate on the seller portion. With this platform freddiemac provides products/features to the sellers. Sellers will create contracts and assign loans to it and there is an approval process needs to be done by freddimac the whole process is supported by this platform.    Technologies:  Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, spring, jQuery, Maven, HTML, JavaScript.    Responsibilities:  • I am responsible for implementing business requirements.  • My responsibilities include the initial research, planning and managing the project, design the solution and writing and executing on a spec. Software Developer Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2009 to August 2015 Client: Allstate Insurance Company  Description:  MMA Dispatching: Master Member Application is in house dispatch application to process dispatches for various partners based on the calls received from the customers as part of the roadside assistance  STARS: Submit to Allstate Roadside Services application is a dispatch request application, which is used by partners like Enterprise, Alamo, National Dollar and Thrifty. Customer representatives (CSR) of these partners' uses this application to create dispatch requests which in turn be processed by MMA application. STARS application provides the ability for CSR to create Roadside assistance requests for services like Towing, Fuel, Lock Out, and updates the MMA master database  BAM: Business Administration Management Tool is designed to drive MMA application as per the partner specific call flow.    Technologies:  Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring, Restful Web Services, Jersey, WebSphere Server, HTML, JavaScript, Bing and MapQuest API.    Client: Broadcom  Description:  The Confluence system in Broadcom must synchronize with the Confluence system in Renesas so the users will have a unified system and sync up data between two systems export the content from Renesas confluence system over a period of one week and import the content to Broadcom confluence system. Migration ensures that the data from the source must match with the data in the destination system.  Technologies:  Java, Confluence collaboration tool, Apache POI    Client: Belkin  Description:  Belkin has consumer products like Smart Wi-Fi, EA6900, EA6700 and the application supports the Belkin consumer's guide for suitable products, providing technical assistance and purchasing products by providing navigation links to Belkin store.    Technologies:  Java, Fatwire, JSP, Servlets, Ajax, JSON, WebSphere, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Exact target API, Fast Search API.    Responsibilities:  • I was responsible for analyzing and implementing the requirements.  • I designed the data migration to confluence system.  • Conducted a statistical analysis to deepen the understanding of existing framework and layout draw backs and I was responsible for redesign the existing framework and present to end user. Software Developer Lab vantage Solutions - Kolkata, West Bengal October 2007 to December 2008 Client: Quintiles  Description:  Quintiles application is used as Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS). Quintile maintains life cycle of blood samples taken from the patients. Sapphire product has the features to maintain workflow of the samples. Quintile has provided services to communicate with Quintiles system. We have developed web service client with Apache client.    Technologies:  Java, Apache web service client, JSP, HTML, Advanced Java Script.    Client: Bausch & Lomb  Description:  Bausch & Lomb application is used as Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS). Web-services are used to integrate with the client application. Bausch & Lomb maintains materials from different locations. They need to maintain workflow of the samples. Lab vantage is having the sapphire product to support any workflow. Sometimes we need to contact quintiles data; it is done from web service implementation. WSDL file will be provided by the client. Client is developed by apache Axis. Entire Bausch & Lomb material samples workflow is maintained.    Technologies:  Java, Apache web service client, JSP, HTML, Advanced Java Script.    Responsibilities:  • I was in the team that was responsible for developing product features.  • My Responsibilities include initial planning, design and implement product features. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jsp, Servlets Additional Information Technical Skills:    • Programming Technologies: Java  • Programming Technologies Front end: Html, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, Ajax, Angular  • Frameworks: Spring, Struts, Restful API, Hibernate, Webservices  • Database: Oracle, MySQL, DB2  • Application Servers: WebLogic, WebSphere, Tomcat  • Version Control: Git, SVN