Mobile Tech Lead Mobile Tech Lead Mobile Tech Lead - Globant / Royal Caribbean LTD Work Experience Mobile Tech Lead Globant / Royal Caribbean LTD - Miami, FL 2018 to Present Oversee development and maintenance of Royal Caribbean iOS application within an Agile Environment.  ? Collaborate with a high functioning team to assist in application maintenance, bug fixes, code reviews, and multiple enhancements.  ? Drive implementation protocols for oAuth2 along with coding strategies to better secure mobile clients.  ? Create and implement service architecture and caching strategies to improve application resiliency.  ? Work directly with clients to explore business ideas through creation of multiple POCs including Wayfinding, Messenger, and virtual reality.    SELECT ACCOMPLISHMENT  ? Designed and developed secure framework with 2 junior iOS developers through creation of user stores and estimations for both iOS and Android platforms resulting in exceeding deadlines and delivering a high-quality and secure framework. Senior iOS Developer Globant / Royal Caribbean LTD - Miami, FL 2017 to 2018 Manage a high functioning team of two to create a secure framework and process mobile payments.  ? Effectively integrated multiple payment types including Apple Pay and AliPay into the mobile application.  ? Communicated high profile information to senior leadership through periodic meetings.  ? Drove the creation of user stories for sprints based on business roadmapping and overall strategic vision.    SELECT ACCOMPLISHMENT  ? Collaborated with security team to analyze multiple issues and concerns with security across mobile platforms, resulting in implementation of keychain interface, SSL Pinning, and creation of tutorials and summaries of best practices for developers program wide.  ? Successfully decreased API failure rate due to oAuth2 protocol to 0%. Lead iOS Developer Macate - Miramar, FL 2015 to 2017 Drove design and development of multiple mobile software for the iOS platform including    ? IOME - A secure IP-based telecommunication solutions including secure login, voice mail, call forwarding, call transfer, conference calling with 7 users, and end to end encryption.  ? JustSync - Wi-Fi IP Audio Delivery System including live audio streaming, support for 12 channels, lock screen support, customer UI and animations, and compatibility with older iOS devices.  ? Drove maintenance of live applications in collaboration with multiple team members including bug fixes and feature enhancements.  ? Cemented quality, performance, and responsiveness of multiple applications.  ? Developed a cross platform framework with C++ and OpenCV to better generate and scan markers for iOS, Android, Linux, and Windows.  ? Trained and mentored team members on best programming practices.  ? Assisted in the maintenance of code quality, documentation, and wireframes. Lead Developer Watodoo LLC - Miami, FL 2012 to 2015 Developed a native iOS application utilizing multiple frameworks including Parse, Stripe, UIKIT, Core Image, and SocialFramework.  ? Successfully integrated Parse including applications to handle user management, messaging systems, privacy settings, and milestone deadlines.  ? Oversaw web and graphic team to better achieve milestone deadlines. Developer Trecertapps App Publishing 2012 to 2013 Implemented GUI for Dwarven Chess including creation of game design documents, implemented GUI, and assisted on creation of assets and documentation. IT Consultant - Software Development United Martial Arts Academy - Android App - Miami, FL 2008 to 2012 Ensured multiple contract work including iOS and Android application development, web design and development, and graphic design.    SELECT PROJECTS  ? United Martial Arts Academy - Android App - Created a hybrid application utilizing a mix of native Android code, JavaScript, JQUERy, and HTML.    ? Travelport.tv - Samsung TV App - Developed an application using JavaScript and Samsung TV API streaming HD videos allowing users to watch HD videos about travel spots around the world.    ? Seventh Heaven - Created for an online coding challenge hosted by Samsung to create an application that promotes and spreads happiness. Education TECHNOLOGY PROFILE Full Sail University Skills IOS, INTEGRATION, DOCUMENTATION, PROCESS MANAGEMENT, PROBLEM SOLVING, MENTORING, TRAINING, PROCESS IMPLEMENTATION, RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT Links http://linkedin.com/in/adelabdelmaseih Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    Communication Skills * Team Collaboration * Written and Oral Communication * Team Leadership & Management * Analytical Skills * Problem Solving Skills * Relationship Management * Agile Development * Process Management * Training & Mentoring * Decision Making * Technical Solutions * Process Implementation * Continuous Integration * iOS Development * Team Development * Skilled Documentation