Senior Database Developer Senior Database <span class="hl">Developer</span> Database Developer - Quorum Business Solutions Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Developer Quorum Business Solutions - Houston, TX March 2018 to Present - Primary work on SQL queries, stored procedures and utilize SQL Server and SSRS to design and develop reports and data components supporting the analysis and interpretation of data.  - Works with SMEs and project lead to analyze complex requirements and establish needed data structure changes to the existing database.  - Identify data assumptions, known issues and transformations to convert the source data into the new target data model. Software Developer WEATHERFORD INTERNATIONAL - Katy, TX December 2017 to March 2018 - Develop back-end C# API for wellbore schematic, wellbore validation, and several other upstream well service management features such as work-over activities management and well configuration.  - Participate in designing and developing new schema for MS SQL Server and SQLite.  - Migrate upstream drilling/completion/work-over data from production system to new analytical platform.  - Support, maintain, and update current Catalog Service database in SQLite for wellbore equipment data.  - Provide advice and support to Services and Support team on customers' Change and Support Requests related to well services and database management. Software Engineer III @ Weatherford International SUPERIOR GROUP - Houston, TX May 2017 to December 2017 - Develop back-end C# API in Entity Framework for both MS SQL Server and SQLite, code first and database first.  - Participate in designing and developing new schema for MS SQL Server and SQLite as well as data migration tools.  - Design, develop, and support Well Service Manager (WSM) software for support and enhancement requests.  - Support, maintain, and update current Catalog Service database in SQLite for managing all wellbore equipment data. Product Line Engineer WEATHERFORD INTERNATIONAL - Katy, TX August 2013 to December 2016 - Manage and support physical and logical schema of three MS SQL Server based software products focusing on upstream well services workflows, wellbore schematic, and wellbore equipment catalog data management.  - Help reduce the workload for Support and Development by analyzing requirements and provided detailed impact analysis on both internal and external requests for all three products globally.  - Create, support, and enhance complex T-SQL queries, views, functions, stored procedures, indexes, and triggers.  - Recognized as "Gate-Keeper" and primary point of contact for well services reference and wellbore equipment data.  - Maintain the wellbore equipment master catalog data quality control and monitor the database for acceptable level of completeness and accuracy by integrating, mapping, and cleansing data from different catalog sources to eliminate redundancy and duplicates. Worked with other manufacturers to acquire physical specification to ensure the catalog up to date.  - Provide advice and support to Services team on customers' Change and Support Requests.  - Resolve drilling, completion, and well configuration data issues including data modeling, data mapping, data imports and updates.  - Design physical and logical schema in MS SQL Server 2014 and SQLite 3 for production optimization and wellbore equipment data management applications.  - Work with product management and Services delivery to devise, initiate, and implement improvements that increase efficiency, enhance productivity, and/or expand capability of the products.  - Research, recommend, and participate in developing solutions to enable the products to comply with industry standard such as PPDM or WITSML. Software Deployment Engineer WEATHERFORD INTERNATIONAL - Houston, TX May 2008 to August 2013 - Dedicated resource to provide software engineering, services, and support on production optimization (LOWIS) and well service data management (WSM) software suite for Chevron North America business units (Mid Continent and Gulf of Mexico).  - Implement, system prepare, and data cleansing for four major system upgrades and new releases.  - Install, configure, test, enhance, and customize the database while troubleshooting and resolving technical issues, especially those related to data integration, mapping, and cleansing.  - Train end users in the product features and functionality.  - Produce test cases to facilitate quality assurance.  - Coordinate development and support efforts of the product residing in the North America business units for Chevron.  - Provide technical support to project managers on planning, executing, and closing of the upgrade projects. Programmer PAULIN RESEARCH GROUP - Houston, TX June 2007 to May 2008 Developed piping stress analysis and reporting software gathering and using a wide array of data using VB6. Devised grid display application adopted by company as framework for PLC software. Education Master of Science in Information System and Business Analytics University of Phoenix - Houston, TX November 2015 to April 2018 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Houston - Houston, TX January 2004 to May 2008 Associate of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Houston Community College - Houston, TX June 2002 to December 2003 Skills Software Design & Development, Database Engineering, Requirements Gathering, Data Integration, Software Diagnostics, Product Documentation, Database Management, Database Analysis, Data Analysis (8 years), MS SQL Server (2005/2008/2012/2014/2016), T-SQL, MS Access. (10+ years), SQLite (4 years), C, C++, VB Script, VB (4 years), C#, Web Service, Web API, HTML, XML, JavaScript (2 years), Entity Framework (code first and database first), .NET (5 years), IIS (6/7/8) (8 years), Windows Server (2003/2008/2012) (9 years), Perforce (10+ years), TFS (1 year) Additional Information Technical professional with over 10 years of experience in MS SQL Server database technology, C# and .NET software development and engineering. Proven ability to design, program, test, implement, and upgrade database systems and applications. Possessing extensive knowledge of upstream well service management workflows, data requirements, wellbore equipment catalog data, and wellbore schematic application development. Experience with customer engagement, application deployment and support. Exposure with project planning, project sizing, effort estimation, and cost estimation.    Technical Skills  Core Competencies: Software Design & Development, Database Engineering, Requirements Gathering, Data Integration, Software Diagnostics, Product Documentation, Database Management, Database Analysis, Data Analysis.  Legacy Languages: C, C++, VB Script, VB.  Web Technology: C#, Web Service, Web API, HTML, XML, JavaScript.  Database: MS SQL Server (2005/2008/2012/2014/2016), T-SQL, SQLite, MS Access.  Platform/Technology: Entity Framework (code first and database first), .NET, IIS (6/7/8).  Operating System: Windows Server (2003/2008/2012).  Repository/Version Control: TFS, Perforce.