Consultant/ Developer Consultant/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Consultant/ Developer - Self Employed Manteca, CA C, C, and C++  HTML, Javascript, JQuery, PHP, MySQL    Development environments have include XCode, Aptana, Visual Studio Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant/ Developer Self Employed - Manteca, CA January 2002 to Present Developed 5 iPhone apps, from games to music to sports applications. Two of the apps, Piano Balls and Tiny Puzzle, utilize the Cocos2d public domain library for animation and  system independence. The other apps were developed using only the iOS frameworks and were written in Objective-C.    Designed and created a number of websites and applications, most in the area of sports  tournament management. The latest is a site I've been working on for the past 2 years  called, "SIN" (ShuffleboardInformationNetwork.com). SIN is used by the USA Table  Shuffleboard community to manage player and tournament info, stats.    The SIN website was built using Javascript/JQuery, PHP, and mySQL. The SQL  database has serviced a number of apps and websites over the past 10 years, and offers a clean, RESTful API for easily querying and updating the database.    If you are considering me for this job, this is worth a look as it should clearly demonstrate  my proficiency in javascript/jQuery, php, and sql. Some of the other products produced    since 2002 are listed at the end of this resume.    Aladdin Knowledge Systems Santa Clara CA Sr. Software Engineer April 2000 to December 2002 Developed a series of applications, allowing users to download applications from the Web for trial usage. Our biggest client was Adobe, but also included other smaller  companies. There were approximately 20-25 programmers spread out in Aladdin's  offices, from CA to Chicago to Israel. I worked with some brilliant encryption  developers. As application developer, I wrote the vast majority of the code.    Code was written for OSX in C++. Sr Software engineer HearMe Mountain View CA - Mountain View, CA January 1997 to April 2000 I was originally working at a company called "AudioTalk" that was quickly purchased by  "Hearme". We developed Voice Over IP (VOIP). The software managed moderated chat, phone calls, and supporting software. I wrote the vast majority of the application side of  the products. Code was written for Mac and PC's in C++. Consultant/ Developer Suzetti Software Cupertino CA - Cupertino, CA November 1995 to January 1997 Suzetti Software was a resurrection of a company I had started back in 1980 in New  York. During this time I consulted for Acuson where I was the technical lead, implementing software to drive and configure ultrasound machines. Coding included an  intelligent/automatic customized U/I generator, database management, and networking of medical and patient information. Code was written for DOS in C and C++.    Another contract included MediaLive in San Jose, where I implemented front ends for web browsers, using Spyglass code. The main project involved a browser designed  specifically for hotels chains in Europe. This project was written in C++ for the Mac.    During this time I also developed two shareware programs. The first was "It's About  Time", a calendar and personal information manage. The second was Alley 19, a bowling  game, which went on to be purchased by Starplay Productions. The second version of that program was developed using professional artists, actors, and 5 original sound tracks  created by professional musicians.    Both of these applications were written in C++ on the Mac (OS 9). Manager Sunburst Communications Mountain View CA - Mountain View, CA July 1993 to November 1995 Managed a group of 15, including programmers, artists, and designers, in the Los Altos  office of a New York based developer of educational software. Duties included tracking  and scheduling of 5-10 concurrent projects, tutoring, personnel management, reviews, etc. Personally developed Media Collage, a multimedia authoring tool for students. Sr Software engineer ShareVision/Creative Labs - San Jose, CA January 1991 to July 1993 Designed and developed OnSight, a videophone application for the Macintosh. OnSight  includes video conferencing, shared whiteboards, 3rd party application sharing, phonebook management, record/playback, and other features that support point to point  teleconferencing over standard phone lines (POTS). The package was released in March  of 1993 and is now sold by Creative Labs.    OnSight was written in C and C++ for the Mac and PC. VP Research & Development Interactive Solutions, Inc - Mount View, WI June 1989 to February 1991 Developed a multimedia presentation application for the Mac. The program, OnStage, features complete paint tools, animation, video, and sound capabilities. A visual  programming language allows the user to construct complex interactive presentations.    OnStage was written in C for the Mac.    3Comm Santa Clara CA Sr. Software Developer Intelligentics / Intellicorp - Mount View, WI March 1987 to May 1989 VP Research & Development May 1985 to February 1987 Responsible for all facets of design, implementation, and maintenance of molecular biology  software tools. Managed a group of 10 programmers. Responsible for project management and scheduling of three large projects. Instructed classes in C++ and software architecture design.  Involved in all facets of development, marketing, and distribution of PC/Gene, a PC based  program for analysis of DNA and protein sequences. Instrumental in the negotiations and acquisition of a 16 million dollar contract with the National Institute of Health to distribute  GENBANK, a world-wide distributed database of molecular sequences. Owner/President Useable Software, Inc March 1981 to March 1985 Designed and implemented various parts of the IBM PC program, Homebase. The  program included database, communications, DOS shell, calendar, word processing, and calculator applications and was published by Amber Systems, Inc.    Designed and wrote software to control a blood analyzing unit. The system included an MS DOS shell that provided multitasking for up to 16 time critical processes. The  software was sold by Syva of Palo Alto.    Developed a data encryption and security system for a voice synthesis system on the IBM  PC for Logical Business Machines.    Developed VisiGraph ///, a spreadsheet/business graphics program, and Wrap Run, a lease analysis program for the PC.    Developed numerous other products from sophisticated financial and accounting  packages to business graphics and animation packages. Clients included Kidder Peabody, Chemical Bank, Popular Mechanics Magazine, NBC, and Visicorp. OPM Leasing Svs Inc - New York, NY December 1977 to January 1981 Developed numerous programs as part of a complete lease analysis system. Ultimately  led a team of 4 programmers, running all aspects of the IT department. Education Mathematics SUNY at Stony Brook - Stony Brook, NY 2000 to Present Skills Javascript, MYSQL, PHP, Git