Architect and principal developer Architect and principal <span class="hl">developer</span> Architect and principal developer - Bank of New York Mellon, Palo Alto San Francisco Bay Area, CA Looking for challenging and exciting opportunities in Bay area. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Architect and principal developer Bank of New York Mellon, NY - Palo Alto, CA July 2014 to Present Environment: JAVA/J2EE, Oracle, spring, Spring Boot microservices, Liferay, alfresco, activiti, wso2, tomcat, Docker, elastic search, Python, BXP internal cloud.    As an architect designed and implemented SBAOne, SmartDocs (document custody) and Billing projects. The projects follows scrum and agile development process. SBAOne is using liferay portal and spring-boot microservices to provide services to create loans. Used Agile and Test Driven Development (TDD) to provide reliable development. SmartDocs Document custody has developed using angularJS and microservices. All document and collateral data are is loaded using elastic to provide faster responses to UI. Adapted SCRUM for agile development to actively managed scrum to track the development. Implemented services using micro services architecture and integrated with large data using elasticsearch. As a document custodian process have implemented imaging of mortgage documents of customers using IBML and KOFAX scanners using spring schedulers. Billing project has been designed using microservices and angularJS. The business rules implemented using DROOLS and spring expression language (SPEL) to identify the billable transactions. Continuous build and deployment has done using Jenkins and pipeline and deployed to Nexen and BXP cloud environment. Senior Consultant Compuvision consulting(NY), BOA(NY), DB(NJ) October 2013 to July 2014 Environment: JAVA/J2EE, Oracle, Coherence, spring, spring integration and data, oracle, Maven    At Deutsche Bank, worked on SWEET MBS front office trading application, passthru CMO and RFQ's from DealerWeb, Tradeweb and Bloomberg. Designed and implemented trade and price services to capture trades from Dealerweb and Tradeweb systems. Developed an independent pricing service using Tangosol coherence cache, java and hibernate JPA to get auto pricing from dealerweb and tradeweb channels and apply matrix pricing based on liquid and illiquid rules.Implemented services using java multithread to load Automated LET auto allocation process for Passthru and CMO desks using LET batch allocations file.Working on capturing dealerweb prices for EOD using dealweb API using java and FIX protocol. Involved in development of E-trading STP flow of tradeweb and dealer web systems.    At Federal Reserve bank, the Fedwire Securities is the premier securities transaction service that provides cost-effective safekeeping, transfer and delivery-versus-payment settlement services with flexible account structures and automated claim adjustment processing features. This service allows your institution to transfer and maintain securities in a secure and reliable electronic environment and features critical services as issuance, transfer and settlement.Developed interface services to process incoming factor, securities data files and send to various endpoint systems using MQ and FTP transfer.Involved in developing Fedwire security admin processes to control batch jobs and message queues.    At Bank of America, worked on eBlotter and TEA credit capture front and middle office application to handle CDS(Credit derivative swaps) STP flows and integration with dealer brokers ICE, GFI, IDB and ICAP etc. Developed services using xmlbeans and JAXB to process XML requests and Bloomberg VCON E-trading application for credit swap and index trading using Tibco RV messaging and spring JMS messaging, inversion control and AOP for Icelink A=C and C=C STP flows. Developed java process and publishing messages to MQ using JMS for Dodd-Frank Regulatory Reporting and Mandatory clearing of OTC derivatives.Created flow process to handle bulk clearing and compression trades from Icelink and ICAP using in memory queues and multi-threading. Lead developer Citigroup New York May 2004 to October 2013 Environment: JAVA/J2EE, Python, sonic MQ, Apache CXF, Weblogic, spring, Ibatis, Linux, Perforce, Eclipse, Maven, ANT, oracle, sybase, mule, TIBCO EMS, RV, Business Works, GemFire, MQ-Series, subversion, Maven    Trade processing services (TPS) is robust distributed cross platform system developed at Citigroup with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) concepts to process all product type (MBS (CMO, TBA, Pool and Options), FINANCE (regular and buyback) and PRIME BROKER (mortgages, corporate and treasury) of fixed income trades. Tibco business workflow BPM is used for workflow and MQ and tibco EMS used for external system communication. Design and implemented web services using mule and spring frameworks and developed workflows using TIBCO Business Works and published messages in MQ-Series and RV (Rendezvous) messaging for external trade distribution. Configured and maintained pub/sub in EMS and Tibco and developed PL SQL database objects using hibernate.  Supported corporate desk trading flows and implemented J2ee/C++ services for post trade flows. Sr. Programmer Freddie Mac and Verizon(VA) August 2002 to May 2004 Environment: JAVA/J2EE, C++, Orbix, VisiBroker, IREP/MQ Series, PERL, Shell Scripts, SUN Solaris, AIX    Worked on NIMFEST (Net Interest Margin Forecast & Earning) cashflow engine to generate weekly and monthly balance report at Freddie Mac. Developed server side process for asset and liability instrument data that represents the corporate balance sheet structure as a given date and forecasting the amount of cash being received and spent by business during a defined period of time.Developed Analytical services on mortgage cash flow of balance forecast and implemented stored procedures to load mortgage instrumental data.Developed CORBA Local and Carrier Pre-Order services for Verizon to process the order transactions. Designed and Developed LSIC server using JAVA, J2EE to send a XML based Transaction requests to backend via MQ series messaging. Sr. Prog. Analyst YANTRA(MA), Telcordia Technologies June 1998 to July 2002 Environment: C++, JAVA, JSP, XML, Servlets, HTML, CORBA, Oracle, Pro*C, PL/SQL, XTP, AIX, SCCS, Servlets, Java Script, VisiBroker CORBA, Oracle 8.0, Sybase, unix, sablime    At Yantra, worked on shipmentment and tracking application for Motrola. Develop new PL/SQL Packages, Stored procedures and Triggers to download and upload the orders, vendors and customers into DCS system and implemented flex field mapping for inventory and receipts download/upload to/from DCS system.    At Telcordia, Implemented server side modules using C++, java and XTP internal API and integrated using Orbix and visibroker naming service for ASMS/AIN project. Developed SQL manager process using PRO *C/C++ to access the data from Remote SPACE database. Developed installation scripts using SQL and shell scripts. Supported applications in production and test environments.    At AT&T, Developed server side components using C++, JAVA and CORBA and migrated C++ CGIs to servlets for Internet Reservation System (IRES/INET). Implemented stored procedures using PL/SQL to get the reservation data. Software Developer Computer Horizons, Sliverline industries June 1997 to June 1998 Environment: C++, VisualBasic, Oracle7.2, SQLLoader, HP-UNIX, Windows  Worked on toolset to analyze the the C++, visual basic code and generated discovery statistics reports with details of year 2000 code issues. Analyzed and implemented year 2000 non compliant pivot logic on various date patterns. worked on database modules and shell scripts for year 2000 non compliance.    Experience in INDIA Software Engineer Enexco teknologies August 1993 to April 1997 Environment: Windows NT, Visual Basic 4.0 with Oracle 7.3, MS-Access, ODBC, OLE, Crystal reports, MS-Windows 3.1, C++, Genesis and TIL Shell, MS-DOS, C. 8751 microcontroller    Worked at ENEXCO Teknologies in India on Mobicom, Rotonet and Fuzzy Expert at Enexco and installed the products various cements plants. Involved in configuring and fine tuning the application.Implemented the reports using crystal reports. At Hindustan Aeronautics LTD, developed code for spread spectrum communication waveforms based on incoming serialized generated data from 8751 microcontroller for joystick cursor data. Worked as a principal support engineer at LCC. Education Bachelor's degree in Engineering in Engineering Nagarjuna University Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, JPA, Spring, Spring BOOT micro services, Jaxb, Database, Ms sql server and Sybase, Oracle, Sql, Sybase, C/c++, Docker, Git, Json, Middleware, Python, Svn Additional Information Technical skills    Core Technologies: JAVA/J2EE, SOAP, WEB services. C/C++. XML/JSON  Frameworks: Spring suite, Spring Boot microservices, Python, Hibernate, jpa, iBatis, Mule, CXF, XMLBEANS, JaxB, open source frameworks, AngularJS, TDD  Middleware: TIBCO EMS, RV, MQSeries, Gemfire, Sonic MQ, Oracle Coherence, Business Works, Elastic search, kafka, Active MQ, CORBA, WebLogic, MongoDb, Elastic search.  Database: Oracle RAC, Sybase and MS SQL server.  Others: NodeJS, apache, . SVN, Git, CVS, Perforce, Eclipse, Maven, Docker, Ant, UNIX/Linux/Windows, Shell, Continuous integration and Continuous Delivery (CICD), DevOps