Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Houston, TX I'm all about enthusiasm and genuine interest - in science & technology, and using knowledge-based solutions to help colleagues. I have 10 years in the software developer area. I thrive best when focused-on / challenged-in domains in which I am most comfortable which are technical - systems design & implementation. I have the ability to grow with a job, handle responsibility and build positive relationships with work colleagues at all levels.  I like working on challenging projects which is why I enjoy being dedicated to every assignment given to me. Moreover, I have experience with technical skills: SAP BAPI, BADI, Smartforms, Enhancements, C/C++, .Net, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, Custom Web Parts, WCF, LINQ.Net Framework, REST APIs, JQuery, JSON Oracle, Informix, Postgres SQL and MySQL, Ajax, WinForms, WPF, Visual Basic 6.0, HTML, Java (J2EE), JavaScript PHP Development, .Net, SQL Server, Work Experience Software Developer Hotel Double Tree - Houston, TX May 2018 to July 2019 Application developer(java) for the DoubleTree Hotel. I worked with middleware, backend applications. Worked on web services WSDL's and XML's using SOAP over http. Developed user interface GUI's using different web components(JSP's, servlets, HTML, Javascript, XML). Developed code using java for middle-ware in connecting the front-end and back-end(database).. Implemented methodologyJ2EE.  Database  Responsible for Java and PL/SQL API development:  • T-SQL programming, including stored procedures, user defined functions and triggers  • Development of secure and efficient dynamic SQL code  • Table and index partitioning  • CLR Stored Procedure development  • Data modeling  • Analyzing requirements and documenting use cases  • Code revisions and rewrites    Modify Lost found Project in ONQ System  Responsible to modify de layout and Screen on ONQ(Housekeeping System):  • AngularJS. bootstrapper, object-oriented, class defined, single inheritance  • Jenkins. AccuRev, CVS, Subversion, Git, Mercurial, Perforce, TD/OMS, ClearCase and RTC  • Hibernate. Hibernate ORM ,Hibernate Annotations.Hibernate EntityManager Mobile Application Developer Clockspot - Houston, TX January 2018 to May 2018 I developed. The time module of the Payroll application. I add a plus to the application through the following layers in Xamarin:  User Interface. App Layer. Business Layer. Data Access Layer. Data Layer.  Debugged recently added features and minor UI inconveniences as they arose.  • Worked with a designer to add new view layouts and make existing views more user-friendly.  • Added several features from iPhone side of the app to Android as well (e.g., visually compare length of different payroll options).  • Contact info available on request.    Modify Payroll Procedure SYSCO System.  Responsible to modify Payroll procedure in SYSCO with PHP technology.  • Drupal, PHP and Zend, Cake, Data structures and algorithms. MVC, OOPS. Developer Software DYNAMIC GLASS - Houston, TX November 2017 to January 2018 - ABAP Reports (ALV, Screen Painter, Menu Painter)  - ABAP OOP Developer (class, inheritance and interface)  - Forms (SapScript, SmartForms)  - Extensions (BADIS, Screen Exits, Enhancements Spot)  - Funcional Modules (BAPIS, Conversion Exits, RFC Básico, entre otros)  - Data Base (data elements, structures, Tables)    Project WEB SITE  Implementation of critical mission systems for industrial division. (ERP/CRM -C#, ASP.NET, SQL Server) Developer Software BYRNE METALS - Houston, TX March 2015 to October 2016 -Involved in developing, testing and deploying of web application.  -Extensively used agile methodology to get updated with team and participated in Sprint planning, story sizing and retrospective meetings.  -Used JQuery, HTML and CSS for the development of UI.  -Built MVC structure using Struts framework.  -Used XML configuration to configure Sprint MVC and dependency injection.  -Used SQL databases to check inserted data and developed queries to get data from different tables.  -Used Tomcat application server to test the changes locally.  -Worked on the JAVA Collections API for handling the data objects in business layers.  -Used JSP to create presentation layer.  -Wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Utilities in PL/SQL to query the database  -Developed the Java Code using Eclipse as IDE.  -Implemented test cases using JUnit.  -Developed test cases, to test each class as part of unit testing.  -Created documentation when new process created for team reference.  -Created API in C++ for connection connectivity with transactional web.  -Created Objects in AngularJS. For data validation. bootstrapper, object-oriented, class defined, single inheritance Developer Software TENARIS April 2010 to February 2015 Migrating a service management system to SAP SR3, with API connection to satellite information system made in .NET, WinForms, Oracle, SQL Server.  DLS and BAPI: Development DLS and BAPI to migrating data of Oracle and SQL Server.  Development in Smartforms: Forms development for decision making of financial operations based on the gross product of the company.  Development Of Forms: Forms in ASP .NET (MS SQL Server, HTML / CSS / AJAX / JavaScript), WinForms to show decisions the financial data system takes in SAP R3.  With the start of production of this project achievement, operations capture, process and produce financial information necessary for users to make informed decisions.    - Interruptions System Development. Displays all interrupts of state machines of the plant.  C # and C ++: Development API to display data of machines and instruments that came off status of PLC and SLD.  SQL Server: Storing data from the API.  ASP.NET/ XML/ HTML / CSS / AJAX / JavaScript: Development of form to display the status of the machines and instruments of the plant.  Goal was to save the state of the machines (values of registers and flags) and from there establish the maintenance plan.    - Bitacora. Application to record all the justifications of interruptions that were made in the plant.  WinForm: Forms development to proceed to impute interruptions.  SQL Server: Store data for its objections.  ASP.NET/ XML/HTML / CSS / AJAX /JavaScript: Form showing the justifications for interruptions plant.  With this application we can know the cause of what caused the interruption. Developer Software Tesis - Orinoco Iron. Edo. Bolivar - VE 2004 to 2010 2009-10 / Re-engineering of System Project for truck weigh station  Detection of failures and corrections.  M.V.C. Y P.O.O / NET / C# / SQL Server / Visual Basic / XML.  PHP/ MYSQL / MS SQL Server / HTML / CSS / AJAX / JavaScript.  Goal was achieved. Improved response time visualization and SQL Server trigger. Administration and Development of System of Mandoc 2008 to 2008 09/Instrumentation Engineering  Development of Plans  AutoCAD, BluePrint. Implement electric plans on the ground.  Administration and Development of System of Mandoc (Industrial System of Plains)  Administration and Development of System of Interruption Tavsa  M.V.C. Y P.O.O / NET/ C AND C# / SQL Server / Visual Basic / J2EE / servlets / EJB / JSP / http and html / JavaScript / struts / hibernate. Administrator of applications web server and transactions July 2006 to August 2007 2007-08/Analysis and development of payroll service and payment for suppliers for the clients of the bank through the site of internet banking. Administrator of applications web server and transactions. (Development of web application under the design: J2EE / J2SDK 1.4.2. Jsp, Servlets y EJB. HTML/ JavaScript. Tools of development JDeveloper 10g. Server WEB Apache. Server of applications Orion 2.0.1. Databases/drivers Oracle 9i / PL SQL. Linux Redhat)    2006-07/ UML, VMC. Development of Web Services, Intranet and Web site (http://www.bauxilum.com.ve). Analysis and development Services Project. J2EE Architecture/ J2SDK 1.4.2. Jsp, Servlets and EJB. HTML/JavaScript. Development Tools IBM WebSphere. Database/Informix. Linux Red Hat. Development Open Source [Php, MySQL, Linux]. Quality Norm 2004 to 2005 Development of Methodology MVC, Activity: Development of software Web Site (http://www.blessedmusic.com.ve), (http://www.optiglass.com)Re-Engineering of Services of Register of Rif. JAVA, PHP, MYSQL, APACHE Analyst Semisenior I S.I.D.O.R. IST. CONSULTING. Edo. Bolivar - VE 2003 to 2004 Developer of Software and Projects Site (Financial Balance module, software, Server Client). Commercial Site (Flash module, dispatch, orders, stock, software server client). Administration in the commercial site Database, SIPCA project under SEI module (Print System). (Development of graphics web applications in ASP, Chart FX and JavaScript, with Data Drivers SQL. Server 2000 Analysis services 8.0 (Multidimensional Databases) and (Powerdesigner 9.0) Systems Analyst CARONI BANK. Edo. Bolivar - VE 2002 to 2003 Webmaster (Portal administration, web developer and Databases Administration of C.A.D.I.V.I., and developer of SQL, HTML, JAVASCRIPT and CGI in PERL). Administrator of Software Transportation Company 2001 to 2002 Implementation of a software of treatment, analysis and visualization of the contracts receipts of heavy transportation. Administrator of all databases and developer (D.B.A) Systems Administration and Lab Supervisor Carabobo University May 1999 to November 1999 Supervision of audio and audiovisual instruments. Education Bachelors in Projects Management Systems Engineering "Santiago Mariño" University, Bolivar State 1996 to 2001 Skills Data migration, Data modeling, Database, Foxpro, Visual foxpro Additional Information Skills:  • Ability to analyze business process and contribute to specific projects in an efficient manner.  • Had 5 years of development in ABAP Developer.  • Solid working experience in BAPI, BADI, Smartforms, Enhancements, etc.  • Experience data migration tools like BDC, e-CATTs, LSM.  • Experience in making and preparing financial and inventory reports.  • Experience in using object-oriented programming for creating a more efficient work flow.  • Development of programs (OOP) for Projects and support.  • Ability to interact with financial/accounting departments and work in a cross-functional team.  • Demonstrated business and technical knowledge regarding software development, object oriented (OOP, UML) and associated tools.  • Highly skilled in designing, testing, methodologies and developing software to meet user needs. (JAD, LD, RAD, RUP, SCRUM).  • Well-versed in creating flowcharts and other models and database (SQL Server, Oracle, Informix, Postgres SQL and MySQL).  • Demonstrated proficiency with instructing programmers how to write the software code.  • Long-term interest in software maintenance and testing.  • Track record of documenting every aspect of the application or system.  • OnQ System Modify the Lost found procedure with technologies (AngularJS. Bootstrapper, Jenkins. Hibernate)  • Sysco System Payroll procedure (Drupal, PHP and Zend, Cake)    Technical skill.    Languages: C#, C++, WinForms, WPF, Visual FoxPro, VB6, and .NET framework with ASP.NET, Java (J2EE), PHP, HTML5/CSS/JavaScript  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux  Networking: TCP/IP, HTTP  Object Oriented: OOA/D, OOP, UML  Methodologies: JAD, LD, RAD, RUP, SCRUM.  Database: MS-SQL, Informix, Postgres SQL, MySQL, Oracle, Data Modeling, T-SQL, Stored Procedures.