Senior Software Developer and Product Management Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Product Management Senior Software Developer and Product Management - Intra Corporation Farmington, MI Seeking Position in Software Development and Machine Controls Programming. Work Experience Senior Software Developer and Product Management Intra Corporation - Westland, MI September 2008 to Present • Development and management of company software product Gagemaster, a diverse measurement and data acquisition system globally used by the big 3 automakers and their suppliers.  • Integration of various devices, drivers, interfaces, and data extraction routines, into Gagemaster based  on customer requirements.  • Interface and debug of equipment to factory automation and machinery.  • Writing and debug of PLC logic (Rockwell Studio 5000) for automated machine control.  • Development of geometric measurement formulas for data collection equipment.  • Interface with customer for design and quoting of custom application requests.  • Documentation Software Engineer Balance Technologies - Whitmore Lake, MI June 2008 to September 2008 Write custom software for component balancing equipment Controls Engineer - Department Manager Valenite - Oak Park, MI January 2003 to December 2003 • Controls Programming and Control Panel Designs (Allen Bradley, Modicon).  • Electrical and PLC logic design and debug.  • Write custom software for gauging applications (Visual Basic). Software and Controls Engineer Air Gage Co - Livonia, MI April 1989 to January 2003 • Write custom software for gauging applications, custom user interfaces and data manipulation requests.  • Development of geometric measurement formulas.  • Interface and debug of equipment to factory automation and machinery.  • Mechanical debug of gage fixtures, gage verification.  • Electrical and PLC logic design and debug (Allen Bradley, Modicon).  • Interface with customer for line up and quoting of custom application requests.  • Documentation. Education BSEE Lawrence Institute of Technology - Southfield, MI 1986 Skills Rslogix, Servo, Hmi, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C#, C++, Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql, Ms office, Installshield, Autocad, Sourcesafe Additional Information Skills Software Packages: Microsoft Visual Studio (C++, VB, C#), InstallShield, SourceSafe, AutoCAD,  RSLogix, IAI Robo Cylinder, MS Office, MS SQL Server. PLC, HMI, and servo drive configuration  software packages. Excellent mechanical and mathematical skills, good knowledge of manufacturing  processes. Vast experience integrating computer systems with machinery and devices.