Sr Software Engineer Sr <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Sr Software Engineer Clermont, FL Work Experience Sr Software Engineer Cognizant - Orlando, FL January 2018 to October 2018 - Responsible for support and maintenance of application programs for Walt Disney World Guest Studio.  • Problem analysis. Primary responsibility to perform root cause analysis of data, program, and performance issues. Create documentation of same to present to leadership along with proposed solutions.  • Improvement analysis. Performed review of sqls to determine possible enhancements for performance initiatives. Sr Software Engineer Veritude - Westlake, TX August 2015 to December 2017 - Responsible for development and maintenance of application programs for Fidelity Composition Engine (FCE).  • Mainframe App Support - Fidelity Composition Engine - Support role for ensuring continued success with the composition and delivery of investment statements and compliance letters, using ODM technical rules under ComputeGrid within IBM jZOS mainframe environment.  • Suggested and implemented performance and code maintainability improvements within data aggregation rules for customer reporting. Application Developer Specialist Walt Disney Parks & Resorts - Orlando, FL April 2004 to January 2015 - Responsible for maintaining and supporting application programs for composite application systems.  • Mainframe App Support - Central Reservation System - technical lead for team that maintained and supported mainframe application. Worked on design team to migrate system functionality from mainframe application to composite applications running in multi-tiered client/server environment.  • UI Support - Sales and Booking Client (SBC) front-end support and maintenance. Tech lead for SBC Support using Java, JSP, Struts, and WebSphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD). Designed, developed, and maintained functional changes necessary to support the application, working closely with the business contacts to ensure proper adherence to requirements and quick problem identification and solution implementation. Performed reviews and made any necessary changes to support SOX and PII requirements. Provided 24x7 oncall support user identified issues.  • Services Support - Composite application web-services support and maintenance. Reduced incident backlog by 80% by linking similar issues and finding patterns in the issues reported. Provided 24x7 customer support for user identified issues and bridge support for implementation hyper-care periods. Provided hospitality sales services support through local and managed services support phases. Software Engineer Comsys - Orlando, FL June 1998 to April 2004 - Responsible for analysis, design and development of application programs for Central Reservation System (CRS), ensuring success of composite application implementation steps.  • Tech Lead for CRS Support and Development Team  • Provided budgetary and timeframe estimates for system modification requests and ongoing support.  • Scheduled resource utilization to support multiple concurrent projects.  • Worked with user and business communities to determine project requirements.  • Created OLTP programs introducing the 'composite application' concept  • Converted from standard TIP (screen) transactions to socket (service) transactions while maintaining high level of performance (most transactions running between .1 and .25 seconds).  • Developed performance and logging tools for OLTP programs  • Designed and developed Tuxedo and CITA services to support client/server transactions into an existing legacy system.  • Maintained systems utilizing Online TIP, high-volume TIP (HVTIP), and batch programs. Education Master's Florida Institute of Technology April 2011 Bachelor's Troy State University of Montgomery December 1994 Skills Linux, Java, C, Spring, Java J2Ee, Javascript Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qtvkfm7sbaqy7dao Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zadpb-2c4sxlzzke Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.