Senior .NET Developer Senior .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior .NET Developer - Department of Housing Preservation & Development New York, NY Experienced and accomplished Information Technology professional with a great deal of expertise of 16 plus years in software industry, developing Windows and Web Based Applications on different database environments.  • Experience in complete software development life cycle (SDLC) like User Interaction, GAP Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, Deployment, Builds, Configuration and Code Management.  • Excellent Knowledge of .Net Framework 1.1/2.0/3.5/4.0 and Object Oriented Methodologies  • Expert in .NET 4.0, 3.5, 3.0, 2.0 and 1.1, Angular JS, C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, AJAX, WCF, WPF, LINQ, SQL Server 2000- 2008, IIS 5.0 and 6.0, Visual Studio 2005, 2008, 2010, 2012, Visual Source Safe and Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Good Knowledge of .NET fundamentals, .NET framework, CLR, CTS, .NET application deployment.  • Proficient of Window Forms, Windows Services, Web Forms, ASP.NET Web Services & WCF  • Experience in Creating User Controls and Custom Controls  • Expertise in OOA&D using UML  • Experience using Sharepoint 2007  • Worked on JQuery, Javascript library.  • Worked on Subsonic ORM Tool  • Excellent Knowledge on HTML 5  • Proficient in HTML, DHTML, CSS (Cascading Style Sheets), XML, XSL and XSLT  • Expertise in Database Design and Implementation of Database Objects like tables, Constraints, SQL stored procedures, CLR stored procedures, triggers, functions, views, indexes and XML features.  • Expertise in Database SQL Query tuning using SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard and Indexes.  • Proficient in Data Migration from sources like MS Access, SQL server, Text Files, Excel to SQL server 2000/2005 using SQL Server Integration Services, SQL Server 2000 Data Transformation Services.  • Extensively worked on T-SQL using Joins, Nested queries, correlated queries, common table expressions, derived tables, temporary tables, table variables, XML data type, XML schemas, remote queries using OPENROWSET and Linked servers.  • Experience with Software Development Processes & Models: Agile, Waterfall.  • Good Experience in Crystal Reports and SQL Server Reporting Services  • Managing and leading team members.  • Having good problem solving and analytical skills, highly motivated, quick learner.  • Establishing proper communication among the different delivery locations. Work Experience Senior .NET Developer Department of Housing Preservation & Development - New York, NY September 2018 to Present Project: HPDWorks  HPDWorks is a suite of web-based applications that automate housing development workflows. The users interact with HPDWorks so that the agency as a whole can obtain a uniform view of the state of housing development and be able to report on this consistently to the larger city government. HPDWorks establishes a framework so that users can record in a standard way various aspects of their housing development projects.Every user of HPDWorks has a System Role which grants access to a particular set of application pages that support building development projects.    • Responsible for requirement analysis, design and development of new requirements  • Created services and installed in service util.  • Generated Dal classes from the Dal.xml using DALCode Generator  • Developed functions utilizing Angular JS for the front-end UI. These functions are responsible for binding and presenting the values of the models to their HTML controls•  • Developed classes, wrote controllers and models. These classes are responsible for retrieving, manipulating and storing data to and from the database.  • Created Directives for validating data.  • Utilized LINQ for data retrieval.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration and Deployment in staging servers.  Environment: Angular JS, MVC, LINQ, TFS, WCF, Web API, Toad for Oracle. Electronic System - New York, NY 2012 to Present for HIV/AIDS Reporting & Evaluation (eshare)  The Electronic System for HIV/AIDS Reporting and Evaluation (eSHARE) is web-based, data reporting system developed by the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH) and used by all programs funded by the Bureau of HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control (BHIV) . Transition from a previous data system to eSHARE was completed in 2012. Currently, more than 300 funded programs at over 100 agencies report client-level data into eSHARE which allows enhanced information-sharing between programs within agencies and real-time access to demographic, services and outcomes data at the DOHMH. eSHARE has been designed with skip patterns, auto-populations, validation and update rules, and other tools to streamline and guide data entry for end users.    • Responsible for requirement analysis, design and development of new requirements  • Participated in designing and implementing WCF services.  • Created web forms using Infragistic controls.  • Extensively used JavaScript and JQuery for Client-Side Validation.  • Developed User controls to reuse throughout the application  • Created reports using SQL Server reporting services which is then exported as PDF/Excel.  • Created Stored Procedures, Views, Jobs and Functions using T-SQL.  • Created a set of stored procedures to read the CSV file and insert the data into the tables.  • Used Entity Framework and Created EDMX file and DTO's to communicate with the Database  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration and Deployment in production and staging servers.  • Created Virtual Application and Web Server to deploy the project.  • Provide maintenance and enhancements to the site.  • Created documents like User Guides and Business Required Documents.  Environment: C#, ASP.NET, Visual Studio 2012, Entity Framework, LINQ, WCF, .NET Framework 4.5, SQL Server 2012. Project Team Lead Department of Health April 2013 to August 2018 Project 1: Personnel Control System (PECOS)  The new application for positions management will replace the existing Personnel Control System (PECOS) . Pecos was built in 2006, even though many enhancements has been applied to Pecos during the years, the application still have many problems e.g. the performance level is very low, and the existing features within Pecos today do not satisfy the business needs and lack of integration with PATS.  The new application is built with latest technologies and is designed to implement all the business needs and will integrate the PATS data to new PECOS system. The new reporting features provide reconciliation and position aging report to show historical data.    • Responsible for requirement analysis, design and development of new requirements  • The web base application has built in functionality for authorization and authentication via Windows Authentication  • Angular JS is extensively used to build the Page and validate the controls  • Proposal involved ASP.NET 4.0 MVC 4 Website with MVC architecture.  • Implemented 3 Layered approach for the PECOSWebClient comprising of Web UI Layer using MVC, PECOS_Business layer for Business Logic, PECOS_persistence Layer using ADO.NET for DataAccess Layer.  • Extensively used Bootstrap for validation and design of the screens  • Designed and Implemented SQL server Tabless, Packages, Procedures and Functions in SQL Server 2012  Environment: C#, ASP.NET, Visual Studio 2013, Angular JS, MVC, Bootstrap, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2012. Senior .NET Developer Electronic System - New York, NY January 2013 to April 2013 The Population Council is an international, nonprofit, nongovernmental organization that seeks to improve the well-being and reproductive health of current and future generations around the world and to help achieve a humane, equitable, and sustainable balance between people and resources.    Project 1: Audio Computer-Assisted Self Interviewing (ACASI)  ACASI application software allows privacy and standardized interviews. It helps the participants to hear the pre-recorded questions via a headset and respond using a touch screen or key pad. ACASI application is configured for use in 13 languages and dialects, and being used in variety of disciplines and in many countries.    • Worked on extending the application to configure for new language  • Extensively used XML for the data storage, import and export.  • Closely interacted with the business users to analyze the project.  Environment: C#, ASP.NET, Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server Senior .NET Developer Department of Education - Brooklyn, NY November 2010 to August 2012 The New York City Department of Education consists of over 1, 700 schools that serve about 1.1 million students each year. New York City's public schools are managed by Chancellor Dennis Walcott under the principles of Children First: leadership, empowerment, and accountability.  Project 1: Wireless Client Configuration (WCC)  Access to NYCDOE Wireless network requires that your wireless device be properly configured with the correct wireless network settings specific to your school. The WCC (Wireless Client Configuration) application allows you to request wireless settings based on the type and operating system of your device. Instructions on how to configure wireless devices for a specific configuration are also accessible from this site. Once the user selects the school and the device type and operating system, an e-mail will be automatically sent to the user"schools.nyc.gov" Outlook mailbox.    • Worked on analysis, design and development of application.  • Developed front end GUI using ASP.NET and C#.  • Created stored procedures and functions using T-SQL.  • Used Master Pages feature in developing the web application.  • Used Telerik controls.Used JQUERY for Client Side programming.  • Created Admin module to configure new network devices.  • Created WCF services for data retrieval.  • Interacted closely with the business users to analyze the project.  • Used HTML 5 and CSS for positioning, layout, font, colors and style information for an entire web site.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration and Deployment in production and staging servers.  • Provide maintenance and enhancements to the site.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS, ASP.NET, C#, JQuery, Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server, WCF.    Project 2: Parent Teacher Association (PTA)  State Education Law requires that all public schools establish a School Leadership Team (SLT) . This application will capture the Election, SLT, Officers and Title1 school Information.  Every fiscal year each school should submit this information. The application is accessible to the Principal and to the parent Coordinator.    • Worked on analysis, design and development of application.  • Developed front end GUI using ASP.NET and C#.  • Created stored procedures and functions using T-SQL.  • Used JQUERY for Client Side programming.  • Used Master Pages feature in developing the web application.  • Used Telerik controls.Created Admin module to allow admin to submit the report on behalf of the school.  • Created reports using SQL Server reporting services  • Interacted closely with the business users to analyze the project.  • Used CSS for positioning, layout, font, colors and style information for an entire web site.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration and Deployment in production and staging servers.  • Provide maintenance and enhancements to the site.  Environment: ASP.NET, C#, JQuery, CSS, Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server, SSRS. NET Developer Electronic System - New York, NY June 2008 to September 2010 The Population Council is an international, nonprofit, nongovernmental organization that seeks to improve the well-being and reproductive health of current and future generations around the world and to help achieve a humane, equitable, and sustainable balance between people and resources.    Project 1: Audio Computer-Assisted Self Interviewing (ACASI)  ACASI application software allows privacy and standardized interviews. It helps the participants to hear the pre-recorded questions via a headset and respond using a touch screen or key pad. ACASI application is configured for use in 13 languages and dialects, and being used in variety of disciplines and in many countries.    • Working on conversion of C# 2005 .NET Framework 2.0 compact to C# 2005 .NET Framework 2.0  • Developed front end GUI using C# 2.0  • Used extensive graphic design.  • Extensively used XML for the data storage, import and export.  • Developed classes that plays .WAV sound files.  • Closely interacted with the business users to analyze the project.  • Involved in Unit Testing.  • Provided setup and installation of software in the tablet laptops.  Environment: C#, ASP.NET, Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server Senior Software Engineer Horizons Data Portal June 2007 to May 2008 Global Benchmarking Portal  Marsh is a world leader in insurance and risk consulting services. Using this Benchmark portal, Marsh provides risk management and insurance brokering solutions to Fortune 1000 companies that is spread globally. Benchmarking Portal benchmarks different modules like FINPRO, PROPERTY, CASUALITY, VCORE, EMEA etc. This tool allows Marsh to evaluate each client with respect to their peers and generate extensive report as per client's insurance needs.    • Worked on design and development of new enhancements for the application.  • Developed front end GUI using ASP.NET and ASP.NET AJAX  • Developed custom AJAX method with JavaScript methods to call web services using PageMethods  • Integrated Adobe Flash UI slider module with the application using web services  • Used Anthem controls to enhance the performance of the page response time  • Used YUI and JQuery JavaScript Library for client side programming.  • Developed User controls to reuse throughout the application  • Developed DAL and BLL using Subsonic ORM Tool.  • Developed database objects like tables, views, stored procedures in SQL Server 2005  • Created stored procedures for data aggregation and migration between disparate data sources  • Created reports using SQL Server reporting services which is then exported as PDF. Reports variables are passed from ASP.NET web pages.  • Used 3rd party controls like Dundas chart and gauge controls for enhancing the presentation of the reports  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration and deployment in Production and Staging Servers.  Environment: ASP.NET, C#, ASP.NET AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, YUI, ADO.NET, Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server 2005, SQL Reporting Services. Horizons Data Portal 1997 to 2008 The Horizons data portal is a collection of datasets and corresponding documentation from field-based, applied operations research studies in developing countries that were completed by the Population Council's Horizons program between 1997 and 2008. This data portal has been created to assist a wide variety of users in framing and answering research questions useful in directing HIV and AIDS research and policy efforts.    • Worked on analysis, design and development of data portal.  • Developed front end GUI using ASP.NET 2.0 and VB.NET 2.0  • Developed the application using 3-Tier Architecture.  • Created stored procedures and functions using T-SQL.  • Used Master Pages feature in developing the web application.  • Used Advanced controls.  • Interacted closely with the bussiness users to analyze the project.  • Used CSS for positioning, layout, font, colors and style information for an entire web site.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration and Deployment in production and staging servers.  • Provide maintenance and enhancements to the site.  • Involved in project documentation.  Environment: ASP.NET, VB.NET, Java Script, ADO.NET, Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server 2000. Senior Software Engineer Horizons Data Portal June 2006 to May 2007 ALES (Application Life Cycle Enhancement System)  ALES is a web-based application designed for Partners & Microsoft vendors. The clients can get registered to become various partners viz. Registered, Certified and Gold Certified partners. The main applications in this project are PMC (Partner Management Center), C2P2P (Customer 2 Partner, Partner 2 Partner), PLC ( Partner Learning Center), Empower. The partners can enroll from this site and avail various physical and online benefits    • Worked on Development and maintenance of the application using Asp.net, C# AND vb.net  • Worked on Localization.  • Used AJAX for some pages that do not require the postback.  • Migrated modules from .net framework 1.1 to 2.0.  • Used Javascript for various client side operations. Wrote SQL QUERIES FOR DDL and DML operations.  • Used SQL Reporting services for generating reports. Wrote store procedures, created triggers and tables.  Environment: VB.Net, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.Net, Java Script, AJAX, HTML, XML, Visual Studio.Net, SQL Server 2005, Reporting Services. Software Engineer Horizons Data Portal - Erie, PA January 2005 to May 2006 IVOICE  IVoice is a web-based application designed for the Indent Solutions. The main goal of the project is to know the client details, package taken by them, usage of the phone calls and the billing details. IVoice helps to track the valuable information, which is very important to know the status of the business. There are various levels of users like Admin, Super Admin, Manager, Customer and Reseller. It provides better facility to know the duration of phone calls, receiver and sender details, phone numbers etc. It also provides the billing details of the customer, like the payment of the bills, status of the customer and supports the exporting features.  • Created tables.  • Connected SQL Server Database in VS.NET to access data.  • Designed and developed Web Application using ASP.NET and VB.NET as code behind language.  • Wrote different ASP.NET /HTML Pages for retrieving the user information and displaying the results.  • Used UML for Database design so that to share a common language to communicate with the database team.  Environment: C#, ASP.NET, VC++, ADO.Net, Java Script, HTML, XML, Web Matrix, SQL Server 2000. Software Engineer Horizons Data Portal July 2003 to December 2005 PRO-GEN  ProGen is a CRM product for General Insurance Agents. Purpose of this product is to maintain all client data in-group wise and insurance details like insurance type, policy period, premium, sum assured, and commission. Commission calculations can be done automatically.  • Dynamic reports, static reports, charts are more useful to view information. Using Dynamic Reports we can view the selected fields' information. Commission Received, Commission Receivable, Renewal Reports are group wise and order wise. Charts are useful to view monthly commission, Max/Min commission, Total Commission received per each insurance type.  • Managed all stages of the application from design, development and unit testing, on both development and production environments  • Wrote many modules and implemented the code behind using VB.NET.  • Designed template using User controls, Designed the Forms in VB.NET.  • Used ADO.NET for connecting the database., Used Crystal Reports as a reporting tool  • Created several database objects such as Views and Stored Procedures in Oracle database.  Environment: VB.NET, ADO.Net, Java Script, HTML, Visual studio 1.1, Crystal Reports 8.0, Oracle 9i.    PRO-LIFE  The objective of this project is to maintain the client details like the insured value, the riders, premium, due dates etc. The CRM project comprises modules like agent module, client module and policy setup. The commission provided to the insurance agent is also incorporated. The reporting features include the due dates, plan details, premium details, commission received, client's birthdays, marriage anniversaries and detailed payments of the clients, pending amounts etc.    • Involved in designing the WinForms using VB.NET.  • Used .NET Controls and ActiveX controls.  • Developed User Controls to navigate the records in a form.  • Designed template using User controls.  • Wrote various validations for UserInterface.  • Used ADO.NET for connecting the database and back-end was Oracle.  Environment: VB.NET, ADO.Net, Java Script, HTML, Visual studio 1.1, Crystal Reports 8.0, Oracle 9i.    Kausalya Management Services PVT. Ltd, India  Inventory  A well-designed easy to use stock management system that handles various situations with respect to stock very effectively. Consists of a three level hierarchy with respect to items, which allows for broad categorization of items through the forms Categories, Manufacturers and items. The transaction forms include the issue and receipt of stock and the Returns Inwards and the Returns Outwards to manage sales and purchase returns. Various reports such as the Stock Availability Report, Purchase Ledger and the Stock Issue been pulled out in neat and lucrative formats.    • Analyzed the requirements for the project.  • Involved in the development of the Business Layer in VB.NET  • Implemented front end in VB.NET  • Wrote Standard Modules for Validations.  Environment: VB.NET, ADO.Net, Java Script, HTML, Visual studio 1.1, Crystal Reports 8.0, Oracle 8i.    Kapil Chit Funds Pvt. Ltd., India  Easy CHIT - ERP Package.  Easy Chit is an ERP application developed for automation of Para banking Services. Easy CHIT package automate all most all the subsystems of chit fund Management process. The list of subsystems includes forming a chit group, registering the group, scheduling auctions, maintains the auction data, maintains the subscriber information, chit group information, managing the accounts of both bank and chits.    • Analyzed the requirements for the project.  • Involved in the development of the Business Layer in VB  • Implemented front end in VB  • Wrote Standard Modules for Validations.  Environment: VB, ADO, Java Script, HTML, Visual studio 1.1, Crystal Reports 8.0, Oracle 8i. Education Master's Skills .NET (10+ years), ASP (10+ years), ASP.NET (10+ years), MS ASP (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Microsoft .NET Framework 2.0 - Web-Based Client Development. Additional Information SKILLS:  Programming Languages: C#.Net, VB.Net, C, C++, JavaScript, VB, PL/SQL, T-SQL, LINQ  Microsoft Technologies: ASP.NET, WCF, ADO.NET, Win Forms, WPF, WCF, AJAX,  Microsoft Office 2003 and 2007, COM and DCOM and COM+, IIS 5.0 and 6.0  Web Technologies: ASP.NET 4.5/4.0/3.5/2.0/1.1, AngularJS, Web API, MVC, sCSS, XML, HTML  RDBMS & Tools: Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008, MYSQL, MS Access, SQL Profiler, PostGre SQL.  Reporting Tools: Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Reports  Version Control: Visual Source Safe (VSS), Team Foundation Server [TFS]  Third-Party: Infragistics and Telerik  Languages: C, C++, VC++, HTML, Core Java, SQL, PHP.  ORM Tools: Subsonic  Scripting Language: JavaScript, VB Script, JQuery  Source Control: Visual Source Safe 6.0, Team Foundation Server.