IT Developer IT <span class="hl">Developer</span> IT Developer - BlueCross BlueShield of Florida ? Over 20 years of IT professional experience in ETL, Big data /spark, client server applications and enterprise application which includes requirements gathering, data analysis, design, development, system integration testing, deployments and documentation.  ? Expertise in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) with good knowledge on SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS).  ? Excellent working experience in Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedure, Triggers, Packages and Database design.  ? Expertise in solutions for Big data using Hadoop, Spark, Hive and Sqoop.  ? Experience in importing and exporting data using Sqoop from HDFS/Hive to Relational Database Systems and vice - versa.  ? Extensive experience in Extraction, Transformation and Loading data from various sources into Data Warehouses and Data marts with industry best practices.  ? Experience in developing, monitoring, extracting and transforming data using SSIS, Import Export Wizard and Bulk Insert.  ? Excellent knowledge in creating Databases, Tables, Stored Procedures, DDL/DML Triggers, Views, User defined data types, functions, Cursors and Indexes  ? Excellent knowledge of PowerBuilder  ? Excellent knowledge of Data Warehouse (SAP BW), EDI and SAP-XI  ? Excellent knowledge of Dimensional modeling and data analysis  ? Excellent knowledge of Multi-Dimensional STAR and Snowflakes Schema and CUBEs design.  ? Excellent knowledge of web technologies and web application design  ? Excellent analytical and problem solving skills, ability to meet deadlines and handle conflicting priorities.  ? Effective communication and customer service skills, team player. Work Experience IT Developer BlueCross BlueShield of Florida January 2007 to Present Scheduling various jobs BlueCross BlueShield of Florida January 2007 to Present Jan 2007 - Present  Responsibilities:  ? Performing software system analysis, design, development, implementation, data modeling and analysis and business process analysis.  ? Performing application development and implementation, system analysis, design, writing code, provide software support to clients, which including testing, debugging and modifying software as per the needs of the client.  ? Experience in manipulating/analyzing large datasets and finding patterns and insights within structured and unstructured data.  ? Developing SSIS Packages/scripts to extract, transfer and load data in Oracle, SQL Server.  ? Developing jobs/scripts for processing large data set using Spark, hive and Scala using various file format and compression techniques.  ? Developing jobs/scripts for migrating data using Sqoop from HDFS to Oracle/SQL Server and vice-versa.  ? Scheduling various jobs through Control-M and providing on-call support.  ? Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and strong experience in writing complex queries for Oracle.  ? Creating reports using SQL Reporting Services (SSRS) for customized and ad-hoc Queries.  ? Designing, developing, testing and implementing GUI PowerBuilder Diamond Application, Standard & Custom Visual User objects. Developing and deploying components Non Visual User Objects (NVO) for implementing business rules, data windows.  ? Analyzing, designing, developing and implementing SAPPHIRE using JSF, Java Script, JAVA, SPRING, XML, CSS, Oracle, WebSphere, EAS Logging through JMS, Hibernate, JAXB  ? Analyzing, designing, developing and customizing the Diamond third party tools (ClaimCheck, Optimizer, Epidaemon, DRG Grouper, APC Ingenix Pricer). Involved in estimating requirements/implementation efforts for different Vendors for Diamond Third Party tools.    Environment: SSIS, SSRS, Spark, Scala, Sqoop, Hive, HDFS, Oracle, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Power Builder, JSF, Java Script, JAVA, SPRING, XML, CSS, Oracle, WebSphere, EAS Logging through JMS, Hibernate, JAXB, UNIX, TOAD, Shell Script, C. Assistant Manager Keane India Ltd August 2000 to October 2006 Keane India Ltd August 2000 to October 2006 August-2000- Oct 2006  Clients: Whirlpool (USA), JLT (UK), Freddie Mac (USA), Hewlett Packard (Global Support India).  Responsibilities  ? Managing user and Production support for Marketing PowerBuilder Application and Marketing Batch Mainframe application.  ? Involved in design, development, testing and implementation of various PowerBuilder Applications. Communicating with Business Analyst and the customer in case of issues with application to resolve the issue ASAP.  ? Involved in technical documents for various applications. Responsible for updating the required documents to support application for knowledge sharing.  ? Managing interaction with various Team SAP, EDI, DW and BW for data issue/enhancement requirement.  ? Migrated different Marketing applications from PowerBuilder 8 to 10, Managing enhancement work in accordance with SQA compliance, Managing POS data for third party vendor (ABC Warehouse, American TV and Brand Smart)  ? Reporting to senior management regarding the Marketing Application  ? Actively involved in imparting Training for the supported application  Environment: Oracle, SQL Server, Sybase, PL/SQL, Power Builder 9.0, UNIX, TOAD, Shell Script, C, SQR, COBOL, JCL, Change Management, Microsoft Visio2000, TSO-ISPF, UNIX, Shell Scripts, DB2, SAP BI 3.0 Senior Software Manager NIELIT August 1995 to July 2000 Regional Computer Centre - IN August 1995 to July 2000 India). August-1995- July 2000  Responsibilities  ? Designing, developing, testing and implementing front-end application using PowerBuilder, stored procedures, database packages, database functions and triggers using PL/SQL under Oracle.  ? Preparing work specifications with client and the allocation of work to the team members.  ? Ensuring timely deliveries of work requests, reviewing the work request execution by all the resources in the module, Maintaining application and technical support and documentation.  ? Ensuring that all work meets the requirements standards and reporting upper management.  Environment PowerBuilder 5.0, Oracle 8, SQL, PL/SQL Software Engineer S K Dynamics - Roorkee, Uttarakhand February 1995 to July 1995 S K Dynamics February 1995 to July 1995 Feb 1995 - July 1995  Responsibilities  ? Debugging and testing, Development of various forms and reports, Maintaining application and technical support and documentation  Environment: ADSP 2101, Quick Basic, DOS 6.22 Software Engineer June 1994 to January 1995 Intech Computer Services June 1994 to January 1995 June 1994 - Jan 1995  Responsibilities  ? Debugging and testing, Development of various forms and reports, Maintaining application and technical support and documentation    Environment: C, UNIX, Informix 4GL, AIX Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science & Engineering Kanpur University - Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh Skills Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Sybase, Git, Hive, Perl, Powerbuilder, Python, Svn, Visio, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Javabeans, Jaxb, Jsf, Jsp, Linux Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Special Skills: Design and Architecture, Client interaction, Team management  Programming Languages: SCALA, C, JAVA, Python  Databases: Oracle, SQL Server, My-SQL, Sybase  Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Linux  Build Environment: Spark, Sqoop, Hive, SSIS, SSRS, SQL, PL/SQL, Scala IDE, SBT, Maven, Shell Scripts, PowerBuilder, PowerDesigner, Enterprise Java, JSP & JavaBeans etc, Perl, JSF, Hibernate, Spring Frame work, JAXB, WEB Sphere.  Version Control: VSS, Clear Case, SVN, GIT  Tools TOAD, SQL Monitor debugging tools, Clear Quest, ReqPro, Rational Rose suite, Heat, Clarify, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, HP ALM