CITI manageID, Sr. Software Developer CITI manageID, Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> CITI manageID, Sr. Software Developer - Creative Information Technology, Inc Montgomery Village, MD Work Experience CITI manageID, Sr. Software Developer Creative Information Technology, Inc - Tysons Corner, VA 2015 to Present Create JEE and springboot software components for an Identity Management System (manageID) for both AWS and on-prem including replacement of JEE workflow framework with an external  graphical/xml based BPMN engine (Camunda). Created SQL plugin that translates dynamically mapped  UI fields to generic SQL queries for large data sets. Developed a dynamic LDAP framework and services  API based plugin that uses RESTful services to an SSH/JDBC based physical access system, and refactored our license management ecosystem. Partially designed and developed X.509 Certificated  based key recovery two person authentication and approval mechanism. Lead effort to transition build from Ant to Maven and configuration management from SVN to Git. Particiapate product development  story boarding and sprint planning based on Agile methodology and distributing derived tasks from  JIRA.    Department of State Worldwide Refugee Application Processing System (WRAPS), Senior Java Developer:    Developed software components such as editable and reportable Family Tree comments, Birth Details  composite and Person Details dynamic widget. Responsible for database sql procedures and queries, server side Spring and Gin/Guice dependency injection frameworks, and frontend Google Web Toolkit  (GWT) client framework. Provides analysis and development for WRAPS 1 legacy architecture.  Developed a web based file upload component for PII images of refugees and accompanying  photographic data. rejoined - Lead Software Engineer Applied Network Solutions (ANS) 2011 to 2015 Lead developers in creating a data visualization management application using JEE/JSF web framework with Primefaces. Backend is a non-relational ETL data ingestation model augmented with MySQL data  collection. Developed software that renders graphs to frontend GoogleMaps API and dynamic real-time  charting using D3js. Also created Android application with 3 person team to handle location/orientation, and remote event data. Used Gingerbread 2.3, google maps API interacting with sqlite db and remote  mysql db with json/rest pulls from MYSQL to update maps. Developed PDF parser using apache PDFBox  libraries to parse the pdf for text data. Used hash map comparative algorithm to differentiate ingest by font/font size. Used java String regular expressions to parse potential matches with 85% parsing success. Associate Booz Allen Hamilton 2010 to 2011 Maintained HTML/CSS/PHP frontend with a mysql database to act as NMAP scanning repository for TCP/UDP/Host configurations. Modified NMAP LUA telnet- brute force scripts to use Expect for both  telnet/ssh login attempts. Developed a perl parser that wraps existing NMAP XML parser to retrieve  XML scans from a system controller in the field. Created C#/dotnet Web Service to pass network  analysis from existing PHP/MySQL LAMP application. Software Engineer Applied Network Solutions (ANS) 2008 to 2010 Developed C#/dotnet web interface to display data extracted by wrapped op scripts. Created  backup/recovery scripts and trace scripts using TCL/Expect. Created routing op scripts using SLAX to monitor network interfaces. Solutions Engineer GTSI Corp 2005 to 2008 Created AXL (Administrative XML API) using C++ to retrieve SKINNY phone system data. Developed kiosk  program in C# to automate login and VPN activation for SIP phones. Systems Engineer Abacus Technology Corp 2003 to 2005 Created Solaris system scripts to execute system failover for the Command and Communications  Survivability Program at the Pentagon. Created X Windows remote login application (TCL/Expect) and engineered PROM related failover. Education M.S. Software Engineering cum laude in GMU George Mason University - Fairfax, VA 2014 Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Scripting, Svn, Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Struts, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Sqlite Additional Information SKILLSET:    • JEE7/CDI and EJB, Java, Maven/Ant, Eclipse, Jira, Confluence, Fisheye/Crucible, SVN/Git, Jenkin  • AWS Cloud based microservices, REST APIs  • Camunda Workflow integration development  • GWT 2.4/2.7 Activity and Places framework  • EL, JSP, JQuery, Javascript, D3js, HTML, CSS, Mako templates  • JEE/JSF, Spring, Springboot, Struts 2, Android, CherryPy, dotnet  • JPA/Hibernate, SQL Server, MySQL, Maria DB, Elasticsearch, SQLite, Oracle  • JBoss EAP, Wildfly, Tomee, Tomcat, *nix shell scripting