Lead Technical Consultant Lead Technical Consultant Lead Technical Consultant - Perficient Inc Canton, MI • 11+ years of experience of web applications, windows applications, web services and client server applications. This includes architecture, requirement analysis, system design, prototyping, process modeling, system and data modeling, database design, development, implementation, testing and maintenance.  • Over 6 years of experience in developing custom reports, advanced segments, configuring digital analytics platforms, and providing interpretation and presentation of findings.  • Over 3 years of experience in team lead and architect role, skilled in building, mentoring and guiding the team while promoting company's core mission, vision and values.  • Develop project technology strategy by understanding key client objectives, diagnosing and mapping client requirements, articulating solution risks and barriers, recommending project approaches, preparing time and cost estimates and planning full project life cycle.  • Proficient in creating various documents like Business Requirements Document (BRD), Functional Requirement Document (FRD) and Functional Specification Document (FSD).  • Proficient in writing user stories with acceptance criteria or user stories with use case.  • Trained and utilized Scrum Methodology to configure and develop process, standards and procedures in all phases of Software Development life Cycle.  • Proficient in project management, meeting clients, understanding business requirements, proposing solutions, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Competent in contemporary requirements elicitation, analysis, specification, verification, and management practices and the ability to apply them in practice and assist in project management tasks, when required.  • Proficient in designing database, writing stored procedures, functions, triggers, setting table relationships (RDBMS) and indexes in SQL Server and Oracle and MySQL.  • Capable of forming and maintaining positive and productive working relationships in internal, external, independent and team environment.  • Proficient in defining data needs and integrating requirements within the project.  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills in effectively presenting technical information to various audiences including the client, developer and project manager. Work Experience Lead Technical Consultant Perficient Inc - Ann Arbor, MI July 2018 to Present www.perficient.com    • Work as a technical lead for B2B eCommerce applications with Insite platform.  • Lead technical planning and requirement gather including estimates, develop, test and manage projects, architect and deliver.  • Create Centralized Documentation and Specifications -document processes and maintain specifications in a centralized location accessible to the wider team and client, such as Confluence  • Conduct testing including functional, regression, user acceptance, integration and performance to verify the client's needs are met.  • Translate client's requirements into tangible deliverables such as functional specifications, user stories, user cases, workflow/process diagrams, data flow/data model diagrams.  • Provide technical support in the development and continual improvement of service for projects.  • Organized weekly project status meetings and task review meetings, documented and disseminated meeting minutes effectively. Senior Software Engineer Plex Systems - Troy, MI January 2018 to June 2018 www.plex.com    • Translate application requirements, backlogs and use cases into functional applications.  • Design and build management systems and development environments for reporting and integration suites for Plex Cloud ERP system.  • Work independently, as well as collaboratively with team members to design, build, and maintain efficient, reusable, and reliable software solutions. Senior .NET Developer Soave Enterprises - Detroit, MI July 2017 to October 2017 www.soave.com    • Translated application requirements, backlogs and use cases into functional applications  • Worked independently, as well as collaboratively with team members to design, build, and maintain efficient, reusable, and reliable software solutions.  • Converted homegrown enterprise level legacy windows applications (built in VB.NET) to ASP.NET MVC 5 web application using Kendo UI.  • Performed unit and system level testing on applications, as well as support of user testing  • Act as a mentor to other developers with programming issues.  • Collaborated with different teams and team members on projects. Senior Analyst/Lead Developer Adecco Group North America - New York, NY July 2013 to July 2017 www.adeccousa.com    • (Hands-On) Lead Developer to mentor a team (onsite/offshore), performing design, development, maintenance to resolve critical .NET related issues for globally used Internet and Intranet sites of Adecco.  • Designed solutions for various projects using agile methodologies and assigning tasks using TFS.  • Developed intranet/ collaborative sites for corporate portal and social networking in SharePoint 2010. Developing responsive internet sites using Web API, Angular JS and SharePoint 2013.  • Developed web applications using .NET framework 3.5/4.0/4.5, MVC, Entity Data Framework, Angular JS, Bootstrap, both client and server side data validations.  • Analyzed and documented client and customer business processes and workflows.  • Developed PowerShell scripts for site migration, automatic sites creation with various custom requirements.  • Migrating SharePoint 2010 portal and hundreds of collaborate (team) sites to SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint 2016.  • Created tools using .NET technologies to migrate hundreds of sites from an in-house database (Oracle) driven web application into SharePoint platform.  • Extensively worked hand in hand with the business users to better understand their needs for business enhancement needs and effectively propose suited solutions, related to corporate intranet portal which is built in SharePoint.  • Supported various websites developed in Sitecore 7.2 with MVC 5 and other modern UI technologies. Integrating custom functionalities from 3rd party vendors such as apply with LinkedIn, Apply with Indeed on the job portal sites.  • Performed code reviews and suggesting code refactoring, security and performance enhancements. Chamber of Commerce, Alabama - Commerce, AL April 2013 to May 2013 • Developed a custom user-friendly project management system using C#.NET.  • Developed a custom project management web application without installing Microsoft Project Server.  • Developed custom web parts, user controls for timesheets, reporting tools and custom workflows.  Coursework to Career (Aug 2012- Dec 2012)  • Created a Portal for employers to post jobs, search for resumes, and notify candidates and for the school students to upload their resume, modify resume and search for jobs. Software Developer Certified Technical Experts Inc - Montgomery, AL August 2012 to May 2013 ctex-inc.com SharePoint Developer Act Solutions - Jacksonville, FL April 2012 to July 2012 www.actsolution.net  SharePoint Tools Development (June 2012 - July 2012)  • Developed and debug few custom client tools built with SharePoint to generate custom site collections, custom site, custom list, custom libraries, custom content types from a graphical user interface (using drag and drop).    Dynamic Visual Web Parts with Charts (April 2012 - May 2012)  • Created various dynamic visual web parts for a SharePoint site to show the employees monthly, yearly and quarterly sales performance.  • Built a way to dynamically generate the charts for yearly sales, quarterly sales and monthly sales for each employee. Application Developer King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals (KFUPM) July 2008 to September 2011 Dhahran, Saudi Arabia  www.kfupm.edu.sa  Request Management System (June 2011- Aug 2011)  • Created a custom request management system for the employees and Managers to approve or reject the requests with integrated workflows using ASP.NET.  • Developed Web Services in ASP.NET for different views based on specific permission settings and custom group settings to show/hide form fields.    E-Business BCS project (Mar 2011 - May 2011)  • Created a faculty information system in SharePoint 2010 which pulls the information from Oracle E-Business Database.  • Developed Business Data Connectivity model using Visual Studio 2010 and deployed as a .NET assembly for Faculty and Staff information of university from Oracle E-Business. KFUPM Web CMS December 2010 to February 2011 management system for the main site and all the departmental sites using custom web template in SharePoint 2010.  • Migrated existing departmental sites (more than 260) including site contents to SharePoint 2010. KFUPM Main Site February 2010 to May 2010 • Customized the main site of KFUPM for SEO following modern UI Standard.  • Re-developed the main web site of King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals (Both English & Arabic Version) in ASP.NET 3.5 using C#.    News & Events Request Management System (Oct 2009 - Dec 2009)  • Created a web application to create new news and events and manage its contents.  • Developed a system where right after submitting any news or events, the information is sent to the backend database and an auto generated email is sent to the administrator.  • Developed a Page for Administrators to check requests, modify content and rearrange the order of top news events from this same site using admin account and approve or reject any new request. KFUPM Faculty Homepage System February 2009 to July 2009 • Created a system for the faculties where they will be able to create a personal homepage automatically just by signing in with valid credentials.  • Created an application for creating new personal sites for the faculty of KFUPM in ASP.NET 2.0  • Developed a system where a new faculty can login through LDAP and all of his information is displayed from the back-end database. Saudi American Bank July 2008 to January 2009 • Created a Payment Gateway for KFUPM students to pay their due bills for student housing.  • Developed a Payment Gateway System between KFUPM and SAMBA (Saudi American Bank) in ASP.NET 2.0 Developed a constraint where a student must connect to the gateway from an authenticated session of RMS system. Web Developer Grameen Communications - Dhaka, BD February 2007 to June 2008 Bangladesh  grameencommunications.org  Global Communication Project (Feb 2007- June 2008)  • Performed research work with professionals from Kyushu University, Japan to create web portals for all the villages of Bangladesh  • Developed web portals for villages using the current statistics in Joomla and PHP Developed an e-Education System for villagers Education Masters in Computer Science in Task Parallel Library and CLR Troy University - Troy, AL 2012 to 2013 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University Bangladesh - Dhaka, BD 2003 to 2007 Skills Asp, Saas, Sharepoint, .net, Api, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Typescript, Silverlight, .net core, .net framework 2.0, Oauth, Oop, Vb.net, Xml, Xslt, Database, Jira Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages C#, C++, C, Java, VB.NET, CAML, LINQ, Silverlight, SQL/PL SQL, XSLT, XML, JavaScript, PowerShell, JQuery, CSS3, Bootstrap, HTML 5, Typescript  Frameworks ASP .NET Framework 2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5/, .NET Core, Entity Framework, MVC 5, MVC 6, SharePoint 2010, SharePoint 2013, SharePoint 2016, MOSS 2007, Angular JS, Angular 2, Web API 2  Database MS SQL Server 2014/2012/2008/2005/2000, MS Access, Oracle 11g/10g/9i, MySQL.  Platforms Microsoft Windows Server 2016/2012/2008/2003, Sun Solaris, Mac OS, Linux, Active Directory, ADLDS, II6, IIS7  Concepts OOP, RDBMS, DFD, ERD, UML, SAAS, Cloud Computing, MVC, MVVM, MVCVM, OAuth