Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - ReverseVision A developer who has twenty years of enterprise software development in logistics, ecommerce, construction, software, and financial service domains.    Prefer work environments that are less traditional, the sorts of place which favor intelligent collaboration over rigid power structures. A drive towards designing and developing software that is elegant. SOLID principles are followed as closely as makes sense in the given situation.    Certified ScrumMaster. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer ReverseVision April 2018 to Present Skills Used: AWS, Lambdas, DynamoDB, CodeCommit, CodePipeline C#, .Net Core    • Initiated, lead, and delivered on migrating from TFS to Git  • Developed CI/CD pipelines in Azure Devops to support easy delivery of legacy applications  • Engineered CI/CD for delivery of company's next generation platform.  • Developed CloudFormation templates to support lambda based micro-service stacks  • Developed utilities for simplifying AWS management  • Developed APIs based on AWS Lambda functions Senior Software Engineer IPS Group October 2016 to April 2018 Skills Used: Bootstrap, C#, SQL Server 2012, EF 6, Git, Web API, Jenkins, CORS JWT    • Architected and developed solutions to include SSO integration for a legacy application, content management, enterprise search, and date localization.  • Implemented several performance enhancements to the company's flagship software,  • Coordinated with two other development teams for integration and knowledge sharing  • Provided guidance to the development staff for moving to GitFlow for sprint and release cycles.  • Provided design and technical guidance to Jr. developers.  • Introduced SOLID design principles to legacy code whenever time permitted.  • Established a road map for an evolutionary approach to solution modernization.  • Developed the teams REST service layer framework Senior Software Engineer Nassco April 2016 to October 2016 Skills Used: C#, SQL Server 2012, Entity Framework 6, WCF    • Analyzed existing code base for performance improvement opportunities and documented this.  • Re-engineered code whenever time permitted to comply with good design practices and better resource utilization.  • Advised the development team on evolutionary steps to take in order to move towards operational excellence.  • Developed the contract funding module of the enterprise ship maintenance system. Senior Software Engineer OIM Squared August 2015 to April 2016 Skills Used: TeamCity, Octopus, C#, SQL Server, Entity Framework 6, Azure    • Designed and implemented the companies CI/CD effort.  • Developed highly scalable Web API services.  • Drove the effort to incorporate integration tests as part of CI.  • Ensured that all code meet industry standards on code metrics  • Operated as ScrumMaster a couple times (we rotated this role) Senior Software Engineer Nordstrom May 2014 to April 2015 Skills Used: Asp.Net Web API, Autofac, C#    • Designed and developed the service layer for a Digital Asset Management system  • Drove, delivered, and exceeded the goal of 80% code coverage  • Ensured that all code meet industry standards on code metrics  • Drove an initiative for full test automation in order to allow for continuous deployment Senior Application Developer ShareBuilder/Capital One September 2010 to May 2014 Skills Used: WCF, AppFabric, Sybase, Visual Studio .Net 2008, C#, AccuRev, Agile, LINQ, RSA Adaptive Authentication    • Designed and implemented a distributed caching STRATEGY  • Lead a team of six onshore and two offshore developers  • Provided extensive analysis and direction for integrating third party tools  • Lead the development effort for upgrading to .Net 4.0 and Windows 2008  • Worked closely with architecture on a RSA Adaptive Authentication upgrade  • Worked on a performance task force to reduce page load times  • Developed secure code to handle several banking transactions. Software Engineer Costco May 2008 to August 2010 Skills Used: ASP.Net, SQL Server 2000, C#    • Architected and developed a high performance rules engine which when stress tested was able to easily handle one thousand requests a minute.  • Architected and developed the maintenance app for business users to define rules and deploy them into production for Costco.com for the above rules engine  • Designed the database for storing rule data for ultra high performance and scalability. Contractor Microsoft Corporation December 2007 to May 2008 Software Design Engineer  Skills Used: ADO.Net, SQL Server 2005, T-SQL, Visual Studio .Net 2008, C#, PowerShell, MSBuild, WMI, Source Depot Software Engineer Micron Technology May 2006 to November 2007 Skills Used: ASP.Net, ADO.Net, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, Visual Studio .Net 2003 and 2005, CruiseControl.Net, MSBuild, XML, XSLT Report Automation Engineer Adecco Consulting October 2005 to May 2006 Skills Used: C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, Visual Studio .Net, SQL Server Reporting Services, SQL Server 2000 contractor IBM February 2005 to October 2005 C#/DB2 Developer  Skills Used: C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, Visual Studio .Net, JavaScript, DB2 DB 8.1, Web Design C#/SQL Developer Prime Coat Coating Systems May 2002 to February 2005 Skills Used: C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, Visual Studio .Net, JavaScript, SQL Server 2000, Dynamics CRM Web Developer Microsoft Corporation January 2004 to June 2004 Skills Used: Asp.Net, C#, SQL Server 2000, OLAP, Software Architecture, Database Design contractor Zaaz September 2003 to October 2003 Web Developer  Skills Used: ASP.Net, VB.Net, HTML, XML, XSLT, MNP, Visual Source Safe Education B.S. Southern Illinois University - Carbondale, IL 1995