Lead Software Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Lead Software Engineer - Shutterfly Inc Phoenix, AZ • A lead Software Engineer with 12+ years of Software Application Architecture, Development, testing, implementation and production support experience with Multi-Tenant, Web based and N-tier Architectures involving all stages of Software Development Life Cycle as Full Stack Developer (SDLC) using agile methodology.  • Technical expertise in all aspects of the SDLC involving requirement analysis, Technical design, development, testing, implementation, enhancement, production support & troubleshooting, as well as maintaining strong relationship with the client throughout the project lifecycle.  • Currently Leading a 5-member team owning a $10M/year revenue generating application (End to End) from the technology standpoint.  • Developing Client-Server and Web applications using C#, ASP.net and MVC with backend database SQL Server-2008/2012.  • Experience in Scripting languages like JavaScript/Jquery, Single Page Application (MVC4), Angular and Bootstrap.  • Experience in creating and consuming Web Services and Restful, WCF and Web API.  • Good experience in writing LINQ and Lambda expression.  • Business focus: understand scope of business, requirements, client expectations and High-level modeling of business processes, translating requirements into technical specifications and analyzing the Impact.  • Strong knowledge in writing scalable, high performance applications.  • Experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions  • Responsible for performing code reviews  • Responsible for analyzing and providing solutions with an appropriate design.  • Experience in Unit and Integration testing.  • Experience in Source Code Control Systems like Github, TFS 2010/2012, MS Visual Source Safe (VSS) and SVN  • Worked in team and independently to meet aggressive deadlines: direct interface with Product Owner, combine decision-making and direction-setting with hands-on technical involvement.  • Experience doing POCs (proof of Concepts) using cutting edge technologies.  • Excellent communication, facilitation, documentation and interpersonal skills.  • Extensive experience in identifying, creating and applying industry best practices in software development, software architecture and development processes.    Innovative Ideas Submitted (Ideas in making in Diebold Inc.):    • Text and Transact (In the incubation stage, POC ready): a simple way to perform transactions at an ATM. it's as simple as sending an SMS saying "withdraw Rs1000" you walk to the nearest ATM and collect the money without even inserting a card.  • Silent Transaction (in the incubation stage, POC ready): An intelligent system does the transactions in the back ground with consumer's consent on Omni channels utilizing the free time and processing capabilities of existing ATM infrastructure.  • Smart ATMs: This is an idea to perform transactions at an ATM without actually inserting a card and even without touching the ATM. it just requires you to stand at the ATM and command it with eye winks. This happened to be a not so revenue generating considering the efforts that needs to be put in to develop this feature. The idea is to give utmost comfort to the consumer while performing a transaction at an ATM. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Lead Software Engineer Shutterfly Inc - Tempe, AZ July 2016 to Present Project Name: Group Portal  Description:  Client facing web portal Architected, developed, hosted and maintained with complete ownership. Offers users ability to browse through the catalog of books available for printing, take the orders, Print and ship to the recipients.    Responsibilities:  • Complete ownership of the product.  • Negotiate on the scope of the requirements with Product owners.  • Review PRDs and create BRDs.  • Responsible for Credible delivery commitments and quality of the deliverables.  • Architect the application to be scalable and Highly available.  • Coding and code reviews  • Deployment of planned builds.  • Production support.  • Resource management - 5 (people offshore +Onshore) report to me and I am responsible to do their appraisals.    Environment: C#,MVC, Html5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular, LINQ, XML and REST Services Technical Leader Diebold Inc - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2015 to February 2016 Project Name: Xpression (Client - Server)  Description:  Xpression will provide financial institutions with the opportunity to determine where and how transactions are managed, therefore providing the ability to design a solution that addresses their business issues specifically and allows them to enhance the feature sets delivered to their customers in the most efficient and cost effective way possible. The solution is componentized and modular in its approach providing options for financial institutions and phased implementations. They will only pay for the modules they need and want.    The benefits of this approach are:  • Financial Institution:  ? Solution is compatible with the existing processing network infrastructure. Standard self-service transactions will utilize the existing ATM transaction processing network, while the new advanced services can be routed to the financial institutions online, mobile banking or teller / core platform environments  ? Provides lower cost of transaction delivery.  ? Allows for extended branch hours or potentially smaller branch footprint via remote tellers / call center monitoring via tablet and 2 way video.  • Consumer:  ? Solution provides teller-like advanced transactions via self-service.  ? Solution provides assisted service via tablet or 2 way video when needed  Responsibilities:    • Involved in understanding and analyzing the business requirements from the business analyst.  • Involved in Technical Discussions and preparation of Proof of Concept using Cisco Jabber Guest.  • Involved in architecting the Unified Communications component of Xpression.  • Created Stories from PRS and came up with sprint plan.  • Responsible to provide technical knowledge to the team of 7 resources to complete the planned stories.  • Responsible to create the skeleton of the application based on the proposed architecture along with the developing the assigned stories.  • Enhancing the client interface using HTML5, CSS3, angular.js, bootstrap  • Responsible to fix the defects from backlog (backlog reduction) and customers.  • Support SQA team in doing system testing by offering solutions to simulate the end to end calls between the client and the server  • Configuration Management and version control using TFS.  • Documenting the developed features and functionality in the developer guide and the user guide.    Environment: C#, Html5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular.js, LINQ, XML, web services, Web API and SignalR  3rd Party Environments: Cisco PBX, Jabber Guest and LYNC / skype for Business. Technical Leader Diebold Inc - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2015 to April 2015 Project Name: Concierge Video Support (Server Side)  Description: Concierge Video lets the consumers at the ATM avail help or talk to the Customer service representatives (CSR) via voice or video calling from the ATM. CSR can even control the transactions at the ATM on the consumers consent. This involves client and server side development, partnering with third party service providers and customer interaction to understand the use cases and the feature requests.  Responsibilities:    • Responsible to get the knowledge transition of this initiative from Diebold North America team and support the pilot customers    Environment: C# and web services.  3rd Party Environments: Cisco PBX Technical Leader Diebold Inc March 2014 to February 2015 Technical Leader Diebold Inc - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2012 to February 2015 Senior Developer Diebold Inc May 2012 to February 2014 Project Name: Campaign Office and Journal Office (Client Server)  Description:    Campaign Office (CO): With the features like Welcomes, themes and campaigns CO offers a rich look to the ATMs transforming them from the traditional screens. CO can remember the preferences of consumers and save their time at the ATMs in the successive transactions drastically. It also offers other services like E-Notifications (sends ATM receipts over Email and SMS), content notification, additional security to the consumer data by integrating HSM (Hardware Security Module), CRM integration (Pulls consumer/location targeted campaigns directly from the Bank's CRM system) and Favorite transactions.  CO can be hosted in SaaS and On-Premise models and customers can chose the hosting model as per their preference.    Journal Office (JO): JO pulls Electronic Journal files from a fleet of ATMs remotely to a centralized location, parses the records and creates reports based on the customer's criteria. It also supports sending E-Notifications via email to the registered employees of the Bank.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding and analyzing the business requirements from the product manager.  • Participated in the technical discussions with Union Bank, USA to integrate Campaign Office (CO) with their in house CRM system to get the campaigns directly in to the CO system.  • Architected the CO- CRM integration and designed APIs for the same.  • Created POCs (Proof of Concept) to evaluate Vendors like Socket labs and Twilio for E-Notifications plugin.  • Architected E-Notification plugin on the server to support sending ATM receipts via Email and SMS consuming Socket labs and Twilio APIs (RESTful and traditional web services)  • Responsible for developing system/functional specifications, requirement and impact analysis.  • Responsible to optimize the solution.  • Responsible for creation of Stored Procedures, and Queries in SQL Server 2008/2012.  • Identified and implemented the places of customization which can be customized using XML files.  • Responsible to implement and improve the quality processes in the project to ensure a perfect delivery.  • Performed Unit Testing and Integration Testing.  • Configuration Management and version control using TFS.  • Supported the project by fixing issues in each version.  • Responsible to fix customer defects and the defects from Backlog.  • Responsible for completing work & met the goals of the project.  • Verified the Test Cases with Testing Team.    Environment: C#, Windows Services, LINQ, Web Services, Web API (RESTful services), ASP.net, ADO.net, MVC, SQL server 2008/2012 and JavaScript  3rd Party Environments: Socket Labs (SMTP provider), TWILIO (SMS provider), Apprenda (PaaS Provider) Senior Developer Diebold Inc - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2011 to April 2012 Project Name: Kelvin (ATM Virtualization)  Description: Research and development of futuristic model to reduce the maintenance costs/time and the average down time of an ATM. The idea is to utilize VMWare infrastructure as a service to host the ATM application stack on VMs and facilitate the near Real time communication between the application stack and the ATM devices. ATM will just contain a Zero client and no CPU to talk to the devices with in it.  Responsibilities:    • Understanding the VMware infrastructure and its offerings  • Work closely with VMware and Teradici (chip manufacturer with PCoIP protocol) to achieve the ATM virtualization POC.  • Participate in technical discussions with VMware and Teradici and understand the challenges  • Virtualize the ATM devices for seamless communication with hosted VMs.  • Persist the state of ATM in a crash situation and fall back to a replicated VM continuing from where it crashed without letting the consumer at the ATM know if a crash has happened during his transaction.  • Goal is to Achieve 100% uptime of ATMs.    Environment: C#, XML.  3rd Party Environments VMware (IaaS Provider), Teradici (PCoIP chip manufacturer), Wyse (Zero client provider) Software Developer Diebold Inc - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2009 to August 2011 Project Name: Agilis Empower 91x    Description: This project is to develop a managed application to replace the existing unmanaged application that runs on thousands of ATMs across the globe. This application follows layered architecture following the proprietary 91x protocol to communicate with the banks' hosts.    Responsibilities:  • Developing new features to support new/existing devices on the ATM machines.  • Preparing story and epic documents for the new features.  • Unit testing.  • Bug fixing and tracking.  • Responsible to "optimize "the application for efficient execution on the existing ATM machines (Poor/old configuration with P-III processors).  • Owning technology group in the tech forum (Diebold's initiative) to train employees/solve blockers in C# and .net.  • Document the features and functionality.    Environment: C#, XML, Visual Studio 2005/2008, IBM ClearCase/ ClearQuest. Senior Software Engineer Wipro Technologies ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2006 to July 2009 Project Name: MS-Protodoc  Client: Microsoft Corp.    Description: MS-ProtoDoc involves designing, modeling and implementing test suites for many of the Microsoft's application layer protocols.  List of protocols worked on:  • Active Directory Technical Specification (MS-ADTS)- base protocol for Active directory  • Authentication protocol Domain Support Specification (MS-APDS)  • Remote Desktop Protocol- Graphics Device Interface (GDI) Acceleration Extensions (MS-RDPEGDI)  • Event Log Remote Protocol Version 6.0 specification (MS-EVEN6)    Responsibilities:  • Technical Document study/Review - Gathering requirements (of server and client) from the given Protocol Technical document.  • Effort estimation - Calculate effort estimates for plan, design (includes modeling if planned) and Implementation phases.  • Plan - Recommend a test approach (Model driven / traditional) and substantiate the choice.  • Design -  ? Adapter Design: Designing protocol adapters for interoperability of Windows clients with Windows and non-windows Servers.  ? Model Design: Designing and implementing the complete model of the protocols.  • Implementation- Implementing test suites, getting together the unmanaged protocol interface or client stub(C/C++ code) and managed validation logic (implemented in C#) if the protocol is an RPC based or implementing a managed code to validate the requirements gathered in a non-RPC/DCOM based or a block protocol.  • Test Execution - To validate every server requirement derived from the technical document (TD).  • Our implementation hit some un-tested parts of Windows implementation and found some critical product bugs. Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Jaypee Institute of Information Technology University - Noida, Uttar Pradesh 2005 to 2008 Skills MVC, MVVM, VSS, TEAM FOUNDATION SERVER, ASP, MySQL, HTML 5, Git, Javascript, jenkins, JIRA, TFS Additional Information Domain Skills ATM (Automated Teller Machine) Domain, Technology and Finance domain  Design Pattern Singleton, adapter, MVC and MVVM Pattern.  Tools & Utilities Team Foundation Server 2010, 2012, VSS (Visual Source Safe) and IBM ClearCase.