Senior CoreJava Developer Senior CoreJava <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java/J2EE Developer Overland Park, KS • Over 7+ years of progressive IT experience in analysis, design and development of web based applications and client-server applications using Java and J2EE as well as enterprise applications using WebTechnologies.  • Expertise in Server side programming using Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JavaBeans, Hibernate, Oracle, Struts, Spring.  • In-depth knowledge of the object-oriented programming(OOP) concept with JVMArchitecture, object oriented analysis and development.  • Experienced working in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle using Core Java, Java/ J2EE technologies.  • Expertise in implementing the MVC Design pattern using Struts 1.0, Struts 2.0, and Spring Frameworks with different Java/J2EE patterns.  • Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery and also experience in making webpage cross browser compatible.  • Proficient in front-end/client-end Java J2EE technologies: Servlets, Java Server Pages (JSP), HTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery,Kafka.  • Proficient in using Spring Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring JDBC and Spring Hibernate Integration.  • Used Apache Camel for routing the exchanges between different systems.  • Used Test Driven Development techniques to provide reliable, working software early and often.  • Experience in ANT and Maven build tools.Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka and Play frameworks.  • Experience working in actor programming model using Akkaactor architecture.  • Extensively used Eclipse IDE along with a variety of plug-in for streamlined development process.  • Good working knowledge of database tools like SQL Developer.  • Hands on Experience in working with the Cassandra Query Language (CQL) for querying the data pin the Cassandra.  • Good working knowledge of databases like MySQL, Oracle 10g/11g.  • Accomplished with creating Test Plans, defining Test Cases, reviewing and maintaining Test Scripts, interacting with team members in fixing errors and executing User Acceptance Testing (UAT), Unit, System Integrated Test, Regression Test and Customer Test and have good knowledge on Control-M.  • Experienced in testing SOA and REST web services using SoapUI.  • Knowledge in Creating and managing web applications, Site and Site collections.  • Motivated high flier with excellent verbal/written communication skills, admirable presentation capabilities, efficient requirement gathering ability and effectively convey them to other members in the team.  • Possess strong communication and Interpersonal skills. Proven success in initiating, promoting and maintaining strong interpersonal relations. Can quickly master and work on new concepts and applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior CoreJava Developer Wells Fargo, NC April 2016 to Present Description:  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) is a diversified, community-based financial services company. Analyzes highly complex business requirements, designs and writes technical specifications to design or redesign computer platforms and applications.Provides Java, BPM, and Web service coding direction to less experienced staff or develops highly complex original code.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the design of customizable headers and footers using Tiles framework of Spring.  • Worked with EJB in the server-side to encapsulate the business logic of the application.  • Successfully implemented the code for my module using Struts and Hibernate.  • Implemented DAO for data access using Spring ORM with Hibernate.  • Consumed Web Service using JSON and REST to get the registered users, update their status.  • Created a RESTful web service in Scala, Akka Actors & Elastic Search to download sample projects using RESTFul API from GitHub.  • Modeled the application to support bi-directional communication between server and client using Akka HTTP.  • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Responsible in development of presentation layer using JSP and Servlets.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Involved in Test Driven Development with Unit and Integration Testing of the Application.  • Developed Server side components based on Struts MVC and the persistence layer build on ORM framework Hibernate.  • Used Bootstrap library to quickly build project UI's and used AngularJS framework to associate HTML elements to models.  • Worked on NO SQL database like MongoDB and performed various CRUD operations on it.  • Involved in developing object oriented JavaScript and experienced with AJAX, JQuery, HTML5, AngularJS, NodeJSand CSS.  • Imported data from various resources to the Cassandracluster using Java APIs.  • Used JQuery library to build Ajax based web application module.  • Developed and maintained the continuous integration and deployment systems using Jenkins, ANT, Akka and MAVEN.  • Involved in daily standup and sprint planning sessions as part of Agile Scrum methodology.  • Daily use of GitHub to collaborate with a team.  • Performance tuning of JVM heap size, garbage collections, java stack and Native thread & production performance.  • Tune the parameters of the JVMand Apache Tomcat to improve the performance.  • Imported data from XML files and flat files to standard formats and published into JMS queue using JBoss.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, and automated build process by writing Maven build scripts.    Environment: Java 1.8,JDK, Struts, HTML, AngularJS, NodeJS, Spring MVC, Spring, JVM, Eclipse, JSON, REST, JBoss, JSP,Jenkins, MongoDB, JQuery, Servlets, JDBC,Akka,EJB, Kafka, Hibernate, XML,Bootstrap, DAO, AWS, TDD, Junit, Jira, SVN, Log4j, Apache POI, UNIX, Ant, Agile, Scrum. Java/J2EE Developer Chrysler, MI February 2015 to March 2016 Description:  Chrysler, is the American subsidiary of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V., an Italian controlled automobile manufacturer.FCA US is one of the "Big Three" American automobile manufacturers. The company initiated a project to modify itscustomer portal to make it interactive, dynamic and customer friendly, these applications take advantage of the latestweb standards. A greatdeal of care was also taken to ensure the client-side JavaScript facilitates modularity andmaintainability.  Responsibilities:    • Developed Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, Spring, JSP frameworks and SOAP/REST web services.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and Using annotation based Spring MVC.  • Developed complex and critical objects, class and functions using Core Java and Java Beans.  • Designing and implementing RESTful Enterprise platforms using JVM software (Java).  • Designed and developed the UI using JSP/JSF, HTML, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON.  • Used SOAP UI for checking (testing) request/response of web services.  • Used NodeJS to develop scalable web application.  • Utilized Annotation based Hibernate/JPA for Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the MongoDB for the Sweepstakes engine and Campaign engine.  • Also, worked on QA to test product and report issue with Github bug tracker.  • Apache Ant was used for the entire build process, wrote build scripts using GWT Ant.  • Developed REST APIs using Java, Play framework and Akka.  • JBoss is used as the application production server, Tomcat as webserver for applications, Apache as container in Linux Environment.    Environment: Java1.7, Eclipse, JBoss, Struts, Spring, SOAPUI, JSP, JSF,JVM,Hibernate, ColdFusion, XML, WSDL, SOAP, JavaScript, NodeJS, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JQuery, Cassandra, JDBC,Apache kafka,HTML, Ant,AWS, JPA, TDD, JUnit,Akka,Cassandra, Jenkins, Oracle, MongoDB, Linux, Scrum, Tomcat, SOA, Web Services. Senior Java/J2EE Developer Sprint Corporation - Overland Park, KS November 2013 to January 2015 Description:  Sprintobsessed with creating awesome solutions that deliver amazing experiences. We're here to unleash the power of mobile tech to help you Move Forward every day. Designs and builds web pages, applications, using a variety of graphics, animation and design software applications, techniques, and tools. Designs and develops user interface features, site animation, and special effects elements.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Restful web services in java with JAX-RS, Spring MVC with UI build in DOJO using JSON over HTTP.  • Developed the Presentation Layer using MVC Struts Framework and also used Tiles Layout for View Transactions and User Activity Monitoring module.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated Spring with Struts.  • Involved in build process through Maven.  • Developed necessary DAO's with Hibernate as the persistence framework.  • Used Log4j for logging messages and Warnings.  • Worked on various design patterns specific to the requirement.  • Used Ajax to make calls from JavaScript to java.  • Deployed the Application on Oracle Implementation with JSP, JavaScript, and Struts Validation framework on MyEclipse IDE.  • Cloning, Clustering, Performance tuning and troubleshooting of WebSphere and Configured JVM parameters for WebSphere applications.  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML and performed client side validations using Java Script.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture Using Struts Framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance.  • Followed TDD Test Driven Development and developed test cases by using JUnit for unit testing for each and every module developed.  • Used XSLT to convert XML into HTML for displaying as web pages.  • Created UNIX scripts to launch java modules on JBoss application server and to generate user reports.  • WebLogic is used as the application production server.  • Design & implementation of library to provide Kafka access to ECC modules.  Environment: Java 1.7, MyEclipse, WebLogic, Tomcat,EJB, Struts, JSF, JVM, JSP, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, WSDL, SOAP, JDBC, AngularJS, Scrum, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, Maven, TDD,Cassandra,Kafka, JUnit, Oracle, Team Track, Unix, Web services. Java/J2EE Developer Matrix Medical Network, AZ December 2012 to October 2013 Description:  Reaching, connecting and engaging members is essential to the success of any program designed to improve members' health. That's where Matrix excels. Working closely with our health plan partners, their members and primary care providers, we successfully engage members and get them the care and support they need.  Responsibilities:    • Actively involved in software development life cycle starting from requirements gathering and performing Object Oriented Analysis.  • Carrying out periodic demonstrations for application progress.  • Working as Issue resolution contact from application for any client discovered issues.  • Involved in build process through Maven.  • Developed necessary DAO's with Hibernate as the persistence framework.  • Used Log4j for logging messages and Warnings.  • Worked on various design patters specific to the requirement.  • Used Ajax to make calls from JavaScript to java.  • Deployed the Application on Oracle Implementation with JSP, JavaScript, and Struts Validation framework on MyEclipse IDE.  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML and performed client side validations using Java Script.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture Using Struts Framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance.  • Developed some applications using Web Services.  • Experience in development of JAX-WS, Apache Axis for Web Services using SOAP, WSDL.  • Created Business to Business communication by encapsulating SOAP Web Services in Java File and Stateless Session Beans.  • Used CVS as version control tool.  • Managing JUnit test scripts for development and test environments for latest deployments  • Deployed an application in IBM WebSphere Application Server v9.0  Environment:Java 1.6, Core Java, log4j, JSP, JavaScript, XML, Spring 3.0.1, Hibernate 3.5.4/ORM, HTML, CSS, JUnit 4.6, Ajax, WebSphere 7.0 Maven, Oracle 9i, MyEclipse, Eclipse 3.6.1, MySQL Server, Tomcat, Struts 2.2.1, NetBeans 6.9, CVS. Software Developer COMMVAULT - Tinton Falls, NJ November 2011 to November 2012 Description:  Commvault software assists organizations with data backup and recovery, cloud and infrastructure management, and retention and compliance.Commvault software is an enterprise level data platform that contains modules to backup, restore, archive, replicate, and search data. It is built from the ground-up on a single platform and unified code base.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in analyzing the user requirements and specifications for deciding the flex component needed to be developed and their interaction.  • Created POJO layer to facilitate the sharing of data between the front end and the J2EE business objects.  • Used server side Spring framework and Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping of the database structure created in Oracle.  • Involved in Hibernate configuration properties setup & mapping files using generators, associations & inheritance etc.  • Developed web services by using Restful API.  • Implemented Message Driven beans to develop the asynchronous mechanism to invoke the provisioning system when a new service request saved in the database used JSM for this.  • Used JavaScript for client while server validation through Expression Language  • Used JPA with Hibernate provider.  • Used HTML, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSP and Tag Libraries to develop UI/view pages  • Used JMS to send messages through Websphere queues.  • Involved in reading customer xml and constructing primary, secondary customer information.  • Implemented Maven as build and configuration tool.  • Used Apache Tomcat Application Server for application deployment in the clustered window environment  • Used CVS repository for version control.  Environment:Java 1.5, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, CSS3, DOJO, Apache-Tomcat, Maven Repository, JMS, XML, XSD, XSLT, Eclipe, MVC, Hibernate, Kafka,JSM, Web Services - WSDL, JAX-WS, JAX-Restful Services, JAXP, JAXB, QC. Software Developer Olive Technology - IN August 2009 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Participated in Requirements Analysis, and Design and Development phases of the project with major emphasis on Development of the modules.  • Designed the application using the core J2EE design patterns Singleton, Session Façade, Business Delegate, and Service Locator.  • Documented the design documents using Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using the Rational Application Developer.  • Developed user interface by creating at least one webpage for each component using Struts web MVC and Action Servlet as front controller for this application.  • Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file.  • Used Object oriented JavaScript for developing rich client page.  • Developed the interactive web page using Struts, Hibernate, Ajax, XML, Object oriented JavaScript.  • Used JIRA issue tracker to file the bugs.  • Mapped (one-to-many, one-to-one, many-to-one relations) DTOs to Oracle Database tables and Java data types to SQL data types by creating Hibernate mapping XML files  • Oracle database was used, wrote stored procedures for common SQL queries  • Developed various Database interaction objects by implementing the DAO Patterns and used JDBC as Model Component.  • Used SAX Parser for parsing the XML document.  • JBoss Server was used as the application server for deploying the application.  • Implemented Log4j by enabling logging at runtime without modifying the application binary.  • Involved in Unit Testing and Bug-Fixing and achieved the maximum code coverage using JUNIT test cases.  • Used ANT Script for building and deploying the application.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, XML, JavaScript, JIRA, HTML, Selenium, SQL, Servlet 2.3, JSP 1.2, Struts 1.2, Hibernate, Log4j, JUnit, Ant, Oracle 10g, and Eclipse, JBoss. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Andhra University Skills AJAX (8 years), HTML (8 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), JSP (8 years), Java 1.8 (7 years), AngularJS (6 years), Spring MVC (5 years), MongoDB (5 years), JQuery (5 years), Hibernate (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Web Technologies Java, J2EE, JSP, SERVLETS, Hibernate, Spring, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, HTTP, Rest, SOAP, WSDL, Service Oriented Architecture  UI Web Technologies  HTML4/ 5, XHTML, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, MySQL, CSS2/3, and MVC Frameworks like AngularJS, KnockoutJS &RequireJS and Bootstrap, AngularJS 2.0.    XML DOM, SAX, XPath, XQuery, XSLT  Languages Java, C/C++, PL/SQL  Mark Up Languages HTML, XML  Databases MySQL, Oracle 10g/11g  OS Windows, Linux  Application Servers Apache Tomcat 6/7, Web Logic 11g/12c  IDE Eclipse, JDeveloper, Visual Studios, SQL Developer, XMLSpy  Test Framework JUnit, SoapUI  Version Control SVN, git