Senior System Programmer Senior System Programmer Senior System Programmer - Collabera INC Charlotte, NC • Around 12+ years of Professional IT experience in Development and Deployment of the J2EE/Client server based  applications.  • Possess good knowledge on Banking & Financial domain and have worked predominantly with CRISIL Ltd. (A  Standard & Poor's company), J P Morgan Chase and Bank of America.  • Extensive hands-on experience working on Core Java,J2EE and Servlets.  • Extensive hands-on experience on front end technology JSP, HTML, CSS.  • Having experience on Struts Framework and Hibernate.  • Worked on Spring IOC and AOP Concept.  • Familiarity in working multithreading.  • Proficiency in a scripting language such as JavaScript, JQuery.  • Good acquaintance with software quality processes and standards.  • Effective multitasking management, working under pressure to accomplish overall objectives.  • Excellent verbal and written skills, including diplomacy when dealing with other team members.  • Worked with cross functional teams on development projects such as development and business teams.  • Ability to work independently and to handle ambiguity and changing priorities.  • Experience going through the entire development lifecycle including requirements gathering and documentation,  design, testing, training, implementation and maintenance.  • Proficiency at various levels of application development on requirement analysis, systems analysis and design,  system testing and integration, implementation, documentation.  • Worked extensively on IDE like Eclipse.  • Worked on MQ messaging using JMS  • Worked with webservices SOAP/REST.  • Possess good experience in Web/Applications servers like WebSphere, Apache Tomcat  • Worked extensively on the development of databases for the applications using SQL/PLSQL, MS SQL  Server,Oracle.  • Implemented and delivered the projects using Agile Methodology.  • Proficiency in using CI tools JIRA tool, Rally, GIT Work Experience Senior System Programmer Collabera INC May 2016 to Present Project Description: Global Record Management System is the transaction tool to manage all of Bank Of America's  offsite records management needs .It serve as the source system for all global records inventory, reporting, transaction and audit processes for over 36 global vendors in more than 30 countries.    Responsibilities  • Involved in code Deliverables and production support.  • Involved in Agile Methodology and retrospective meetings  • Responsible for Code Reviews.  • Unit Testing.    Environment:  • Java 1.6 - All our Backend code used core java using java1.6.  • JSP - Using JSP we developed View layer to be displayed  • HTML- Used HTML for display our pages  • CSS- We created our style classes so that UI remains consistent across application.  • Java Script/JQUERY- All the front validation and Ajax calls were made using JQuery  • SQL Server - It is our back end database. Written procedure and functions using SQL.  • Tomcat - We used tomcat as our application server for deployment of our war files.  • Eclipse - We used eclipse IDE for development  • JIRA - For User stories and defect tracking by QA team.  • Tortoise SVN - We used Tortoise SVN for our code repository.  • BitBucket - Git Repository  • Maven - Maven was used for Building war for our application.  • ApacheMQ - Implemeted Queue mechanism for publishing messages  • Search API- SOLR    Th  Collabera INC (Client: AT&T) May 2016 - 07 Feb 2017  System Programmer    Project Description: Project aims at providing AT&T team to deliver new products and services to customer and improve  overall turnaround time for their services.    Responsibilities  • Involved in Requirement Gathering, design, development and project implementation.  • Implemented  • Involved in code Deliverables and production support.  • Responsible for Code Reviews.  • Unit Testing and prepared related documents. (Design document, Unit Test Plan)  • Involved in Agile Methodology and retrospective meetings.  • Used Crucible for finding code complexity and also fix them.  • Used Find Bugs for code reviews.    Environment:  • Java 1.6 - All our Backend code used core java using java1.6.  • Struts - As part of MVC Architecture we used struts. In struts for forms development we used dynaActionForm and also used struts validation.  • JSP - Using JSP we developed View layer to be displayed  • HTML- Used HTML for display our pages  • CSS- We created our style classes so that UI remains consistent across application.  • Java Script/JQUERY- All the front validation and Ajax calls were made using JQuery  • Spring - We used spring for Dependency Injection of our classes.  • REST - Implemented service call using RESTFUL Architecture  • Hibernate- Used for fetching and inserting record in database.  • Oracle 9i/10g - It is our back end database. Written procedure and functions using SQL.  • Tomcat - We used tomcat as our application server for deployment of our war files.  • Eclipse - We used eclipse IDE for development  • HP Quality Centre - For defect Tracking QA team used HP Quality centre.  • Tortoise SVN - We used Tortoise SVN for our code repository.  • Maven - Maven was used for Building war for our application.  • JMS - Implemeted Queue mechanism for publishing messages  • TCP/IP - Implemented Mailing mechanism using SMTP. Application Developer JPMorgan Chase April 2012 to March 2016 Project Description: Projects aim at providing JP Morgan Treasury and Security Operations team to on-board Treasury  products for the client. The portal is also used to setup all the information needed by client to view/Managed their products  online. Using portal operations team can setup new products for clients or perform maintenance operations to existing  client's products.  Responsibilities  • Leading a team of 4 to 5 people.  • Involved in Requirement Gathering, design, development and project implementation.  • Interacted with Chicago and Chennai team to resolve production issues and support  • Responsible for Code Reviews.  • Unit Testing and prepared related documents. (Design document, Unit Test Plan)  • Involved in Agile Methodology and retrospective meetings.  • Used Crucible for finding code complexity and also fix them.  • Used Find Bugs for code reviews.  • Mentoring junior team members.  • Writing JUnit for Unit testing.  • Used Jenkins for code building and deployment.  • While creating manual unit test cases involved with QA team for better code coverage plan.  • Also involved in Legacy code clean up activity and plan.  • Used SecureAssit (Cigital) for security related testing.  • Involved in production deployment and planning process.  • Responsible for code merge Activity using SVN build tools.  • Involved in providing ROM estimated for tasks.    Environment:  • Java 1.6 - All our Backend code used core java using java1.6.  • Struts - As part of MVC Architecture we used struts. In struts for forms development we used dynaActionForm and also used struts validation.  • JSP - Using JSP we developed View layer to be displayed  • HTML- Used HTML for display our pages  • CSS- We created our style classes so that UI remains consistent across application.  • Java Script/JQUERY- All the front validation and Ajax calls were made using JQuery  • Spring - We used spring for Dependency Injection of our classes.  • Hibernate- Used for fetching and inserting record in database.  • Oracle 9i/10g - It is our back end database. Written procedure and functions using SQL.  • Tomcat - We used tomcat as our application server for deployment of our war files.  • Eclipse - We used eclipse IDE for development  • HP Quality Centre - For defect Tracking QA team used HP Quality centre.  • Tortoise SVN - We used Tortoise SVN for our code repository.  • Maven - Maven was used for Building war for our application.  • JMS - Implemeted Queue mechanism for publishing messages.  • REST - Implemented service call using RESTFUL Architecture Senior Software Engineer HTC Global Services Pvt Ltd March 2011 to March 2012 Worked at JPMorgan Chase, involved in previous phase rollout testing and also involved in requirement  understanding of phase II.  Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, Java Script, Oracle 9i/10g, XML, WebSphere, Rational  Application Developer, HP Quality Centre. Senior Software Engineer CRISIL Infrastructure and Risk Solutions Ltd May 2006 to March 2011 Project: Risk Assessment Model [RAM]  Project Description: RAM -Risk Assessment Model that helps banks, financial institutions and large size corporate in assessing the credit quality of borrowers. It addresses one of the fundamental pillars of Basel-II:Credit Risk. RAM is the  largest solution deployed internal risk rating solution in India with implementations for over 50 banks in India and  Overseas.  Responsibilities  • Played a key role in requirements gathering and analysis by interacting with clients.  • Involved in design, development, training and project implementation.  • Unit Testing and prepared related documents. (Design document, Unit Test Plan)  • Involved in providing support to clients post-implementation.  • Development and Implementation of LDAP and SSO in BOB Project.  • Onsite Experience Visit to Mauritius for Project (MPCB RAM).  • Was involved in all areas from initiation to closure of project. Actively involved in development, support and project  implementation.  Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Servlets, MVC Framework, Java Script, Oracle 9i/10g, XML, Tomcat 6.x, Eclipse PL/SQL developer, CVS, Crystal Reports CRISIL Infrastructure and Risk Solutions Ltd 2008 to 2008 CAM]  Project Description: CAM offers a comprehensive solution to banks, to calculate capital requirements as per the New  Capital Accord (BASEL II). At the same time, the framework also provides opportunity to banks to measure, manage and monitor their risk efficiently. Fundamental principle behind CAM is a Data-warehouse - It performs the ETL Process using  source data from disparate systems. Already implemented successfully at HDFC Bank, Corporation Bank, Bank of  Baroda, DOHA Bank, KOTAK Mahindra Bank, Syndicate Bank, Indian Bank, IDBI Bank  Responsibilities  • Involved in Development, Testing and Project Implementation.  • Unit Testing and prepared related documents. (Design document, Unit Test Plan)  Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Servlets, Struts Framework, Java Script, Oracle 9i/10g, XML, Tomcat 6.x, Eclipse PL/SQL developer, CVS, Crystal Reports CRISIL Infrastructure and Risk Solutions Ltd 2008 to 2008 Education Masters Computer Science University of Mumbai India - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2006 Bachelors Computer Science University of Mumbai India - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2004 Skills JAVA (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), ECLIPSE (10+ years), SQL (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages/APIs: Java, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, Servlets, Java Beans, Swing, HTML, Java  Script, JQuery Ajax.,Apache MQ,JMS.  Frameworks: RMI, Struts, WAP, Internationalization  Servers Tomcat, IIS, Apache, WebSphere.  Build Tools, CI,IDE Eclipse, IBM Rational Application Developer, Crystal Reports 2008, Microsoft Project, CVS,  NetBeans, PL/SQL developer, Rational Application Developer, HP Quality Centre, Maven2.0.  Tortoise SVN, JIRA, Git, Rally  Databases Oracle 9i/10g/11g, Microsoft SQL Server, MS-Access, SQL/PLSQL