Lead Software Developer Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Software Developer - O'Connor and Associates Montgomery, TX Work Experience Lead Software Developer O'Connor and Associates - Houston, TX October 2016 to Present • Manage acquisition and loading of County Appraisal District (CAD) data for 115+ counties in Texas.  • Manage offshore team of developers for custom built property tax applications.  • Create custom utility applications in Delphi to support business activities.  • Member of company leadership team and Center of Excellence initiative.  • Updated legacy Excel macros to work with Excel 2010+.  • Provide support for several applications in MS Access and C#.  • Create SQL queries for reports for management.  • Setup custom Zoho CRM fields and import sales leads.  • Mentor Junior IT staff  • Design marketing banners and flyers. Data Administrator/ Software Developer Property Data Cloud - Houston, TX January 2013 to July 2019 • Manage acquisition, loading, and normalization of CAD data.  • Manage data for over 100 Texas County Appraisal Districts.  • Extract sales, income, cost data from PDF for loading into SQL.  • Database and software support for PDC clients.  • This is a contract, part-time position. Software Developer PCCA / PK Software - Houston, TX January 2013 to September 2016 • Develop Pharmacy software in Delphi 6 and Delphi XE2 with Firebird and SQL Server database backend.  • Convert applications from Delphi 6 to Delphi XE2.  • Took ownership of company website, responsible for updates and changes.  • Main point of contact for customers with database performance issues. Configure customer Firebird installations for maximum performance.  • Main developer and point of contact for integration with TeleManager IVR.  • Manage Axosoft OnTime server.  • Create installation packages with InstallShield.  • Create icons and images for use in PK Software applications and PK Software website. IT Director Commercial Tax Network - Houston, TX April 2006 to December 2012 • Managed computer operations (database, networking, programming, support). As of July, 2009, manage one network/desktop support technician.  • Manage server infrastructure on VMWare ESXi 4.  • Create new internal applications using Delphi 2006 and SQL Server 2008. Applications interface with SQL Server and use a variety of technologies including SMTP, downloading through HTTP, MS Word mail merge, exporting data to MS Excel spreadsheets.  • Completely recoded and redesigned legacy MS Access data system application to Delphi 2006/SQL Server.  • Integrated SmartSearch document management system with custom Delphi/SQL 2008 applications.  • Work closely with company executives to implement and improve business processes.  • Manage the acquisition and loading and normalization of CAD data.  • DBA for SQL Server 2008 database. Manage indexes, stored procedures and triggers to support database stability and performance. Perform ad-hoc queries to support business needs. Import and update data through the use of DTS and SQL queries.  • Query Appraisal District data to provide targeted mailing lists for marketing.  • Administer company email on Exchange Server 2010.  • Interact with vendors (phone, internet, LAN, etc.) to assure quality, reliable services.  • Managed moving of T1, phone, and LAN services to new building with minimal downtime. Provide technical support HP - Houston, TX 2007 to 2010 for 25 - 30 employees in two offices (Houston, TX and Atlanta, GA). Support Windows 7/Windows XP Pro environment as well as MS Office 2003/2007/2010, Quickbooks, IE, Firefox, ArcGIS, HP, Lexmark, and Dell printers and custom designed software.  • Build custom PCs, upgrade and repair PCs.  • Maintain company website (commercialtax.com).  • Work with ArcGIS software to provide GIS mapping solutions. Technical Consultant Kim Lighting - Industry, CA November 2005 to January 2007 • Provide technical consulting for company's website and software applications.  • Provide javascript programming for company's pdf specification sheets. Web Developer/Administrator Danzco Dance Academy - Montgomery, TX August 2004 to December 2006 • Designed and developed www.danzcodanceacademy.com. Site uses object oriented PHP/mySQL to display dynamic content.  • Created custom bulletin board system with PHP/mySQL.  • Converted text file based chat script to use PHP/mySQL.  • Tested new scripts on Apache Web Server. Web Developer/Administrator MCYBA - Magnolia, TX September 2002 to December 2006 Designed and developed website for local youth baseball organization. Site featured dynamic content, such as team schedules, game results, and team articles. Site uses object oriented PHP scripting and mySQL database. Web Developer/Administrator Hit-Away Indoor Sports Facility - Tomball, TX February 2000 to December 2006 • Designed and developed www.hit-away.com. Site used PHP/mySQL to provide dynamic content.  • Provided technical support and consulting services. Software Developer II Desktop Assistance, L.P - Houston, TX October 1999 to November 2005 • Design and develop software applications using Borland Delphi 4, 5, 6 and 7 and several database systems (e.g. Interbase, MS Access, Dbase).  • Designed and developed several key applications in our custom information management system. The first was a messaging and workflow application, similar to MS Outlook. The second was a viewer for viewing our custom documents.  • Developed and maintained client website, www.kimlighting.com.  • Solely responsible for updating Kim Lighting specification sheets for use in their Specification CD software and their website.  • Modified Kim Lighting's PDF product specification sheets to allow for user interaction using JavaScript.  • Handled all technical support for Kim Lighting software and website.  • Helped develop in-house application to automatically build all pages for the Kim Lighting website.  • Developed several small applications that interacted with XML.  • Handled all technical support for our software for the first 1-½ years of my employment at Desktop Assistance.  • Developed in-house Development Guidelines and Standards documentation for our current project. Programmer I/II TDCJ - Huntsville, TX 1998 to 1999 • Designed and developed custom software applications for use in the Human Resources headquarters using Borland Delphi 3 and 4, and IBM DB2 database system.  • Communicated with analysts and end-users in several departments to acquire specifications for new applications.  • Helped develop the IBM DB2 database that would be the heart of all Human Resource applications.  • Worked with System Support representatives to help solve user computer problems. (e.g. Software problems, connecting to the database, etc.)  • Was the IS/IT liaison to the web site development group, which consisted of members of each HR department. Internet and Technologies Programmer Tejas Instruments, Inc - The Woodlands, TX 1998 to 1998 • Developed an inventory entry database system using Microsoft Access 97.  • Assisted in the development of Tejas Instruments Oil and Gas Flow Products Inc. and TexaCan Surplus Pipeline Equipment Inc. web sites and Internet endeavors.  • Assisted office staff in use of common software (i.e. Word, Excel) Jr. Programmer Vintage Sports Plaques - Conroe, TX 1997 to 1997 • Developed in-house reporting applications using FoxPro and Dbase.  • Assisted office staff in use of common software (i.e. Word, Excel). Programmer/Analyst Sterling Trust Company - Waco, TX 1995 to 1997 • Developed VAX/VMS data entry and reporting applications using COBOL and DB2 database system.  • Consulted with end-users to obtain specifications for new or existing applications.  • Provided users with a wide range of technical support, from 3rd party software applications, to in-house applications, to basic computer tasks. Education AAS degree in Computer Science Technology in Computer Science Technology Texas State Technical College - Waco, TX 1995 to 1997 AAS degree in design Texas State Technical College Skills MYSQL, Javascript, PHP, CSS, HTML 5, SQL (10+ years), Delphi (10+ years), Wordpress (4 years), Photoshop (8 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years)