Sr. Software Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - Cequint Parkland, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Cequint 2013 to Present Mobile caller name identification in conjunction with Tier 1 telecommunications providers. Selected projects include  • Development of multiple Java based provisioning services in a wireless carrier facing 24x7 Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with polyglot persistent (Oracle, MariaDB, Cassandra).  • Developed sophisticated operational tools to aid in debugging/troubleshooting of services as well as audit and reconciliation of revenue stream.  • Technology stack: CXF, Spring, Flume, Kafka, Memcache, Spark, Splunk, Java, Scala, Python, Perl, Oracle, MariaDB (PXC), Cassandra Consultant Tech Industries 2012 to Present Consultants work in various tech industries. Selected projects include  • Solution architect and development work for fulfillment center. Work include development on php / .net framework to create various rest apis and integrate with their desktop winform application.  • Solution architect work for client running multiple EC2 instances in AWS cloud. Reduce cost more than 60% by decoupling the work load using AWS SQS and creating triggers to process queue using Lambda functions.  • Solution architect and development work for financial transaction processing platform. Help client to slowly move out of current .Net Windows api platform to open source java base api solution.  • Solution architect and development work for healthcare HIPAA platform. Work with inhouse development team to migrate on-premises servers to GCP cloud. Some of the legacy asp .net apis migrate to Play and Akka http apis running in docker containers. ETL jobs are migrate to akka standard alone application to run under kubernetes job scheduler. Some legacy C# .Net application rewritten with Akka, Scala, Slick, Oracle. Sr. Application Developer NationsHealth 2012 to 2013 Home delivery of medical supplies / products and insurance claim processing. Selected projects include  • Analyze, design and develop new software platform from .Net 4.0 in order to convert existing old VB6/Delphi code, which include PHI processing, HIPAA document processing, EDI claim processing, inventory control, ledgers ..etc.  • Develop various tools to process latest EDI X12 transactions.  • Provide support for legacy code (VB6/Delphi) maintenance, modifications, system analysis and modifications to SQL Server stored procedures, triggers, views ..etc. Sr. Software Engineer / Architect 4Media / Jettis Technologies 2011 to 2012 24 x 7 high volume PCI Level 1 certified financial transaction processing platform    Architect, develop, maintain and upgrade cutting-edge financial-industry software. Provide technical leadership to junior engineers, developing overall project architecture. Selected projects include  • Architect and development of single sign on (SSO) with fully featured API to manage ACL (Migration from old SiteMinder platform to in-house application).  • Architect and development of financial transaction message interfaces (ISO 8583, EIS 1080, EIS 1081) for leading payment processors like Vital/TSYS Visa 2, First Data ..etc.  • Development of bank gateway interfaces to operate in existing framework.  • Architect and development of varies SAAS, APIs to support client requirements and connect between different platforms.  • Development and modification to existing LAMP/Perl platform to support new business requirements, extensive modification done to pass new OWASP PCI PA-DSS. Heavily involve in ongoing PCI audit for payment processing platform.  • Architect and development of new web interface (LAMP + Zend Framework) to manage payment processor transactions.  • Optimize server configuration and Magento Enterprise installation to optimize performance of online shopping cart Sr. Software Engineer Green Bullion Financial Services 2010 to 2011 E-Commerce / Call Center / Fulfillment House    Within collaborate development environment, architect and develop systems for clients and diverse in-house departments. Selected projects include  • E-Commerce / PCI Compliance related developments in LAMP environment - architect and development of payment gateway modules and data encryption layer for storage.  • Developing tools for internal intranet website for call centers, in-house fulfillment, accounting departments using LAMP, MS SQL and Windows servers.  • LAMP / Windows server system level development to authenticate company user login via centralize system for different web farms in different locations.  • PCI compliance vulnerability scanning and applying necessary patches and changes to application layer and OS.  • Development of dynamic PDF creation tools to generate various reports with barcode support.  • Various development on desktop application using .Net (High volume printing, PDF report generation, ZPL thermal printing ..etc.) Consultant / Sr. Software Engineer / Solutions Architect Reagan Wireless 2007 to 2010 E-Commerce, Customer Support, Overseas Shipping and Fulfillment House    Architect, maintain and develop desktop/mobile application, intranet and public websites. Coordinate design and implementation of applications collaborate with project managers, sales/marketing team and clients to ensure all business logics are covered. Selected projects include  • Architect and develop SOA type application in .Net to support Sprint fulfillment according to Sprint vendor compliance document-delivery specifications (VCD).  • Design .Net application related 1D/2D barcodes scanning, printing and report generation for warehouse inventory.  • Develop C# .Net application for Pocket PC/Windows mobile devices to manage inventory and production line, various C# .Net tools developed for send mass emails, track statistics for email, web marketing, custom sales / inventory summary reports, numerous crystal reports ..etc.  • Design and develop ASP .Net tools for in-house intranet web site which interact with accounting/marketing/sales/production departments to allow flexible data interaction and high productivity.  • Developing plug-in and hacking tools using C# .Net for existing accounting software (MAS90) to give additional functionality meet company requirements.  • Develop low level C# tools to allow serialize communication for mobile phones and change built in phone GUI and modem lock system.  • Design and develop PHP/MySQL application for online site to maintain inventory, developed full featured login system to allow users to login and easily modify inventory.  • Developing various EDI to communicate between various databases and applications, developing multithreaded application to flat file data mapping. Developer Shed 2004 to 2007 - Computer System Manager  24 x 7 content management system (CMS) for software engineers    Develop CMS application in LAMP stack to handle 1 Million+/day web traffic. Most of the coding done with object oriented methodology allowing maximum code re-use, consistency and maintainability across different property types. Selected projects include    • Develop script to automatically detect hacking attempts and block those. Develop tools to sync application across all servers for load balancing. PHP + Linux Bash scripts to monitor server loads, notify admin before possible server crash, run automated recovery tools to fix servers. Develop secure mobile login application for admin to check and optimize server performance via mobile phone.  • Design and develop cron job scheduler to easily manage server cron jobs, develop custom firewall application to give access / ban people across the network easily.  • Optimize MySQL database and PHP scripts to handle high volume transactions. Design and develop Linux cron script to automatically detect and repair when database failure happened. Develop scripts to backup online databases and optimize DB to increase performance.  • Develop plugins and change core class libraries for third party software application (Joomla, Mambo, vBulletin ..etc) to support business requirements. Assembler University Research 1995 to 2004 - 1995 - 2004  • Design and develop a graphical plotting application to plot 2D/3D graphs for large amount of data using C++ / Assembler for DOS.  • Developed voice recognition application using Borland C++ Builder, developed advanced numerical analysis classes (LPC, FFT etc. ) using C++ for this project.  • Designed computer control system (CAM System) for electron gun, power supplies, pressure valve for operates in high precision using LabView and C++.  • Created a high precision satellite trajectory simulation system using C++.  • Developed numerous numerical and statistical tool for research requirements using Fortran, C++, Delphi, Mathematica, Matlab and LabView. Lead Software Developer STM Computers 1997 to 2001 Desktop application development and customer support    Main work involved System Designing, Developments, and supporting to the team members for trouble shooting. Maintaining and introducing new enhancements to the develop ERP (Accounting, Time and Attendance, Laboratory, Purchasing, Payroll, CSM, Production, Recruitment .etc) solution using Delphi, Clipper, VB, SQL Server, DB2, Access and Crystal Report. Selected project include  • Created a multi database connection application which used to migrated old database to new database on migration process (mainly use for Dbase, Access, DB2 to SQL Server, Oracle).  • Created an inventory control system with both windows (Delphi) and DOS base (Clipper + Pascal) client interface connecting to one central SQL server. Education Masters in Science Baylor University - Waco, TX 2001 to 2004 BS University of Sri Jayewardenepura 1995 to 2000 Skills Spring, Linux, Java, Javascript Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate (SAA-C01) May 2019 to May 2022 Additional Information Certified Architect on Apache Cassandra - Nov 2015  Certified Developer on Apache Cassandra - Oct 2015  Certified Administrator on Apache Cassandra - Sep 2015