Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Steves & Sons, Inc San Antonio, TX Work Experience Software Developer Steves & Sons, Inc - San Antonio, TX August 2017 to Present Supported and maintained existing enterprise-level desktop, web, and mobile applications    ? Designed and assisted with creating solutions for users in Xamarin.Android to improve building processes    ? Identified causes of problems and found solutions either through C# or data analysis    ? Implemented fixes to issues within stored procedures and optimized queries by examining the execution plans    ? Designed a structure for the team to follow when creating or managing an Android Application    ? Created, optimized, and updated tools to communicate with industrial equipment with sockets via C# and WinSock via VB6    ? Experimented with proximity sensors as a quality control step within the facilities with the help of Windows IOT  for Raspberry Pi's    ? Analysed data to find issues within legacy applications not matching updated business logic to implement  updates and new features Software Developer DigitalBeef, Inc - San Antonio, TX May 2017 to July 2017 Implemented address standardizations using third-party API to retrieve JSON data for validation    ? Used Google Charts API for users to track their income and transactions or transfers    ? Designed and built a dashboard with the help of Google Maps API to search for available livestock for sale    ? Updated the code architecture and design for better maintenance and performance Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Texas A&M University - Kingsville - Kingsville, TX December 2016 Skills C# (2 years), Asp.Net (2 years), Android (2 years), SQL (2 years), Javascript (2 years), JQuery (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS    Languages  ? Experience in: C#, ASP.Net, MVC, SQL Server, Bootstrap, Xamarin, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, Android, WPF    ? Familiar with: Java, PostgreSQL, PHP, VB6, REST web services, SOAP web services    Software  ? Database: Microsoft SQL Server, Azure Data Studio    ? Platforms: Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, Android Studio