Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Plantronics Austin, TX ? Experienced Software Engineer professional with a demonstrated history of working in the telecommunications industry  ? Strong knowledge of multithreaded programming in C++/Objective C and familiar with TCP/IP Socket programming  ? Proficient in Mac OS X technologies: IOKit, launchd, Grand Central Dispatch(GCD)  ? Expertise with Agile, Scrum methodologies Work Experience Software Engineer Plantronics June 2016 to Present Design, implementation and maintenance of multithreaded OSX Native Mac and C++ cross-platform applications for Mac OS X, Windows  Tech stack used: C++11, Objective-C++, Multithreading, Xcode, VS Code  • Familiarity with IOKit Framework and implemented HID communication in Mac OS X using IOKit to communicate with Plantronics USB HID devices  • Prototyped and developed a system-level coordination Launch Daemon communicating with Plantronics Hub application  • Worked on the Hub platform which allows Plantronics headsets to control Media Players like iTunes and desktop softphones  • Fixed build breaks on a daily basis, software issues raised in JIRA and maintained code quality  • Solid understanding of HTTP REST standards and hands-on experience building RESTful interfaces that exposes Plantronics device features  • Wrote Unix shell scripts to package Plantronics Hub Mac OS X Application using a DMG and maintained the installer Software Developer IBM August 2013 to July 2014 • Collaborated with a team of software engineers in the development and maintenance of both web based and windows applications using C#, VB, Javascript, HTML and CSS for styling the web pages  • Created ASP.NET web forms and worked extensively with Dataset, Data reader as a part of ADO.NET to update database  • SQL Development, ability to write and troubleshoot SQL code and design stored procedures, functions, tables and views  • Created master pages and used Grid View control for data display and worked on exporting reports to Excel from Grid views Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas State University - San Marcos, TX May 2016 Bachelors in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering College of Engineering Guindy, Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2013 Skills Visual studio, Software engineering, C#, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Python, Xml, Linux, Unix, Objective-c, Xcode, Database, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Oracle, Sql, Perforce, Asp Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  ? Programming Languages: C, C++, Objective-C++, Python, C#, Java  ? Databases: SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2, Oracle, My SQL  ? Web Programming: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ASP.NET 3.5, XML  ? Operating Systems: Mac OS X, Windows, Unix, Linux  ? Tools: Xcode, Microsoft Office, Visual Studio, Rational Rose  ? Version Control: Perforce, Git  RELEVANT COURSEWORK:  • Algorithms Design and Analysis • Advanced Artificial Intelligence • Survey of Software Engineering  • Advanced Programming Practicum • Database Theory and Design • Green Computing