Software Developer(SQL) <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>(SQL) Software Developer(SQL) Issaquah, WA Work Experience Software Developer(SQL) Everi Holdings Inc - Las Vegas, NV November 2017 to April 2018 Worked on Service Max Project: the goal of this project is to provide a successful and holistic implementation for managing field service related tasks. Salesforce is used for managing all customer cases requiring field service. Used  informatica cloud to integrate the data between the Salesforce and the Microsoft Navision. Created several DST tasks to integrate the data.  • Wrote several SQL stored procedures using cursors and SQL functions to cleanse data entered by field techs in excel, parse data into required formats, update the tables in Navision database, import and export data between servers.  • Generated SSRS based exception reports to find any discrepancies between data in different databases.  • Extensive experience in SSRS and proficiency in creating different types of reports such as Parameterized, Conditional, Drill-down and Sub reports according to business needs. Experience in creating Power BI reports.  • Strong Excel skills and experience in utilizing Pivot tables, VLOOKUP's, sorting and filtering etc. SQL Developer People Tech Group - Redmond, WA October 2015 to April 2017 • Used T-SQL queries for data retrieval. Created database objects including tables, views, stored procedures, functions, triggers and indexes. Experienced in creating and updating both clustered and non-clustered indexes, collecting statistics  and following normalization to achieve optimal SQL Server performance.  • Used SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) to import and export data from one server to other servers. Created  SSIS packages for processing fact and dimension tables with complex transforms, get data from different sources and consolidate into one single source. Generated periodic reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Developed  various operational, drill-through and drill-down reports using SSRS. Graduate Student San Diego State University Computer Science Department - San Diego, CA 2012 to 2014 Created and deployed in cloud, a database-driven and cross-platform web and mobile application (create and maintain  child health records) using Alpha Anywhere and Amazon Web Services. Wrote SQL queries to store, search, retrieve, and join databases, check duplicates and prepare reports from the MySQL databases. Used regular expressions and pattern  matching (Perl) for validation of different fields in web forms. Used Google Calendar APIs to add reminders and events.  • Web development projects using HTML and CSS: Wrote CGI/perl and php based scripts for dynamic generation of HTML  code. Used Javascript, JQuery, Java Servlets, AJAX for advanced web design projects. Sample Websites created:  - Website that lets users enroll their children in summer camp programs. Created login authentication.  - Website for an online store that implements shopping cart and allows visitors to orders chocolates online. A report  page to display all the orders placed through the site.  - Website that allows users to shop and search cameras based on categories, manufacturers. Used databases and SQL  to log orders, update merchandise, edit, add and delete inventory records. Software Development Engineer Nendrasys Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to March 2012 Designed and developed web site (GUI) screens using ASP.NET, C#, User controls, JavaScript and data controls. Used  JavaScript for client-side scripting. Education Advanced Certificate in Web and Mobile Applications Development SDSU 2012 to 2014 Microsoft Certification (SQL) 2014 B. Tech in Electrical and Communications Engineering in Electrical and Communications Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University 2007 to 2011 Skills Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2012, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Pl/sql, Sql, Visual studio, Amazon web services, C#, Javascript, Perl, Scripting, Informatica, Ssrs, T-sql, Cgi, Web services, Etl, Power bi, jquery, Ssis, TSQL, Sql Database Additional Information SKILLS  • Databases: T-SQL, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server 2012/2014. Reporting: SSRS, Power BI  • Business Intelligence (BI: SSIS(ETL), SSRS), Informatica Cloud.  • Programming and Scripting Languages: C, C#, PERL.  • Web Development: HTML5, CSS3.0, Javascript, JQuery\, CGI (perl).  • Operating Systems: UNIX, Mac OSX, Windows, Amazon Web Services  • IDE: Visual Studio 2012, SSMS, Alpha Anywhere(Web development)  WORK AUTHORIZATION  Valid Employment Authorization Document (Green Card)