Full-stack Software Engineer Full-stack <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Full-stack Software Engineer - CO-AX Technology Inc • Motivated Full stack Software Engineer with 4+ years of experience • US Permanent Resident  • M.S. degree in Computer Science • Willing to relocate Work Experience Full-stack Software Engineer CO-AX Technology Inc - Solon, OH December 2017 to Present full-time)  • Mentored an intern.  • Wrote an API to migrate away from a legacy system to a RESTful one.  • Supported Production by designing circuit board programmers/calibrators/testers.  • Evaluated customers' products requirements and planned development route.  • Wrote an object-oriented library utilized in variety of GUIs on the manufacturing floor.  • Integrated EZBL bootloader into an existing firmware.  • Implemented the entire stack of an AWS IoT-enabled product.  • Deployed a Linux-based compiler server on AWS EC2.  • Wrote multi-thread APIs to program microcontrollers.  • Implemented a tool to export dependencies of firmwares.  • Improved Production's performance by implementing live visualized reports.  • Designed and developed a GUI to communicate with a sensor and plot data.  • Implemented a web server to upload recipes to IoT devices.  • Wrote an Android app to communicate with devices via Modbus. Teacher Assistant University of Dayton - Dayton, OH August 2013 to May 2015 part-time)  • Tutored students of the course Data Structures & Algorithms.  • Graded students' assignments.  • Proctored exams. Software Developer, Intern CO-AX Technology Inc - Solon, OH June 2014 to August 2014 full-time)  • Interfaced a Bluetooth module with an Arduino.  • Built a Google Chrome app to stress-test a hardware product.  • Implemented a Google Chrome Bluetooth communication software stack.  • Implemented a functionality tester for a circuit board.  • Programmed an Arduino to act as a push button which sent a message to PC via USB port.  • Wrote top-level code in multi-thread application running in a luxury blender - over a million sold. Software Developer University of Dayton - Dayton, OH June 2013 to August 2013 part-time)  • Developed a data analysis software to predict a river streamflow. Software Developer ITRC - Tehran, IR April 2012 to June 2012 full-time)  • Trained fresh engineers.  • Developed a process activity monitoring software.  • Reverse-engineered and analyzed malware activities. Education M.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Dayton - Dayton, OH January 2013 to May 2015 B.S. in Computer Hardware Engineering in Computer Hardware Engineering Shahid Beheshti University - Tehran, IR September 2006 to May 2011 Skills C#, C++, DJANGO, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, PHP, PROLOG, PYTHON, MONGODB, OBJECTIVE-C, AJAX, CSS, SQL, JAVA, jQuery, ASSEMBLY Links http://linkedin.com/in/sinafirooz http://github.com/sinafirooz