Programmer/Analyst Programmer/Analyst Saint Louis Park, MN • Well versed with all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Extensive knowledge in OOPS concepts, VB.NET, C# and .NET Framework.  • Experience in developing Windows and Web Services.  • Hands on experience with REST, SOAP, HTTP and TCP/IP protocols.  • Well experienced in writing complex Database Queries, Stored procedures,   Triggers, and Views.  • Experience in Testing (Unit, System and Regression Testing) and developing test   cases.  • Ability to lead software development teams, design software and databases with   effective time management and proficient data analysis.  • Experience with Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Enthusiastic and eager to learn new technologies and implement them in   challenging environments. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Programmer/Analyst Global Shop Solutions - The Woodlands, TX July 2015 to Present • Designed and developed a WCF based secure relay server that authenticates clients and transfers information to and from the database via a windows service.  • Designed and developed various GAB (company's proprietary programming language) commands that contribute to our ERP system.  • Extensively analyzed and improved the performance of GAB by reducing the execution time by 40% of the original time.  • Implemented nsoftware's SOAP and REST APIs for customers to interact with our ERP system.  • Designed and Developed a SOAP web service to access data from the database and hosted it on IIS.  • Worked on LINQ and ADO.Net objects in various applications to communicate with the database.  • Gathered requirements and developed a windows service using Avaya's APIs to keep track of company's service calls.  • Maintained and added new features to GAB SDK, used by customers to augment and customize their experience with company's ERP software.  • Managed a team of developers creating internal software tools to assist other developers.  • Assigned tasks, set design and code review meetings, and ensured team members' understanding of requirements.  • Responsible for extensively testing and documenting any changes to the SDK.  • Trained new hires and interns on GAB. Software Web Developer Learning and Assessment Services, University of Houston May 2014 to August 2014 • Designed and developed applications in C# for various departments at University of Houston.  • Gathered requirements and performed requirement analysis to determine functional and system requirements for the applications.  • Used ADO.Net objects to communicate with the database server.  • Written complex SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  • Extensively tested and documented applications for future reference.  • Technologies and Tools: Visual Studio 2012, C#.Net, ADO.Net, SQL Server 2008 Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Databases University of Houston - Houston, TX May 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Kakatiya University May 2013 Skills Sql server, Sql, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Wcf, Scripting, Svn, Vb.net, Asp, Css, Iis, Asp.net, Web services, Mvc, Soap, Rest Additional Information SOFTWARE SKILLS  • Programming Languages: C#, VB.NET, SQL, C, C++, Shell Scripting, HTML, CSS, JavaScript  • Technologies: ASP.Net, REST, SOAP, WCF, Web Services, and Windows Services, MVC  • Tools and OS: Microsoft Visual Studio, SQL Server, IIS, SVN, UNIX, Windows