Job Seeker Anthem, AZ Work Experience IDR Moving and Storage - Tempe, AZ April 2019 to Present • Purchased a moving and storage company with a business partner in April of 2019.  • Developed and created processes to gain structure and new growth  • Created training modules, employee handbooks and hierarchy within the company  • Hired a management team to continue the leadership and growth of the company while I return to my field of expertise  • Created new systems, policies and structure  • 10 Direct reports Analytic Consultant 4 Wells Fargo - Phoenix, AZ July 2010 to March 2019 MSSQL Server Database Developer)  • Developed SSRS reports for the business.  • Developed SSIS packages to manage the flow of data consumed by reports.  • Developed SQL Server databases and objects used in conjunction with business reports.  • Developed DB2 database objects used in conjunction with business reports.  • Pulled data on a weekly and monthly schedule for MHAC, the government's auditing branch of the Making Home Affordable program.  • Developed SSIS packages to flow data from the Teradata database into SQL Server to produce Credit Bureau reports. MSSQL Server Database Developer Desert Schools - Phoenix, AZ August 2007 to July 2010 • Developed and maintained SSIS packages to manage the flow of data to facilitate the day to day operations of the credit union.  • Developed SQL Server databases and database objects in conjunction with the .Net development team for internal applications for the business.  • Developed SSRS and Crystal Reports for the business. Web Developer TriWest - Phoenix, AZ February 2007 to July 2007 Developed complete web application to track various medical contracts using ASP.Net 2.0, AJAX and Microsoft SQLServer Reporting Services. Designed the database schema and coded all stored procedures in a SQLServer 2005 environment. Software Engineer JDA Software Group Inc - Scottsdale, AZ 2003 to 2007 • Technical QA lead/ developer for the design and development of a prototype database agnostic, high volume, distributed processing framework written in C# responsible for processing 25,000 tasks and 25 million database updates an hour.  • Developed complete C# application to test all mid tier framework components. Coded test methods for various mid tier framework classes .Net Developer for an inventory replenishment application.  • Developed UI layer using ASP.Net and various Infragistics components. The UI work also involved globalization, multi-language translation using resource files, and a base framework for managing common functionality across the 80+ screens. The mid-tier and backend were built using C# against store procedures written in PL\SQL on Oracle 10g. DBA / Developer Vista Software Solutions - Saint Charles, IL 1998 to 2003 • Designed and created a normalized database to support the following entities: users, security roles, security permissions, product hierarchies, geographic hierarchies, promotions, products and pricing.  • Extensive SQL Performance tuning through the use of hints to improve performance of Trade Event tracking application.  • Maintained databases in both Oracle and SQL Server.  • Worked on standardizing system data imports and exports in PowerBuilder. Driven by meta-data that allowed end users to customize data layouts and the common object hierarchy to reduced development effort on future imports/exports by 50%. Education B.S. in Economics Northern Illinois University - DeKalb, IL DeVry Institute of Technology - Lombard, IL Skills Db2, Microsoft sql server, Microsoft sql server 2000, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Oracle, Oracle 8, Pl/sql, Sql, Ms team foundation server, Team foundation server, Teradata, T-sql, Visual studio, C#, Html, Object oriented, Powerbuilder, Pvcs, Xml Additional Information • Over 20 years of professional database administration and development experience  • TSQL, SSIS, SSRS, Crystal Reports, PL/SQL  • Oracle Certified Professional: 8 Database Administrator  • Extensive experience tuning SQL against large transactional systems and data warehouses  • Skilled at communicating with business users, interpreting business needs and developing/defining solutions, then driving those solutions through an iterative development life-cycle  • All systems designed and written include dual support of both Oracle and SQL Server  • Strong knowledge of C#, ASP .Net, SQL, PL/SQL and T-SQL with extensive experience in each  • Design, develop, and execute test cases/scripts/unit tests/matrixes to validate the functionality of the software requirement    Technical Expertise    Databases Microsoft SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012, Oracle 8/8i/9i/10g, DB2, Teradata  Languages C#, ASP.Net, SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL, PowerBuilder  Technologies Web Services, XML, SOAP, HTML, Install Shield, UCC Net  Software Visual Studio.NET 2005, Microsoft SQLServer Integration Services, Microsoft SQLServer Reporting Services, Crystal Reports, MS Team Foundation Server, PVCS, Visual Source Safe, All Fusion/ERWin, Infragistics  Concepts Object Oriented Design, UML, Large-scale software architecture, embedded unit testing, Multi-threading  Methodologies SCRUM Agile, Test Driven Development