Lead .Net Developer Lead .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead .Net Developer - PRINCESS HOUSE INC North Providence, RI ? Championed the successful implementation of debit card payment system to support independent contracted  consultants.  ? Played technical leadership role in a $70M, cutting-edge project contracted by a large healthcare provider.  ? Advocated and orchestrated the development and enhancement of an eCommerce system.  ? Created a SSIS package that was converted to SQL Server 2012 and WCF services.  ? Facilitated the creation of SharePoint 2010 feature to be included in CRM integration.  ? Guided collaboration with global and U.S partners to complete large CRM project.  ? Led migration process of legacy as400 system to .net rest services based system Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead .Net Developer PRINCESS HOUSE INC - Taunton, MA 2014 to Present Provide technical leadership, actively engaging in client consultations, writing code, designing and modifying  applications, eliminating bugs, and ensuring the timely completion of assigned projects.  Key Contributions:  ? Managed project to migrate from a AS400 order processing system to a modern software suite specifically  created for party plan and network marketing businesses; successfully moved data for 60K consultants and 300K  orders.  ? Oversaw PCI initiative, managing the changes for the ASP .NET portal application for the company.  ? Hired and trained junior engineers on day-to-day tasks and provided mentorship on projects.  ? Influenced work strategies by evaluating technology and offering recommendations to improve processes. Senior Software Engineer OPTUMINSIGHTS - Lincoln, RI 2013 to 2014 Career Progression .)    Spearheaded the implementation of computer applications and the coordination of developer teams. Provided  guidance to junior programmers, consulted with clients, proposed solutions to technical problems, conducted  troubleshooting, managed projects, and tested software.  Key Contributions:  ? Coordinated project activities across multiple locations, collaborating with contractors to achieve project  objectives.  ? Participated in writing technical and functional documentation, collaborating with data scientists to assist in the development of business logic.  ? Provided mentorship and guidance to junior engineers to help resolve complex technical issues. Senior Software Engineer FM GLOBAL - Johnston, RI 2000 to 2013 Managed several in-house and client-facing projects, taking on the role of lead developer for software design and implementation; wrote and reviewed code, established guidelines, and served as main contact for third-party  vendors.  Key Contributions:  ? Facilitated team project to create a nightly job for processing data required to replace Scribe package.  ? Implemented the upgrade of the CRM 4.0 application to CRM 2011. Converted JavaScript code changes to the  XRM application designed for the approvals group.  ? Orchestrated the development of an ASP .NET 2.0 application utilizing SQL Server 2005 in the back-end.  ? Managed web application enhancements that accessed a document managed web service. Hands-on in the design and construction of user controls, web pages, and modules for the application.  ? Lead Software engineer in a project that involved the development of an asp.net application using MVC 2.0 and  SQL Server 2008.  ? A SQL Server 2008 database for the back end was part of a Dynamics CRM 4.0 implementation using ADX Studio to generate entity-mapping classes.  ? I was involved in the design, construction, and final delivery of the application. In the CRM piece, I was involved in making enhancements using JavaScript. In addition, I created SSRS 2008 reports for CRM 4.0. Project Lead MS CRM 2011 to 2011 2011 2 years TFS 7 years  LLBL Gen ORM 3 years LINQ 4 years  Project Lead 5 years Jira 3 years  MS Excel 4 years C++ 2 years  T-Sql 10 years Agile\Scrum 4 years  SQL 11 years Professional fluent Spanish 20 years Senior Programmer CGU Insurance - Foxborough, MA April 1998 to May 2000 Part of a 3-member development team that maintained and supported a client server system.  ? Responsible for maintenance, coding, testing and implementation of desktop and Client Server applications  using C++.  ? I was the lead developer/analyst for a system with over 1000 customers.  ? Developed process to migrate data from a mainframe system to a relational database. This process migrated about 5 years of processing data for Commercial lines in the company. IS Developer Allmerica Financial - Worcester, MA June 1996 to April 1998 Part of a 10-member team in the life insurance department. Our team maintained, enhanced and developed  applications for the life insurance department and marketing department  ? Developed, maintained and tested windows based applications for the life insurance company. I worked in • Career Progression .) the main desktop application for life insurance, which supported over 1000 agents and brokers.  ? I worked in the main engine for life insurance calculations using Microsoft C.    Professional Experience:  SDLC 10 years SSIS 3 years  SQL Server 2008/2012 11 years SSRS 3 years  Oracle 2 years SharePoint 2010 1 year  VS 2010/2013 11 years JavaScript 6 years  Asp.net 7 years HTML 2 years  Vb.net 9 years Jquery 3 years  C# 8 years ASP.net MVC2/3 2 years  MS CRM 4 3 years WCF 4 years Education Masters of Business Administration in Information Systems JOHNSON & WALES UNIVERSITY - Providence, RI 2019 Skills .Net, C#, MVC, WCF, Dynamics CRM (2 years), ASP, Javascript, jQuery