Software Engineering Analyst <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineering Analyst Software Engineering Analyst - Verizon Wireless San Francisco, CA • Having around 7+ Years of Experience in development and deployment of different types of applications using MS .NET Technologies.  • Good Working knowledge on n-tier and MVC architectures for application development.  • Strong knowledge on OOPS Concepts and its implementation using C#.  • Developed web applications using ASP.NET and ASP.NET MVC.  • Good Working knowledge on WCF Services (SOAP and REST) creation, testing, and integration.  • Good at showing the data in the form of JSON.  • Good in working with Angular JS.  • Having Knowledge on Content Management System (CMS).  • Good involvement in defining and using the database objects like Tables, Procedures, Functions and Views by Using SQL Server 2008.  • Strong working knowledge on data access technologies ADO.NET, EDM (Entity Data Model).  • Extensively worked with different query languages like SQL and LINQ.  • Strong working knowledge with the client side technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, and Angular JS.  • Good in working with the Razor syntax.  • Worked with Partial Views and Ajax.  • Working with Version Controlling Tool TFS.  • Working with different tools like FIDDLER2, WCF Test Client to test the Web Services.  • Extensively worked with TDD, by developing and running Unit Test cases with the help of VSIDE.  • Good in working with Visual Studio IDE 2010/2008, SQLServer2008 management studio.  • Good knowledge on software methodology like Agile.  • Experience of Coding, Unit Testing, Database Design.  • Good experience in working with Site core.  • Worked Effectively with Excel by using VBA for Automating the tasks  • Having good Knowledge on RPA tool Automation Anywhere  • Strong analytical and problem solving skills. Work Experience Software Engineering Analyst Verizon Wireless - Orangeburg, NY April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in entire project life cycle like Design, Coding in .NET Application using C#.  • Handled change requests and artifacts.  • Developing application using MVC architecture.  • Working with Models, Views, View Model and Controllers.  • To maintain the clean separation of code we were used MVVM Pattern.  • Good in design of controllers using C#.  • Used EDM 5.0 to access data from data source.  • Used Razor syntax for Views  • Involved in design of Partial Views.  • Worked with AJAX using Angular  • UI has been implemented by using Angular JS.  • Worked with two-way binding, services, routing in Angular JS  • Designed and integrated WCF services and the responses in the form of JSON, XML Format as per the requirement.  • Involved in Unit Testing using VSIDE  • Involved in design and definition of database objects like Tables, Views, Procedures, and Functions using SQL server 2008.  • We have used Site core Version 6.4.1 using EviBlog Module to provide role based security  • We have created multi language support using Site core  • Created and documented test procedures and scenarios for the pre-UAT phases. And supported operational teams during the UAT and rollout phases.  • Developed the macro tool for invoices coming from the bunks in the format of excel.  • Used Version Controlling Tool TFS.  • Used Agile methodology    Environment:  Visual Studio 2010, EA Lite, Microsoft Visio, ASP.Net MVC4, C#.Net, EDM, HTML, WCF, SQL Server 2008, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular JS, TFS, Agile, RPA, Automation Anywhere. Sr. Full Stack Developer Verizon Wireless - Irving, TX October 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the client for review.  • Responsible in design and development of web applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, NodeJS, OOP, DOM, XML, handlebar.js  • Involved in requirement gathering, design, development, testing and implementation of the web application and used Agile development life cycle with daily scrum meetings.  • Implemented client side from validation, form view results using various components, dependency injection, services, pipes in Angular 4.  • Used Angular 4 CLI commands line and webpack for building Typescript Angular 4 AOT bundles and also HTTP to retrieve data through Web API from Entity Framework.  • Implemented Reactive Form of Angular 5 to deal with form validation issues.  • Built custom Angular 2 Directives and Services for Flow Design Single Page Application for agile- based team.  • Extensively involved in coding with Angular 2.0 to add functionalities and effects like popup, search bar, dropdown saving favorites, saving custom metrics etc.  • Developed jQuery code using XML Http Request Adapter to send an AJAX request to the server side and implemented a call back function for handling results.  • Migrating the Old single threaded POS into a Single page web-based application using Angular 4/5 framework as front end and Java as backend.  • Hands on experience working with Kibana 4.1.2 to generate customer facing dashboards.  • Used Bootstrap Grid System and CSS3 Media Queries to develop single responsive application with good user experience in all platforms like desktop's tablet's and mobile phones  • Migrated the Angular application to the Angular latest versions and stabilized the application to Angular 4.  • Exchanged data with the help of JSON files to exchange data between server and client.  • Worked to evangelize the use of SVG objects in our UIs to allow a higher level of user interactivity.  • Several prototypes were built to show the interaction of traditional DOM objects with SVG DOM objects.  • Developed RESTful web application to include mapping functionalities and development of UI framework.  • Use Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules and used it to install useful tools such as Grunt, Express.  • Designed a basic view framework/layout structure in Kibana 4.1.2 to support custom drilldown views of an entire customer population.  • Developed Web API using Node.js and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Participated in code review, mentoring sessions and used GIT as version control for GIT interactions.  • Created Database Tables and wrote T-SQL Queries, Stored Procedures for the Database.  • Performing unit testing using Jasmine and Karma, along with integration testing Chrome Inspector to fix bugs and worked closely with QA.  • Develop Visualizations and Dashboards in Kibana that give rich analytics to data of interest.  • Create wireframes, hi-fidelity mockups, and UX documents to effectively conceptualize high-level interaction behaviors  • Closely working with the SQA Team, analyzing about the customer outputs and writing test cases to deliver the desired output to the product owner and Involved in discussions with the Business Analysts to identify the technical requirements.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 2/4, NodeJS, handlebarjs, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, Restful, JSON, SQL, jasmine, Karma, Git, SQL, visual Studio. Full Stack Developer Aiser Permanente - Denver, CO June 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle including design, development and creating Test cases.  • Check the Feasibility to do the Automation for given requirements  • Have to analyze the solution for Feasibility steps same has to be documented in Requirement Document.  • Have to take the Requirement Document Signoff from the SME (Subject Matter Expert) and SDL.  • Need to make the changes if anything needs to add or delete from the process.  • Have to work on changes.  • Once the Signoff received from the SME and SDL Need to start the Development.  • Created and documented test procedures and scenarios for the pre-UAT phases. And supported operational teams during the UAT and rollout phases.  • By writing the Macros and UI Design in Excel 2010 by using VB language.  • Once the Tool is ready need to test in Live environment with SME and team  • Need to get the UAT Sign off from the SDL by fixing all the Bugs.  • Used Agile methodology.    Environment: Microsoft Excel, VBA, RPA Full Stack Developer GE Healthcare - Arlington Heights, IL March 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities  • Participated in END to END development throughout SDLC process.  • Have to take the requirements from the SME.  • Check the Feasibility to do the Automation for given requirements  • Have to analyze the solution for Feasibility steps same has to be documented in Requirement Document.  • Have to take the Requirement Document Signoff from the SME (Subject Matter Expert) and SDL.  • Need to make the changes if anything needs to add or delete from the process.  • Have to work on changes.  • Once the Signoff received from the SME and SDL Need to start the Development.  • By writing the Macros and UI Design in Excel 2010 by using VB language.  • Once the Tool is ready need to test in Live environment with SME and team  • Need to get the UAT Sign Off From the SDL by fixing all the Bugs    Environment: Microsoft Excel, VBA, RPA .Net Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield - Richardson, TX October 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Coding in .NET Application using C#.  • Developing application using MVC architecture.  • Working with Models, Views and Controllers.  • Good in design of controllers using C#.  • Understanding the Angular JS and implementing the two ways binding and routing for single page response.  • Used EDM 5.0 to access data from data source.  • Used Razor syntax for Views  • Involved in design of Partial Views.  • Worked with Ajax using JQuery  • UI has been implemented by using JQuery UI  • Designed and integrated WCF services and the responses in the form of JSON, XML Format as per the requirement.  • Involved in Unit Testing using VSIDE  • Involved in design and definition of database objects like Tables, Views, Procedures, and Functions using SQL Server 2008.  • Used Version Controlling Tool TFS.  • Used agile methodology.  • Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX Library    Environment: Visual Studio 2010, ASP.Net MVC4, C#.Net, EDM, HTML, WCF, SQL Server 2008, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, TFS, Agile. .Net Developer North Texas Toll way Authority - Plano, TX May 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Coding in .NET Application using C#.  • Developing application using Three-tier architecture.  • Used EDM 5.0 to access data from data source.  • Designed custom user controls in order to provide consistent user interface.  • Used ASP.NET and SQL Server 2008 as backend database for web application development.  • Designed attractive and consistent HTML documents and used cascading style sheets (CSS).  • Performed client side validations using Validation Controls and JavaScript.  • Developed an export module which exports data into XML file format.  • Used Visual Studio.NET debugger and ASP.NET trace functionality to debug the application.  • Designed and developed the database in SQL Server 2008.  • Involved in design and definition of database objects like Tables, Joins, Views, Procedures, and Functions using SQL Server 2008.  • Involved in the Unit Testing of the applications  • Used Version Controlling Tool TFS.  • Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX Library.  • Responsible for user training, post-development support, documentation and maintenance of the application.    Environment: Microsoft .Net Framework 4.0, ASP.NET, C#.NET, MVC, Ajax, JavaScript, HTML 5.0, CSS 3.0, SQL Server 2008. .Net Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC June 2010 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed 3-tier architecture application using ASP.NET  • Created Stored Procedures and Triggers in the database  • Implemented tight Security throughout the application using .Net Forms Authentication.  • Security is maintained for the files by restricting permissions to the people over the network.  • Designed Custom classes for Data Validations, exceptional handling.  • Used LINQ for querying from custom object collections.  • Used ADO.NET for database interaction using Data Adaptor, Data Reader, Data Set and Data Views  • Designed attractive and consistent HTML documents and used cascading style sheets (CSS).  • Visual Source Safe 6.0 was used for version controlling and source code protection  • Involved in Database design related to different modules.    Environment: Visual Studio 2008 v3.5, SQL Server 2005,C#, ASP.Net, LINQ, WCF, Web Services, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, T-SQL, Procedures and Windows Vista\XP. Full Stack Developer T. Rowe Price - Owings Mills, MD February 2009 to May 2010 Responsibilities:  • Have to take the requirements from the SME.  • Have to analyze the solution for Feasibility steps same has to be documented in Requirement Document.  • Have to take the Requirement Document Signoff from the SME ( Subject Matter Expert) and SDL.  • Used VSIDE 2010 to develop the Windows application. MS Access to Maintain the DB.  • Developed the application using VB. Organized the excel data by implementing macros.  • Need to make the changes if anything needs to add or delete from the process.  • Manage change request and artifacts.  • Once the Signoff received from the SME and SDL, Need to start the Development.  • Once the Tool is ready need to test in Live environment with SME and team  • If any bugs found need to handle the bugs and fix them.  • Created and documented test procedures and scenarios for the pre-UAT phases. And supported operational teams during the UAT and rollout phases.  • Need to get the UAT Sign off from the SDL by fixing all the Bugs.  • Used AGILE methodology.    Environment: MS Access, MS Excel, VB.Net, VSIDE 2010. Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, Html, Javascript, Json, Microsoft .net, Wcf, Ado, Ado.net, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql, Asp, Css, Iis, Iis 7, Asp.net, Asp.net 4.0, Mvc Additional Information Technical Skills:    Microsoft .Net Technologies ASP.NET 4.0, ADO.NET, WCF, ASP.NET MVC 4.0, EDM.  Programming Languages C#, VB  Web Technologies HTML,CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, JSON  RDBMS SQL Server 2008/2005.  Operating Systems Windows 7/XP.  Development Tools Visual Studio IDE.  Application Servers IIS 7.0/6.0  Version Control TFS.  Other Tools Fiddler2, Wcf Test Client. Automation Anywhere