Module Lead Module Lead Working as Module Lead, Roles played - Coordinating with offshore team, Requirement gathering, Designing, Developing and testing; Denver, CO • 6.8 years of overall IT Experience.  • 6.8 years of experience in (Java/J2EE) Logistics & Commercial applications development. Experienced in developing efficient and scalable software solutions using Extreme-programming methodologies.  • Experience in Developing J2EE (JSP, Servlet, Struts, JSF, EJB, Hibernate) components using IDE such as BEA workshop & Eclipse and deploying to Application servers and Web server such as Weblogic, Tomcat.  • Experience in developing using Struts & JSF Framework.  • Sound knowledge in Core java.  • Worked in all Phases of software life cycle.  • A good team player with strong analytical, organizational and problem solving skills.  • Communicate with ease with both technologists and end users/clients (onsite).  • Ability to learn fast, Flexible and good learning curve.  • Invented how to write Cactus Test cases for Front Controller Design pattern.  • Invented how to use, JProfile suite to check performance of the project. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Module Lead FedEx, US - Colorado Springs, CO April 2010 to Present Description: INET is a web based application that enables users to send shipments with out the need for visiting a station and at the comfort of their home. Users can create shipment using an existing FedEx Account Number or using a Credit Card. In general the application has the following features:-  • Create Shipment.  • Return Shipment.  • Save for later  • View Pending Shipments  • Displaying History of Shipments.  • Print shipment.  • Edit the Shipment.  • Cancel the Shipment.    The FedEx Ship Manager at FedEx.com (INET) is an online shipping system which is one of FedEx internal service consumers of the FedEx ESOA (Enterprise Business Service layer)-Style Architecture. It consists of two major parts: • Ajax-based Rich Browser User Interfaces  • Presentation tier at Weblogic web container based on Struts framework    This application Supports pass key as well as non-pass key customer for shipment. This also supports save for later option, where customer can place there orders later, stored in Database but not yet shipped.    My Role:  1) Involved in designing, developing & testing for the module/Big SRS - Mail Room, taking full ownership on the assigned modules, and managing team members and to get work done from team members.  2) Completed Translation project, which is required to convert values/fields into different locales/languages.  Got appreciation from customer, for implementing Translation code with in 15 days time. Earlier customers performing this task manually every time when production move happens. Wasting lot of time for this task before release (Pre release activity).   PROJECT #2: Project: CIL, Critical Inventory Logistics (Product of NextJet) Sr. Software Engg FedEX , India - Bangalore, Karnataka April 2007 to Present Environment: Java/J2EE, Windows, Linux.  Skill: JSF, struts, EJB, JSP, Hibernate, Oracle.  Role: Sr. Developer, Designing, Developing and testing modules.    Description: This project is designed and developed for FedEx to place an order for the packages which are sending from the customers. This project initially developed by NextJet Company, using Struts Framework, EJB as middleware, oracle as backend. Due to increase in load for the application which was taking lot of time. FedEx planned for new framework which work faster than existing, so they decided to come up with JSF framework, Hibernate, oracle.  Basically this project used to send orders for the packages from source to destination. User enters source place and destination place. This project will decide the path which is optimum among all the paths and the price for the optimum path (O2S, Order Optimization System). This is done by PCMiller algorithm. This finds shortest path from the already existing paths. This module is called routing. User can select for different routing too if he/she is not satisfied for the existing one. Currently we have 4 type of orders selection.    ? Inventory Orders (Outbound orders only)  ? Return Orders (Inbound Order Only)  ? Transportation Orders.  ? Exchange & Advance Exchange Orders (Inbound and Outbound Orders)    My Role: 1) Involved in designing, developing & testing Remediated flow of the project.  2) Handling a small team of size 4, by taking ownership of the entire module, interacting with clients for requirement analysis.  3) Tracking the team member's task done, whether they are on track on the deliverables, if not what are the measures needed to take to deliver deliverables on time.  4) Training my team members technically and Application/Product knowledge.    Key Features accomplished: 1) Understand the project with in a short period of time.  2) Learnt JSF, Hibernate with in a short span of time, to develop the modules with in time.  3) Implemented PMD tool for Code check, whether developers maintains java coding standard and removal of unused code in the product/application.   PROJECT #3: Project: Superblu for FedEx Module Lead Mphasis Technologies March 2007 to Present • Worked as Application Engineer in Qwest India Telecom Software Services from April 2006 - Mar 2007. Developer, Designing, Developing and testing modules FedEX , US March 2007 to October 2007 Description: This project developed for FedEx (EMEA - Europe & Middle East Asia). This project is basically used for searching and sorting the parcels, which are sent from one end before sending the parcels to other side. Before reaching destination there may be chances from CUSTOMS end for verifying the parcels. This project allows them to verify the parcels, which are blocked, based on certain criteria. And also it will send the parcels through HUB. (Where sorting will takes place). This application will also list the Missing parcels, Expected, Arrived etc along with in which Flight/truck the parcels arrived/departure.    My Role: 1) Manifest Scrolling: This is Web module developed using STRUTS framework to show all the parcels to the user along with their information. (When the parcel will arrive to the destination through flight/truck etc). Software Developer & Trainer Unique Infotech January 2005 to April 2006 Extensive experience in following skills: Languages: Java, C, C++.  Technologies: JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, EJB.  Open Source Framework: Struts, JSF.  Web & Application Server: BEA Weblogic9.2, Tomcat5.5.  RDBMS: Oracle9i, MySQL.  Markup Languages: HTML, XML, CSS, XSL.  Operating System: Windows 2K/XP.  Tools: Cactus, JProfiler, PMD, Cruise control.   PROJECT #1: Project: INET (FedEx Ship Manager at FedEx.com) Education master in Software Engineering Sri Jayachamarajendra College of Engineering B.E. in Computer Science Sri Jayachamarajendra College of Engineering Diploma in Computer Science & Engineering Board of Technical Education - Bangalore, Karnataka Skills Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JSF, Hibernate, EJB, XML, CSS, XSL, JProfile, Cactus, PMD, JMS Additional Information Technologies: JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, EJB.  Open Source Framework: Struts, JSF.  Web & Application Server: BEA Weblogic9.2, Tomcat5.5.  RDBMS: Oracle9i, MySQL.  Markup Languages: HTML, XML, CSS, XSL.  Operating System: Windows 2K/XP.  Tools: Cactus, JProfiler, PMD, Cruise control.    Technologies Used: Struts, Jsp (Only Tag libraries no Scripplet)    2) Watchdog: This concept is similar to fail over server, which keeps track of all the nodes that are alive. If any node is dead then other node will take care of the process that should be done by failure node. Basically all the parcels information will be taken as an input for this project, and this will be tracked by Watchdog module.  Technology Used: Core Java, Multi Threading.    Key Features accomplished:  1) Cactus Test cases:  Introduced how to write test cases for ACTION classes (by doing R&D) on the same.  Previously testing for action classes was not handled during Unit /Integration Testing.  2) JProfile Suite:  Introduced JProfile suite to check performance of the project.    PROJECT #4:  Project: Application Metrics.  Qwest Software Solution, US/India, June 2006 - Feb 2007 Team size 6    Description:  This is internal project used by Qwest telecom software service. Previously employees are using e-mails to send the request related to Human Resource department. For ex. (Some employees have not received Confirmation letter, Re-imbursement claims). By using this project we can send the request to HR-Dept instead through e-mail.  Users of this project will of three types  1) Employee of the Qwest.  2) HR-Team members of the Qwest.  3) HR-Team Lead of the Qwest.    • Employee has the rights to raise a ticket/request related to HR Department;  • Another option for user is he/she can view the requests or Reports along with the Status.  • HR Team members involved in these issues to solve the problems of the employees.  • If not then these issues are escalated to HR Lead.  • HR Lead looks into these issues and he/she will take necessary actions to solve the issues and also they can decide the performance of the HR-Team members.    Environment:  Java 1.4, J2EE 1.3, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Struts, Weblogic application server 8.1, Oracle 9i,  Eclipse 3.2, XML, HTML, CSS, Ant.    This project is basically to get the effective time utilization of the AIP those who are supporting the Application .This project gives the number of hours that employee worked for that week. Using this project higher management can decide whether they need to add some extra task to that team/employee if that team had done fewer tasks. Or the can add some resources to avoid he burden of the employees on that particular task.