Senior Drupal Developer Senior Drupal <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Drupal Developer New York, NY Senior Drupal developer and architect with 15 years of experience programming. Expertise in custom modules development, extending contributed modules, custom themes, and architecting editorial workflows. 10 years developing and maintaining from small to large Drupal sites. Have played key roles in system architecture, Drupal 8 development, database design, Drupal migrations and team lead. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Drupal Developer Parce Corporation - Remote January 2014 to Present Responsibilities  As a contractor I have contributed to several Drupal projects including Tenth Wave, Tough Mudder and 321 Launch. All these projects have been built under Drupal 7, each with their own set of requirements that needed different architecture.    Accomplishments  - Integrated Apache Solr Search module to allow end-users to search for products which had multiple categories. An Ajax faceted filtering feature was also implemented for search.  - Multi-language setup with the Internationalization (i18n) module and Internationalization Views module. Backend support for multiple media library uploads in order to integrate a responsive design to serve multiple mobile devices.  - Implementation of custom sub-theme based on the contributed theme Zurb Foundation. Laid out the the foundation and documentation of the sub-theme so that frontend developers could provide their HTML, CSS and Javascript solutions.   - Build a custom RESTful API to handle the separation between the backend (Drupal) and the frontend framework. Due to the complexity of the requirements, I decided to build a small, yet extendable custom API module as oppose to using Services. Senior Software Engineer A&E, A+E Networks Digital - New York, NY April 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities  Filled several development roles including assisting in the platform architecture, development of custom modules, integration of contributed modules, supporting and collaborating with a large team of backend and frontend developers to migrate A&E’s official website to Drupal 7.    Accomplishments  - Built several custom modules to fulfill a variety of business requirements, such internal newsletter integration with Drupal thru cURL, Integration with Facebook, Twitter and Instagram’s APIs and integration with an internal Video platform’s migrated content.  - Introduced the contributed module, Beans, to provide the ability of having Blocks as Block Types. Custom modules were built to extend and hook into all Bean instances and add logic, as well as pass dynamic data to the theme layer. Instances of Beans are managed by Editors and Producers.  - Responsible for laying out the foundation of the primary theme. Directories, files, main hooks overrides, image’s directory structures, etc.  - Assisted the frontend team to implement a fully responsive design oriented site by passing additional dynamic data thru Drupal settings. Example, passing scheduling information of Episodes and Video specific data to be available; which would then change the user experience based in timezones, mobile devices and browsers. Lead PHP Developer NBC News Digital April 2011 to April 2013 NBCUniversal, Inc    • Lead backend developer for high traffic, consumer facing, content-driven NBC News Digital community brands with 30+ million unique visitors per month, and high community contributed message boards, including Astrology.com, iVillage.com, BabyNamer.com, iVillage.co.uk, forums.iVillage.com.    • Lead the backend platform architecture, and database migration of 18 years worth of data (+100 million comments, +20 million nodes and +1 million users), from Lithium to Drupal 7 CMS. Responsible for architecting the backend framework, including the contributed modules to use, custom modules needed to be build. Providing and enforcing PHP standards and Drupal best practices including DAPI. Integrated a continuous and automated deployment process and scripts based on Drush and custom Bash Scripts to handle our weekly sprint releases. The release scripts act as release instructions, reduces the probability of human error by the quality assurance team, and most importantly it guarantees to run the same release instructions on every integrated environment.    • Develop and maintain systems composed of a framework based on Kohana for serving front end users, and CMS Drupal 6 for providing a REST/Services API for feeding the data to the framework. Developed a caching system for all REST services, and complete system to fully utilize APC, Memcached and Varnish to provide end users with the best user experience possible. The cache system acts upon Editorial actions, such saving, updating or deleting nodes.    • Developing, scaling and maintaining a REST API feeding content to Astrology.com, as well as their editorial platform. The REST API is an extension of our primary Services and it fully integrates with the custom built-in cache system. Senior PHP Developer KickApps Corporation October 2010 to April 2011 KitDigital Inc    • Developed and maintained enterprise class websites and applications based on PHP and Drupal. Collaborated closely with the lead backend developer to support and expand on existing Drupal architecture for websites with over 10,000 active users with an average traffic of 50,000 page views per day. Responsible for working closely with clients, project managers, quality assurance team and a team of over 20 developers around the world. Clients included International Data Group (IDG), ITworld.com.    • Supported and integrated the main ITworld, and ITworld Answers website in the content management system Drupal. Built custom modules for supporting actions, triggers and comprehensive user stats; which were fully integrated to work with Social Network APIs including Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. PHP Developer FOX News Channel August 2009 to October 2010 Fox Entertainment Group    • Developing modules under CMS Drupal and WordPress Mu for sites such Fox Business Quotes, The Fox Nation and Fox News blogs such Gretawire and Liveshots. These modules were built by using their respective APIs and included functionalities such; allowing users to create RSS/Atom feeds from other feeds with a full integrated drag and drop interface, dynamic Meta tags injection for search engine optimization, and a content processing module with full RAMP technology integration to create content related links. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Queens College - New York, NY January 2005 to May 2009 Associate in Applied Science in Digital College of Technology - New York, NY September 2002 to December 2004 Skills Drupal, PHP, MySQL, Linux, Agile, Jira, Git, SVN, HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery