Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - AppointLink Portal Solutions St. Louis, MO Senior IT Professional with over 20 years experience in database design and development. Proficient in web-based software application development. Strengths include excellent oral and written communication skills, extensive experience in requirements gathering, data analysis, application design and development, software testing and support, and defect resolution. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer AppointLink Portal Solutions - St. Louis, MO May 2010 to Present - Responsible for design, development and integration of applications using MS SQL Server, VB.Net, C#, Angular, LINQ and Web API. Included maintenance of existing applications using ASP.Net, SharePoint, and MS Access. Also, responsible for support ticket management using FreshDesk.  • Designed processes to streamline auditing/reporting of education data for large school district. Met requirements of Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE), incorporated MS SQL Server/SSRS to report data issues to internal users, and utilized SSIS to generate export files submitted data to DESE. Eliminated need for internal auditor to manually report issues to data owners and allowed district to meet data submission deadlines and secure government funding.  • Developed a fully automated website for users to create classroom seating charts. Integrated with Stripe.com for payment processing and incorporated Learning Tools Interoperability (LTI) to integrate with Learning Management Systems (LMS) Canvas/Blackboard (using Angular, C# and LINQ). Enabled users to sign-up and start creating seating charts in a timely manner.  • Migrated integration of Identity Management solution from Remedy to ServiceNow. Reconfigured SQL queries, SharePoint web parts, and created web service to interact with new platform. Cut over without interruption to customer.  • Created and managed support ticketing process. Adopted FreshDesk as ticketing/knowledge base system, created rules for managing tickets, and reported weekly support analytics to management team. Helped support team consistently receive positive feedback from customer satisfaction surveys.  • Maintained Identity Management (IDM) solutions for education and healthcare customers. Resolved data synchronization issues between authoritative data sources like SAP, ADP, Banner, IFAS, SIS and data directories like Novell, FIM/MIM, and Active Directory. Provided customers with solutions to maintain accurate data across repositories. IT Consultant Yekcoh Enterprises - Westminster, CO October 2008 to May 2010 - Responsible for applications, websites, and databases for national elevator inspection service company, offices in FL, MO, NY, OH, and WI. Included gathering requirements from customer for new development. Also, responsible for preparing estimates/functional specification documents for system enhancements.  • Designed work order and reporting interface for field inspectors. Used ASP.Net and MS SQL Server, integrated with Field2Base forms system. Reduced need for paper forms, eliminated need for postal delivery, and expedited transmission of information to and from the field inspectors.  • Enhanced inspection data integration with Wisconsin EDI system. Added additional fields to forms in MS Access (2003 and 2007) and improved logic of VBA code to meet requirements outlined by state. Allowed customer to renew contract with WI as exclusive elevator inspection company.  • Created systems processes and troubleshooting guide for new ownership group. Served as Subject Matter Expert to new development and support teams. Helped company transition core applications from FoxPro to .NET platform. Account Manager / IT Analyst / Software Developer AppointLink Portal Solutions - St. Louis, MO September 1999 to October 2008 Software Support Specialist A.G. Edwards & Sons - St. Louis, MO August 1998 to September 1999 Education Bachelor of Science in Information Management in Information Management Washington University in Saint Louis Bachelor of Arts in Communications in Communications Saint Louis University Skills SQL, XML, Git, Software Development, Microsoft SQL Server, SDLC, Javascript, Relational Databases