Associate Associate Associate - Cognizant Technology Solutions U.S. Corporation Newark, DE • A dynamic professional with 11 years of experience in Data warehousing and Business Intelligence technologies along with around 4 years of data visualization using Tableau.  • Expertise in Business Objects 4.1, 4.0, XI R3/R2, Tableau 2018.2 and Business Objects Administration etc.  • Worked in all phases of BW/BI full life cycles including analysis, design, development, testing, deployment, post-production support/maintenance, documentation and end-user training.  • Produced attractive Tableau visuals/dashboards to convey the story inside the data using techniques for guided analytics, interactive dashboard design and visual best practices.  • Designed Business Objects Universes and efficient information frameworks, implementing business rule as per business requirement. Created complex Business Objects reports/scorecards.  • Involved in trouble shooting of performance issues which were associated with Business Objects reports and Tableau Dashboards.  • Extensive knowledge in SQL, PL/SQL& T-SQL programming and trouble shooting.  • Good Knowledge of Data Warehouse Concepts including Schemas and Data Modeling.  • Good knowledge in ETL methodology for Data Extraction, transformations, loading.  • Good understanding of business environment, strong analytical, problem solving abilities, excellent communication skill and ability to work proactively in a fast paced environment.  • Comfortable at coordinating and managing the teams of small size.  • Has strong ability to learn new Technologies in a short span. A project planner with expertise in planning, executing and spearheading various SDLC/Agile projects in compliance to quality standards.  • Got Kudos, Bravo and Pet on Back (PoB) award for defect less delivery. Work Experience Associate Cognizant Technology Solutions U.S. Corporation May 2013 to Present Senior Software Engineer Tech Mahindra - IN September 2010 to May 2013 Software Engineer Wipro Technologies - IN March 2010 to August 2010 Associate Software Engineer VMoksha Technologies Pvt. Ltd - IN March 2008 to March 2010 Tableau/Business Objects Developer JPMorgan Chase - Wilmington, DE Organization Cognizant Technology Solutions US Corp.  Team Size Project: 4 Module: 2  Environment (with skill versions) Languages: SQL  Database: MS SQL Server 2014/2012/2008, Maria DB  Tools: Tableau 2018.2, SAP Business Objects 4.1(IDT, WebI Rich client, CMC, BI Launch pad etc.), JIRA  O/s: Windows 10    Project Description:  This project deals with creating reports/dashboards for CCB (Consumer and Community Banking) Line of Business(LoB) of JPMC. It involves integration of data from multiple source systems namely Clarity Application, PPL Application, Vendor Management, IDVault/Phonebook and apply business logic on top of source data to derive conversion. It enables business to measure Budget vs. Full year outlook, remaining budget by CEO/CIO, status reports at projects, programs and roadmaps level, Resource distribution across location(financial hub vs. exit location), workforce management index capturing important KPIs(Offshore-Onshore, FTE-Contractor Ratio, Contractor to Full-time conversion ratio, Preferred Vendor) and variance from target, number of Furlough (mandatory leave program for contractors) days per each contractor and dollar save, Vendor survey and their trend(increase/decrease) of rating Qr over Qr etc. Also, Hygiene reports to catch data anomalies like missing billing rate or incorrect onshore/offshore billing rate of contractors, contractors not booking time in clarity, active resources not forecasted in clarity, Resources forecasted under unallocated capacity and generic buckets, reconciliation of Vendors charging to client for each contractor's per hour billing rate vs. time booking by contractors in client's clarity portal.    Contribution:  • Understanding requirements of the Business users and propose the solution which would be best suitable for their requirements.  • Interaction with the client on various forums for project status discussion, clarification of raised queries around the new functionalities and the area of improvement for the existing functions of the application etc. Developing and maintaining strong client relations with senior level executives - developing new insights into the client's business model, pain points and delivering actionable high-impact results.  • Designed, developed, tested, and maintained Tableau functional dashboards based on user requirements. Mastered the ability to design and deploy rich Graphic visualizations with Drill Down and Drop down menu option and Parameters using Tableau.  • Converted existing BO reports to tableau dashboards.  • Developed Tableau data visualization using Cross tabs, Heat maps, Box and Whisker charts, Scatter Plots, Geographic Map, Pie Charts and Bar Charts and Donut Chart.  • Worked extensively with Advance analysis Actions, Calculations, Parameters, Background images, Maps, Trend Lines, Statistics and table calculations.  • Hands on building Groups, hierarchies, Sets to create detail level summary reports and Dashboard using KPI's.  • Provided Production support to Tableau users and Wrote Custom SQL to support business requirements.  • Distributed Tableau reports using techniques like Packaged Workbooks, PDF to different user community.  • Design and develop BO reports, scorecards and dashboards. Design Report-Layouts, Unit test reports and validate against test cases. Identify the performance bottle-necks in the report and resolve the same.  • Design BO Universes and efficient information frameworks, implementing business rule as per business requirement.  • Involved in creation of high level detail design documents for reports using the Business requirement document and facilitating design sign off from the users.  • Involvement in the review of all on-going development activities of reports/dashboards and making sure that required changes occur within the prescribed timelines.  • Need to define the best application of the Agile processes and continuously increasing productivity and efficiency. Involvement in the continuous training & improving the motivation factor of the offshore team to procure the best end result.  • Involved in making necessary enhancements in the Business Objects universe.  • As a part of the development team I have developed crucial reports which met all the Business requirements. Responsible for assisting customers in resolving simple to intermediate issues by troubleshooting critical problems on mission critical deployments.  • Responsible for testing the reports to see if they meet the client's requirements.  • Involved in Design of Test Strategy, Creation of Unit Test Plan, Testing and logging Test Results. Tracking Defects found during testing.  • Migrating of reports/universes from DEV, SIT, QA and UAT environment.  • Knowledge of Onshore - Offshore model of working and coordinating with offshore team.    2. Project Name: Cancel and Correct(CnC) Datamart  Client Credit Suisse, USA  Role Business Objects/Tableau Developer  Organization Cognizant Technology Solutions India Ltd.  Team Size Project: 9 Module: 2  Environment (with skill versions) Languages: SQL  Database: Oracle 10g  Tools: SAP Business Objects 4.1(UDT, IDT, WebI Rich client, CMC, BI Launch pad etc.), BOXI R3.1, BO Administration, Tableau Desktop 8.3  O/s: Windows 7    Project Description:  Cancel and Corrects Data Mart (CnC) is the application which is a supervisory and reporting solution across securities to review cancel and correct activities of trades. The objective is to reduce the operational risk to the firm, by putting in place Rules which will mark the trades which are cancel and corrected subsequently after trade date, or replaced or amended after the trade date, that result in a significant economic impact. The application provides risk and exception based reporting, for trades cancels and corrects that most likely matter, through definition of inclusion and exclusion rules for trades to be marked as Red flag trades, which then undergo further investigation by the trading supervisors through a workflow developed in the application. The business rules are defined using log rules engine, which help determine the trades to be marked as Red flag trades. The application also additionally provides the Supervisory performance report, on the activities being performed by the trading supervisors, along with other Trend Reports.    Contribution:  • Responsible for understanding business requirements, analysis and development of reports and ensuring a smooth bug free delivery.  • Involved in migration of reports from BO 3.1 to BO 4.1.  • Involved in creation of high level detail design documents for reports using the Business requirement document and facilitating design sign off from the users.  • Involved in making necessary enhancements in the Business Objects universe.  • As a part of the development team I have developed crucial reports which met all the Business requirements. Responsible for assisting customers in resolving simple to intermediate issues by troubleshooting critical problems on mission critical deployments.  • Responsible for testing the reports to see if they meet the client's requirements.  • Involved in Design of Test Strategy, Creation of Unit Test Plan, Testing and logging Test Results.  • Tracking Defects found during testing.  • Preparing the SQL query to fit into the existing data model of the universe.  • Analyzing the SQL query for developing the BO report, which can be achieved in universe level and report level?  • Migrating of reports/universes from DEV, SIT, QA and UAT environment.  • Created complex User Prompts by using @prompt function at the universe level.  • Creating Publications basing on different requirements and scheduling them.  • Developed a new universe according to the new data model which is faster compared to the old DM.  • Set up aggregate awareness for the universe.    3. Project Name: GE Industrial RTS 2012  Client GE Energy, USA  Role Business Objects Developer  Organization Tech Mahindra  Team Size Project: 10 Module: 3  Environment (with skill versions) Languages: SQL  Database: Oracle 10g  Tools: Business Objects XI R3.1(Universe Designer, WebI Rich Client, DeskI, Import wizard, Infoview, Publishing wizard, CMC)  O/s: Windows XP    Project Description:  GE Industrial RTS 2012 is a production support project. The team was supporting the BOXI R3 Production environment. They were solving issues related to Break-fix in reports, Enhancements of reports (universe level or report level), Scheduling of reports, Data mismatch in report, Formatting, BO Server related, Universe Access to users, User Authentication, BOXI Installation etc.    Contribution:  • Understanding the Service requests/Incidents in TSG Service Now Tool(GE Product) raised by users for various issues.  • Solving issues related to Break-fix in reports, Enhancements of reports (universe level or report level), Scheduling of reports, Data mismatch in report, Formatting, BO Server related, Universe Access to users, User Authentication, BOXI Installation etc.  • Working harmonically with users and other related application teams (ETL, Source Team, DBA, UNIX etc).  • Arranging and attending calls with users and other related teams whenever required.  • Monitoring and sending status mail of scheduled reports for daily/weekly/monthly.  • Maintaining the application, changing/modifying existing reports etc.  • Migration of reports and universes from one environment to another.  • Handling outages and preparing MOM of weekly status calls.  • Raising tickets in SAP and working with SAP team for critical issues.  • Migrating of reports/universes from DEV, SIT, QA and UAT environment to Production  • Checking/monitoring health of the BO Production server.  • Assigning proper rights to users.    4. Project Name: Hungary Reporting CoE V2  Client GE Energy, Hungary  Role Business Objects Developer  Organization Tech Mahindra  Team Size Project: 5 Module: 2  Environment (with skill versions) Languages: SQL  Database: Oracle 10g  Tools: Business Objects XI R2(WebI, Designer)  O/s: Windows XP    Project Description:  Hungary Reporting CoE V2 project deals with migration of existing reporting application of GE, Hungary users to Business Objects environment.    Contribution:  • Understanding the functionality of the application.  • Understanding the customer supplied documents.  • Understanding the business requests clearly and addressing business concerns.  • Working harmonically with onsite counterpart and other related application teams.  • Implemented Business Objects functionalities like Derived table, Report level variables, Functions and Formulas etc.  • Responsible for the correctness of the reports in accordance with the requirement.  • Created User Prompts by using @prompt function at the universe level.  • Tuned the SQL query to reduce the execution time of the report.  • Developed the BO reports which will open a child report in PDF format by clicking the hyperlink in the parent report, by passing the required prompt values to the child report from the parent report.  • Arranging and attending calls with onsite members and other related teams whenever required.  • Maintaining the application, changing/modifying existing reports etc.  • Function design, coding, review and testing. Preparing status calls documents and release documents.    5. Project Name: Quality Metrics Reporting(QMR)  Client GE Energy, France  Role Business Objects Developer  Organization Tech Mahindra  Team Size Project: 7 Module: 2  Environment (with skill versions) Languages: PL/SQL  Database: Oracle 10g  Tools: Business Objects XI R2  O/s: Windows XP    Project Description:  Quality Metrics Reporting (QMR) project deals with creation of various types of Metrics reports (Vertical bar and Line, Vertical Grouped, Vertical Stacked and Pie Chart) for GE users.    Contribution:  • Gathering User Requirements. Analysis of the specifications provided by the clients  • Extensively involved in solving issues related to Cardinalities, Contexts, Joins and Aliases for resolving Loops and checked the Integrity of the Universes.  • Done Unit Testing, Data validation Testing and Integration Testing for the BO reports. Involved in writing test cases as well.    6. Project Name: Financial Services  Client Best Buy, USA  Role Business Objects/Crystal Report Developer  Organization Wipro Technologies  Team Size Project: 5 Module: 3  Environment (with skill versions) Languages: PL/SQL  Database: Teradata  Tools: Business Objects XI R2, Crystal Report 2008  O/s: Windows XP    Project Description:  Financial Services project deals with creation of various types of Business Objects reports for Best Buy users. It involves creation of various Cross tab, Master/Detail report, 2-D, 3-D column line, area and pie charts for graphical analysis.    Contribution:  • Extensively involved in solving issues related to Cardinalities, Contexts, Joins and Aliases for resolving Loops and checked the Integrity of the Universes.  • Created User Prompts, Conditions and Filters.  • Implemented Business Objects functionalities like Slice and Dice, Drill down, Functions and Formulas etc.  • Designed and modified the Crystal reports as per client's requirements.  • Done Unit Testing, System Testing, Data validation Testing and Integration Testing for the crystal reports.  • Executed the tasks under tight delivery schedules and delivered on time.    7. Project Name: TeamConnect  Client Mitratech, USA  Role Business Objects Developer  Organization VMoksha Technologies  Team Size Project: 3 Module: 2  Environment (with skill versions) Languages: PL/SQL  Database: Oracle 10g  Tools: Business Objects XI R2  O/s: Windows XP    Project Description:  TeamConnect platform is sophisticated and agile enough to serve the world's most complex legal organizations. It offers integrated matter management, e-Billing, legal hold, contracts management, entity management and compliance solutions. This projects deals with providing reporting solutions for TeamConnect product.    Contribution:  • Extensively involved in the designing and building of Universes, Classes and Objects.  • Created Universes by retrieving the data from various data sources, defining the connections necessary. Created Cardinalities, Contexts, Joins and Aliases for resolving Loops and checked the Integrity of the Universes. Created the reports using Business Objects functionalities like Slice and Dice, Drill down, Functions and Formulas etc.    Sl.No Organization Designation Duration Education Year of Passing B.P.U.T 2007 Skills Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Data visualization, Power bi, Tableau desktop, .net, Html, Reporting tools, Jira, Sap business objects, Tableau, Crystal reports, Sap, R3, Retail, Vendor management, Investment banking Links http://@prompt Additional Information Technical Skills    BI Reporting Tools SAP Business Objects 4.1(UDT, IDT, WebI Rich client, CMC, BI Launch pad etc.), BOXI R3.1, BO Administration, Crystal Reports  Data Visualization Tool Tableau Desktop 2018.2, Power BI  Databases Oracle 11g, MS SQL Server 2014/2012/2008, Maria DB  Agile Project Management JIRA  DB Tools Quest Toad, PL/SQL Developer  Languages PL/SQL, .NET, HTML  Domain Knowledge Consumer & Community Banking(Vendor Management, Clarity/Budget Reporting), Investment Banking, Energy, Retail