Programmer( Software Developer) Programmer(<span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>) Software Developer Rocklin, CA Highly motivated Software Developer with experience in developing ERP  modules and embedded software. Quick learner,task oriented, great analytical capability, adaptability to multinational environments.  Recently moved to Rocklin and looking for suitable professional opportunities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Programmer( Software Developer) BitAlb Software - Timisoara May 2017 to May 2019 • Understand and collect requirements from Business user side. Interact with  clients on a daily basis to understand the requirements of the project.  • Convert the Business Requirements to actual application using complex  SQL queries and coding tools. Design the interface of application and  implement the functionalities to back end.  • Write different T-SQL codes, Stored Procedures, User defined functions,  Views to fulfill the customer need.  • Closely work with Database administrators to understand the different  hardware and software requirements.  • Support the users in different database related issues. Analyze, solve, and  correct issues in real time while providing problem resolution from  end-to-end.  • Unit testing of application after issue fixing.  • SW development Tools: SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2016 run on  Windows 10, SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server database  designer tool. Programmer( Software Developer) Continental Automotive - Timisoara February 2015 to April 2017 • Actively involve in complete project life cycle, having completed 3 projects  successfully during my tenure.  • Analyze customer requirements to write software requirement specifications.  • Design, develop, deliver high-quality code for new features according to  requirements and specifications.  • Analyze, correct, and modify existing software.  • Resolve debugging issues encountered by customer and support team.  • Create, execute and document the module tests procedures.  • SW development environment and tools: Visual C, Visual Studio, GHS  Multi 2000, CANoe, Together Architect, PVCS Version Management, MKS  Integrity, GIT Accountant Creative Studio - Timisoara May 2006 to April 2010 • Financial accounting evidence;  • Check accounting documents and daily record in the accountancy program (clients accounting; suppliers accounting; treasuries accounting – cash register,etc)  • Draw up and check accountancy registry (sales register, acquisitions register, cash register, bank register, assets register, tax register, payroll);  • Do the monthly accounting balance, the yearly and periodical financial situation;  • Do and checking Financial Statements and Reports; Registered Nurse Clinical County Hospital, Medical Office Dr. Cica - Timisoara January 1994 to March 2004 Perform medical services Education Bachelor of Science in Accountancy and Financial Administration Software West University of Timisoara, Faculty of Economic Sciences - Timisoara October 2000 to July 2004 Associate of Science in Nursing Nursing College Ana Aslan - Timisoara September 1993 to July 1996 Skills SQL SERVER (2 years), ERP (2 years), C/C++ (2 years), T-SQL (2 years), TSQL Certifications/Licenses C/C++ course - IT School Company -Timisoara– 2014 2014 to Present Additional Information SKILLS    • SQL Server Software Development(designing, developing, testing, debugging)  • ERP software industry  • C/C++ programming language, Object Oriented Programming concepts  • Embedded systems product development  • Version control systems and change management  • Accounting