Senior C#.Net Developer Senior C#.Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior C#.Net Developer Birmingham, AL • Over 17 years working as .Net Software Architect, Team leader, Technical lead, implementing architectures using the last technologies, like MCV, Azure, SQL, using methodologies like UML, PMI, CMMI, Scrum, and 6 Sigma, as result providing innovative, scalable, robust and stable solutions, and the most important the client's satisfaction.  • Core skills include C# 7, NET 2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, ASP.NET, SQL Server 7-2012, T-SQL, SSIS, DTS, Reporting Services , Biztalk, WPF, WCF, Silverlight, MVVM, Xamarin, MVC, Silverlight, REST, Microsoft. Azure, Entity Framework, , Informix, Oracle 8, RedShift, , Crystal Reports, UI, LINQ, SOLID concept, reflection, GOF design patterns.  • Advanced knowledge of SQL server database and database modeling concepts, stored procedures and query building, like SSIS, Reporting Services, CRL Assemblies, and Advance Administration and improving performance.  • Experience in using Language-Integrated Query (LINQ to Objects, LINQ to XML, and LINQ to SQL) and retrieve data from different data sources.  • Proficient in various version control tools like TFS, SVN, VSS, GitHub.  • Hands on experience in reports development using SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS) and Crystal Reports.  • Profound hands on experience in Agile Methodology with Scrum and Complete Involvement in the Project Lifecycle and 6 sigma for a continuous improving.  • Extensive experience with computer technical support, information backups, software and hardware updates and network management.  • Strongest on code reviews to validate if the code is readable, maintainable and with high performance.  • A team player and self-motivator possessing excellent analytical, communication, problem solving, decision-making and organizational skills.  • Demonstrated strengths in communicating with all levels within organization, with excellent interpersonal, written and oral communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior C#.Net Developer 17.Net February 2015 to February 2017 Create, modify, maintenance and administration of sites, 17.Net applications (Web, mobile and Desktop), Cloud Migration, migrate 5 applications to Azure, Database Migrations for 20th Century Fox USA, managing a team, creating architecture, refactoring several applications applying the SOLID principles.    Responsibilities:  • My role as .Net Architect was design the migration for 5 web applications to Azure, I designed the new sites using MVC5, Angular 2, and DB Azure, using C#, I take the actual applications modules and the new requirements, to create the UML diagrams like the, users case diagram, sequence, activity, and design the test cases, classes diagram, and the deploy diagram, applying design patterns, some like singleton, bridge, command, chain of responsibility, decorator, façade, factory, and SOLID concepts to made them stable and scalable, as a result we get a very stable application in Azure, using MVC, Azure services and Factories to process work flows and process millions of records in seconds, I design how will be interact between SFTPs servers, the Azure websites, the Azures services, the mobile application in Xamarin, the encryption services, for files an transferring between Azure and the SFTP servers.  • Provide support for the users, create, update and administrate of sites, creating integration with Silverlight and external sites.  • Creating highly personalized tools to migrate files, and lists between sites, and export documents to Box.  • Improving Security over web sites to avoid external intrusions.  • Maintenance, develop new modules and administrate the users' permissions and support for FOX's CATMAN applications, applications that needed high availability.  • Created and improved legacy progress application using latest technologies ASP.NET WEB API, ASP.NET MVC, WCF, C#, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 which has boosted the User Experience and Responsive UI.  • Implemented Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) for code base using Team Foundation.  • Contributed towards Project Timeline and Estimation guided by SCRUM principles.  • Created automated build definitions in TFS to provide faster code deployment to servers to greatly support the Agile methodology goals.  • Create SQL Stored Procedures, CLR Assemblies, SSIS.  • Used Reporting Services.  • Suggested and implementedbusiness processrecommendations and security enhancements.  • Integrated with Progress applications to bridge the gap between legacy and new system.  • Built test automation framework for mobile application development using Xamarin.  • Contributed as a lead developer in the Agile/Scrum team.  • Designed and developed Database using SQL Server 2012, RedShift, Oracle.  • Integration between SSIS and RedShift  • I ran the DBA role for the SQL Database, helping to improve the performance of SP, triggers, indexes, creating maintenance plans.  • Utilized Team Foundation Server (TFS) as source code repository and TFS Task board for Sprint planning.  • Creation of complex report in Reporting Services and Crystal Reports.  • Integration between Silverlight and DropBox API.  Environment: C#, PL/SQL, SSIS, SQL 2008R2, Oracle, Crystal Reports, Design Patterns, UML, .Net Framework 4.0, Six sigma, PMI, Webservices, WCF, Scrum, BizTalk, MVC, Silverlight, HTML 5, jQuery, Reporting Services, Azure Factories, Azure Services, Azure DB, Kleopatra, SOLID. Technical Leader Accival - Banamex City Group - Mexico City, MX March 2013 to February 2015 C#.Net Developer    Createnew integration between the bank and broker areas, to perform capital transference between them, suggesting the Architecture and helping the developers to apply it.    Responsibilities:  • Work as a technical lead role, estimate software development cost and schedule, analyse and formulate design specifications and requirements to be assigned to my teammates  • I helped to design some refactoring in several applications to accomplish the SOLID concept and design the existing modules to improve performance in the DB, SP, functions, dtsx, reports, and I helped the programmers to apply the new concepts and classes in the new modules.  • Reviewer of analysis, design and implementation of application using ASP.Net, MVC Architectural Design Pattern, I had been involved during all full process for new requirements, working with the analysts, Team leaders, managers and customers to do the proposal of the migrations of the existing applications' modules.  • Involved in Deployment and Troubleshooting security issues in the application during Go Live.  • Involved in Database designs, Creating indexes, stored procedures, views, XML Schemas  • Developing the application using MVC, Entity Data Model and REST and WCF services.  • Developed Web pages using Asp.Net MCV, JSON, Html5 and Telerik controls.  • Using AJAX, JavaScript, and jQuery for web page development and Frontend validation.  • Implemented MVC Filters on Authentication, Authorization and others.  • Responsible for developing REST API and SOAP Web Services for back layer to be consumed by Web Applications.  • Implementation of Windows services using C#.  • Implement Agile Methodology focusing on TDD and Scrum.  • MS SQL utilized to store data from integration layer processing.  • TFS as a repository.  • Create reports on Reporting Services.  Environment: CRM 4.0, C#, PL/SQL, SSIS, SQL 2008R2, Oracle 9, IIS 7, MS Reports, Design Patterns, UML, .Net Framework 4.0, Six sigma, PMI, webservices, scrum, Flex 3.0. Technical Leader Nissan - Mexico City, MX November 2012 to March 2013 C#.Net Developer    Migration of 17 applications from VB6 to .Net 4.0, creating all life cycle of the software, take requirements, design the Architecture and developing the solutions.    Responsibilities:  • Migrated and improved legacy mainframe application using latest technologies ASP.NET MVC, C#, JQuery, Bootstrap, HTML5, has boosted the User Experience.  • Utilized Reverse engineer code to get the missing sourcecode.  • I created a template design to be used in all 17 applications to migrate from VB6 to .Net 4.0, this template used the MVC design using ajax and jquery for the UI, this help to improve the developing time to be faster and consistent between all systems, that's help to move developers between projects with a low learning curve, this help to save time in all projects and reuse several classes and UI.  • I coordinate the hole liberation process of the new systems, doing the switch and migration between databases and servers to redirect to the new sites  • Improved process flow of the existing system  • Integrated with SCADA process control system (PCS) for reporting daily metrics  • Developed the classes using C#, which incorporate Data Repository Pattern for database connectivity  • Designed and developed Database using SQL Server 2012  • Utilized Team Foundation Server (TFS) as source code repository  • We had planned finish in 12 months, but we accomplish it in 11 months including all full life cycle for the 17 systems.  Environment: C#, PL/SQL, SSIS, ASP.Net, AJAX, JQuery, LINQ, SQL 2008, Oracle 9, IIS 7, MVC, Reporting Services, Crystal Reports, Design Patterns, UML, .Net Framework 3.5 - 4.0, Enterprise Library 5, scrum. Team Leader/C#.NET Developer/Architect 20Th Century Fox - Mexico City, MX July 2010 to October 2012 Work for 20Th Century Fox, as Team leader, software Architect, for different kind of projects for the 20th century fox LA office, with 20 people on charge; Directly connected with LA office, in this project the principal role was as team leader, but I made activities as Developer, Architect too, many of the projects were simultaneous, I create several Architecture designs using SOLID and design patterns concepts.    Responsibilities:  • Work as a technical lead role, estimate software development cost and schedule, analyse and formulate design specifications and requirements to be assigned to my teammates.  • As Architect I was on charge to design the new changes over several applications, from taking the requirements, passing for the UML diagrams and developing the new systems, some of the new ones were in Silverlight using MVVM pattern, and design the interaction between the web application, I useddesign patters like singlenton, Façade, decorator, factory.  • Used Microsoft patterns & practices recommended PRISM framework withfeaturessuch as regions, modules, event aggregators, delegate commands in implementing (MVVM) Model-View-View-Model design pattern to develop RIA rich user interface (UI) WPF and Silverlight application.  • Development &maintenance of software for client switching centre, mobile and fixed exchanges.  • Support and training to users.  • Tested the application and documented the results, applied the correct fix to the issues found.  • Improve the security using SFTP in services.  • I had the role for DBA for SQL Server 2008, I improved the performance, from the SP, Triggers, creating Tables partitions, maintenance plans for daily backups.  • Migration from SQL 2000 to SQL 2008.  Environment: WFC, Silverlight 4, WPF, C#, PL/SQL, SSIS, ASP.Net, AJAX, JQuery, LINQ, SQL 2008, Oracle 9, IIS 7, BizTalk, MVC, MVVM, Telerik controls, Reporting Services, Crystal Reports, Design Patterns, UML, .Net Framework 3.5 - 4.0, HTML 5, Enterprise Library 5, Scrum, PGP encrypt using UI Kleopatra, SFTP protocols, SOLID. Software Architect Iron Bit - Mexico City, MX April 2010 to June 2010 Made a project for an Importation agency, to control the flow or merchandise trough the border, and maritime ports in Mexico, I take the requirements from the client and made the UML prototypes and architecture and the develop.    Responsibilities:  • As Architect I design the new application based in the analyst's user cases diagrams, the database design, the UI, after the client agree with the new design, I started to develop and coaching the rest of the developers in how to apply the architecture and show some solutions applying design patterns, best practices, and use the lasted of the .Net framework.  • Responsible for coding ASP.NETWeb forms which included coding, maintenance, worked on the Re-Design of Graphical User Interface (GUI) of web pages as per new.  • Worked on Client-Side validation as well as Server-side Validation by using JavaScript.  • Develop reusable User Controls for frequently required functionalities.  • Consumed WCF service from cool gen to read and display Loan transactions data.  • Create a Flows in BizTalk for process EDI files, and trigger workflows.  • I take the DBA role to create the full schema of the database.  • Creation of the QA testing check-up.  • Creation of reports and information sales in Reporting Services.  Environment: WFC, C#, ASP.Net, AJAX, JQuery, LinQ, SQL 2008, IIS 7, MVC, BizTalk, Reporting Services, Design Patterns, UML, .Net Framework 3.5, Enterprise Library 4.  CMMI, PMI, Scrum Software Architect Manager Philip Morris Intl - Mexico City, MX August 2008 to April 2010 Made 4 projects for Philip Morris Intl, this projects involve many areas like Legal, Marketing, Sales and Internal communication, I made the architecture, take the requirements and propose new solution for existing problems, like how make a flow to approve legal contracts using a digital signature and convert them in encrypted PDF document, or how create a system to a information module to administrate videos, information, internet access, multiple displays in all modules a cross over the country.  Many of the projects are simultaneous, I helped the Sales area to make a proposal and solution for many possible clients.    Responsibilities:  • Take the requirements from the final users.  • Design the architecture, using UML, Best practices and design patterns.  • Coordinate all areas to accomplish the project's scope.  • Perform a research over mobile scanner and create interface between the scanner and the application for legal contracts system.  • Coach the developers to accomplish the architecture and apply the best practices, and standardized code.  • Programming the most complex modules for the 4 systems.  • Compare multiple third controls to be used on the solutions, Ex: a PDF converter from RTF to PDF for .net 3.0.  • Create the full UML diagrams, like Use Case, Test Case, Activity, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams.  • QA for all projects creating peer review of the code and functionality.  • Create anAdd-in for outlook to download attachments.  • Create a stream service using TCP protocols to send files and video to informative modules over the country, all managed from a website (mobile and desktop)  • Create a configurable system to create a capture forms, triggering a workflow for digital signature, and approval from the legal area.  • I take the DBA Role to create the database schema and database objects like SP, Functions, CLR Assemblies, Index, maintenance plans.  • Creation of Sales reports in Reporting Services.  Environment: WFC, WPF, C#, C++, SSIS, ASP.Net, AJAX, JQuery, LinQ, SQL 2008, IIS 6, MVC, Reporting Services, Crystal Reports, Design Patterns, UML, .Net Framework 3.5 - 4.0, HTML 5, BizTalk Enterprise Library 5, PMI, BI, Agile, JavaScript. Software Architect Tequila regulatory Council December 2007 to June 2008 Made 4 projects, for different clients of Innevo, coordinating 4 teams of 16 developers, one project was a system to administrate the rent of photocopier for Xerox, supplies and maintenance, I made the architecture, take decision what technology to use and teach the developers how to use, I helped the Sales area to make a proposal and solution for many possible clients. Many of the projects are simultaneous    Responsibilities:  • Create the new Architecture bases in the Uses Cases delivered for the analyst.  • Create the basic structure form all 4 projects, creating the layers the classes and methods leaving it ready for the developers can work faster and only focus on create the methods needed.  • Create a new hole system to rent modules for Xerox, follow service requests, schedules from the service technicians.  • Migration data from D3 database to SQL server 2005.  • Create a capacitation to the developers to improve their skills in C# and SQL 2005.  • Support the sales team to offer different solution for the new clients or prospects.  • Administrating the TFS as a repository.  • Create a corporative framework to be used over different project as a template.  • Create some workflows to process Flat files, excel files in Biztalk.  • I take the role as DBA to create the database schemas and maintenance plans, providing access to the applications users and configuring the SQL Servers instances.  • Create WFC services to be consume for external systems of the Tequila factories.  • Creation of Sales report in Reporting Services and Crystal reports.  Environment: WFC, WPF, C#, C++, SSIS, ASP.Net, AJAX, JQuery, LinQ, SQL 2005, IIS 6, MVC, Reporting Services, Crystal Reports, Design Patterns, UML, .Net Framework 3.5, Enterprise Library, BizTalk, CMMI, PMI, Web Services, Scrum, JQuery, D3 Database. Software Architect GE - MX February 2007 to December 2007 Worked for GE in the insurance area, to make an upgrade to actual systems, I worked in Denver to analyse the current system and made proposal for the new architecture.    Responsibilities:  • Create new architecture for the migration of the insurance system from VB6 to .Net 2.0, using UML, best practices, design patterns.  • Made the complete analysis and documentation of the current system, using UML to design.  • Apply several fixes to the current application to stabilize it while we were creating the new system.  • Create user's manual for the delivery.  • Support for the installation over the final users.  • Coach the developers for any doubt on the architecture or improve their skills.  • Creation of PL objects for Oracle 8.  • Creating output documents in Crystal reports.  Environment: VB6, C#, PL/SQL, SSIS, SQL 2000, Oracle 8, IIS 6, Crystal Reports, Design Patterns, UML, .Net Framework 2.0, Six sigma, PMI, webservices, Scrum. Software Architect Philip Morris Intl., Forbes June 2005 to February 2007 Worked for two clients Forbes and Philip Morris Intl., for Forbes an insurance company I made the architecture from a system where the final users can administrate their insurance plans, for Philip Morris I made a several changeson a system made in Turkey, to adjust to regional requirements.    Responsibilities:  • Help the analyst to take the requirements from the final users and create the documents. And UML Diagrams.  • Create the full architecture and solution proposal for Forbes insurance.  • Create the templates for the code solutions and coach the developers.  • Managing the Source Safe 2005, as a repository  • Creating the screen layouts and design the UI.  • Giving technical support and fixing issues for the current applications of P. Morris.  • Improving the performance of SQL 7 and migrating to SQL 2000.  • Creating several webservices for external applications to send sales information to external applications.  • Create an interface between our sales systems and SAP.  • Creation complex sales report with Crystal Reports X.  Environment: VB6, C#, DTS, ASP.Net, ASP, Windows Forms, SQL 2000 SQL 7, IIS 6, Crystal Reports, .Net Framework 2.0, CMMI, PMI, Webservices, UML. Team Leader ISSSTE, Mabe, American Book Store, Hotel Real Hacienda April 2004 to June 2005 Made 4 projects, the most important was a system to makea medical appointment using phone or Internet, this system is used by ISSSTE is a governmental health organism in Mexico; I give support to the call center, all clinics in the country, remade some modules to adjust to the new requirements. Give maintenance to the servers and Databases.    Responsibilities:  • Migration form VB6 to .Net 1.0.  • DBA Role, creating all new schema, SP, Triggers, Indexes.  • Technical Support for the call-centre.  • Creation of Reports of the service data from the call-centre.  • Server maintenance of windows server 2000.  • Creation of webservices for external systems.  • Creation of the Architecture.  • Support to the sales team on proposal new solutions, and how accomplish them.  • Create a sale website for American Book store, using ASP.Net, and implementing the American Express API for credit card payment.  • Managing the American Express payment website.  • Giving support to the final users.  • Create a publicity web page for Hotel Real Hacienda, very simple, with only a contact page form to make a reservation.  Environment: VB6, C#, C++, DTS, ASP.Net, ASP, Windows Forms, SQL 2000, IIS 6, Crystal Reports, .Net Framework 2.0, CMMI, PMI, webservices, American Express payment API. Software Analyst Elektra - MX November 2003 to April 2004 Worked making analysis of business process and internal politics for al stores in the country and give support in the area to all other developers, give maintenance to the servers and Databases.    Responsibilities:  • Create new site for publish internal politics for national access in JPS and tomcat.  • Create database in SQL 2000, and giving maintenance plans.  • Give support to the end users in the systems.  • Improve performance for internal applications in VB6.  Environment: VB6, ASP, Windows Forms, SQL 2000, IIS 6, UML, tomcat, JSP, webservices Software Developer Wal-Mart, Mexico& Brazil November 2001 to November 2003 Responsible of Sam's club web site and superama online sales, I made new modules for the pages, upload new promotions in the web site, made internal intranets to administer the Marketing request for promotions, made the translation to Portuguese and deploy the web site in Sao Paulo Brazil and teach the developers to give maintenance to the Sam's Club Brazilian web site.    Responsibilities:  • Publish the new promotions on the Sam's Club Page.  • Give maintenance and create new sections from the Sam's Club Page.  • Implement the Brazilian Sam's Club page in Brazil 3 Months.  • Reengineering the Superama online sales website to improve performance and design.  • Implanted the process to show the product images on automated way, image treatments using Photoshop.  • Create new algorithms on the search to show related products or suggestions on the search.  • Automated interaction between Sam's Club page and AS400 data.  • Create new SP and functions or Informix database.  • Create automated testing in LoadRunner and Topaz.  • Support creating new section in BroadVision 6 for Walmart USA.  • Giving support to the Brazilian dev team.  • Create new graphic design on the pages to show new promotions.  • Creating Ajax like script to create asynchronous call between pages and ASP code.  Environment: VB6, ASP, Windows Forms, IIS 6, BroadVision 6, Cobol, AS400, JSP, Inofrmix, Unix, LoadRunner, Topaz Software Developer Vertigo Design - MX September 2001 to November 2001 Made a little website for an art gallery in Argentina working remotely in Mexico.    Responsibilities:  • Create the PHP and MySQL architecture.  • Create all JavaScript code to show the artthumbnails.  • Create a system to buy them online.  Environment:MySQL, PHP, Tomcat, Html, JavaScript Education Bachelor of Electronic Engineering in Electronic Engineering Technological Institute of Toluca - Toluca, MX Skills ASP (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), ARCHITECTURE (10+ years), .NET (10+ years), C# (10+ years) Additional Information • Professional Skills: Requirements specifications, Software architecture design and integration, Deployment planning, Database design - modeling, Business process design/reengineering  • Business knowledge: Retail, Insurance, Legal, Marketing, Sales, Entertainment, and Broker    Professional Skills:  Software Architecture, Software development, Requirement specifications, Testing, Software integration, Database design - modelling, Database Administration    Languages: .NET (C#), ASP, C/C++, C#, VB6, JavaScript, HTML.  Database: Oracle(PL/SQL), SQL Server (SSIS, Reporting Services, TSQL, CLR, XDTS, DTS), Informix, Redshift.  Server Software: Biztalk 2006- 2010  Development Tools: Visual Studio (98 - 2017), SQL Management Studio, BI Studio, Enterprise Architect, Xamarin Studio.  Mobile: Windows phone, Xamarin.  Testing systems: LoadRunner, Unit Test, TOPAZ  Web Technologies: ASP, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, ASP.NET, DHTML, XML, JQuery, JSON, Java Script, Bootstrap, Angular.  Operative Systems: Windows 98 -10, Windows Server 2000-2012.  Version Control: Team Foundation Server (TFS), GitHub, SVN, VSS.  Concepts:  Object-Oriented Programming, MVC, SOAP, REST, WCF, XML, UML, Web API, SAAS, SOA, QA (System Testing), Multiprocess Synchronization, SOLID    Software: Microsoft Visual Studio. Microsoft Interdev, NuGet, Postman, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visio, Enterprise Architect.  Others:  Photoshop, Maya and 3D studio, DirectX, XNA, Azure Factories, Azure DB, Azure Managment, Crystal Reports, Scrum, Agile, 6 Sigma, Unreal 4, Telerik, Infragisticts Controls, Rad Controls, External Payment Integration, PGP encrypt.