Machine Learning Software Developer Machine Learning <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Machine Learning Software Developer - Crelate INC Kirkland, WA • Experience in large datasets of structured and unstructured data, data visualization, data acquisition, predictive modeling, NLP / NLU / NLG / AI /Machine Learning / Deep Learning / Computer vision/ Probabilistic Graphical Models / Inferential statistics / Graph / Apache Spark / Data Validation.  • Experience in data preprocessing, developing different statistical machine learning model and data mining solutions to various business, generating data visualizations using Python, R, Tableau, Microsoft Power BI, version control with GIT.  • Experience in deep learning Convolutional Neural Network based image processing for images.  • Experience with deep learning LSTM and RNN based speech recognition using tensorflow.  • Experience in data mining algorithms and approach with good design techniques.  • Involved in all the phases of project life cycle including data acquisition (sampling methods: SRS/stratified/cluster/systematic/multistage), power analysis, A/B testing, Hypothesis testing, EDA (Univariate & Multivariate Analysis), data cleaning, data imputation (outlier detection via chi square detection, residual analysis, multivariate outlier detection), data transformation, features scaling, features engineering, statistical modeling both linear and nonlinear, dimensionality reduction using Factor Analysis, testing and validation using ROC plot, K- fold cross validation, statistical significance testing, data visualization.  • Python, Numpy, Scikit-Learn, genism, NLTK, Tensorflow, keras.  • Experience in Machine Learning, Statistics, Regression- Linear, Logistic, Poisson, Binomial.  • Highly skilled in designing visualizations using Tableau software and Storyline on web and desktop platforms, publishing and presenting dashboards.  • Proficient in Machine Learning techniques (LDA, Decision Trees, Linear, Logistics, Random Forest, SVM, Bayesian, XG Boost, K-Nearest Neighbors, Clustering) and Deep Learning techniques (CNNs, RNNs) and Statistical Modeling in Forecasting/ Predictive Analytics, Segmentation methodologies, Regression based models, Ensembles.  • Analyzed data using R, Hadoop and queried data using structured and unstructured databases.  • Strong programming expertise in Python and strong in Database SQL.  • Worked and extracted data from various database sources like Oracle, SQL Server.  • Solid coding and engineering skills in Machine Learning.  • Experience with file systems, server architectures, databases, SQL, and data movement (ETL)  • Proficient in Python, experience building, and product ionizing end-to-end systems.  • Knowledge of Information Extraction, NLP algorithms coupled with Deep Learning. Work Experience Machine Learning Software Developer Crelate INC - Kirkland, WA July 2018 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Built semantic search feature for searching candidates based on their job titles and skills by applying NLP and creating a machine learning model trained on 500K resumes which contains vocabulary of 195K unique words. Search also supports 22K job title synonyms and 2K skill search. It resulted in an increased volume of search by 5%  • Applied Natural language processing steps for tokenizing, stemming, named entity recognition and part of speech tagging of words.  • Used genism library for creating the word embedding using the skip gram approach for training the word vectors.  • Deployed the model as a web service using azure machine learning service. Created the Kubernetes cluster with docker image.  • Automated the whole process by using azure dev ops. Created web jobs and agent pools for triggering the staging and the build pipeline.  • Created candidate similarity feature based on resume document vectors to compare similarity between candidates and to recommend the top 10 candidates similar to a given candidate.  • Improved the document import process by making it asynchronous using azure async job queue. The pre-processing and parsing were made async to prevent CPU spiking on the webserver.  • Implemented job description keyword extractor by implementing RAKE algorithm.  • Designed LSTM network to improve resume parsing by creating a hybrid approach of using regular expressions and deep learning confidence levels to fetch unstructured data.  • Researched new concepts and technologies, built prototypes, created and deliver professional presentations designed to educate all staff members and critical stakeholders.    Environment: ER Studio 9.7, Tableau 9.03, AWS, Teradata 15, MDM, GIT, Unix, Python 3.5.2,, MLLib, SAS, regression, logistic regression, Hadoop, NoSQL, Teradata, OLTP, random forest, OLAP, HDFS, ODS, NLTK, SVM, JSON, XML, MapReduce. Machine Learning Instructor Id Tech Camps - Seattle, WA June 2018 to July 2018 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Instructed a class of 9 students. Teaching fundamentals of Python to acquire, preprocess and train models for generating predictions.  • Taught supervised, unsupervised learning methods and deep learning library Keras on top of Tensorflow to create neural networks. Mathematical and data manipulation libraries such as Scikit-learn, Pandas, Numpy and data visualization library Matplotlib.  • Image recognition and classification using MNIST, CIFAR 10 and CIFAR 100 dataset.  • Performed sentiment analysis using Naive Bayes theorem. Used Open Ai gym for reinforcement learning.  • Worked directly with upper executives to define requirements of scoring models.  • Developed a model for predicting repayment of debt owed to small and medium enterprise (SME) businesses.  • Developed a generic model for predicting repayment of debt owed in the healthcare, large commercial, and government sectors.  • Created SQL scripts and analyzed the data in MS Access/Excel and Worked on SQL and SAS script mapping.  • Developed a legal model for predicting which debtors respond to litigation only.    Environment: R, SQL, Python 2.7.x, SQL Server 2014, regression, logistic regression, random forest, neural networks, Topic Modeling, NLTK, SVM (Support Vector Machine), JSON, XML, HIVE, HADOOP, PIG, Sklearn, SciPy, Graph Lab, No SQL, SAS, SPSS, Spark, Hadoop, Kafka, HBase, MLib. Machine Learning Engineer Digipen Research & Development - Redmond, WA April 2017 to May 2018 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Researched and implemented a face recognition system for the institute.  • Developed a network program for setting up the server and supporting multiple clients for capturing video/image feed from multiple cameras.  • Developed a parser for performing data analysis of the images collected which helped automating the time keeping for the attendance system for the students as well as employees.  • Created course recommendation & grade prediction application. Also worked with camera drivers and embedded systems.  • Used the tool Weka for doing feature engineering.  • Assisted in time series prediction for Andretti Autosports for developing future Indy car race strategies. Built models and performed feature engineering. Used Tableau dashboards for data visualization.  • Scraped the indy car data from different sources using beautiful soup library and converted it into consumable json format.    Environment: R, SQL, Python 2.7.x, SQL Server SQL Server 2008, Oracle 9i, SQL*Loader, PL/SQL, ODS, OLAP, OLTP, SSAS, Informatica Power Center 8.1 Junior Software Developer MAAC August 2014 to May 2016 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Worked on developing android games for the animation studio with a team of artist, game designers and senior developers.  • Used unity game engine extensively for creating video games. Implemented the input controller logic, gameplay logic, and the UI for the game.  • Shipped 2 games over the course of 2 years.  • Integrated google ads and unity ads into the game for revenue generation.  • Provided support to senior developers and artist for importing assets into the engine and prepared documentation for the code base. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Digipen Institute Of Technology Bachelor Of Engineering in Information Technology L.D.R.P Institute Skills PYTHON (2 years), SQL (1 year), Git (1 year), ASP (Less than 1 year), ASP.NET (Less than 1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Python • Tensorflow • Unity 3D  • C / C++ • Linux • Microsoft Azure  • ASP.NET / C# • SQL • Git / TFS DevOps