Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - United Airlines Houston, TX • Over 12 years of experience in all aspects of software development life cycle (SDLC) starting from requirement analysis, designing, coding, testing, deployment, documentation, and maintaining application.  • Worked in Airlines, Technology, Mortgage, Insurance, Title, Real Estate, Ecommerce, property management and the Telecom Company.  • Experienced in Microsoft .NET Technologies in Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, C#, ASP.NET, MVC, Angular, HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX (Telerik controls and Ajax Controls tool kits), XML, XSL, ADO.NET, LINQ, Entity Framework, IIS, TFS 2010/2012, MS Visual Studio, and Share Point  • Expertise on developing Web Application and Windows Application using various Design Pattern and Models like Singleton, Factory and ASP.NET MVC.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Programming and Design using Inheritance, Polymorphism, Encapsulation and Abstraction.  • Experienced in creating and consuming Web Services, WCF (Windows Communication Foundation), and WEB API for software development  • Worked extensively on Relational Databases using SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) 2000/2005/2008, 2008 R2, 2012/ 2014 along with writing of complex Database Queries, Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, Views, Cursors using TSQL  • Used Toad and SQL Plus for Oracle using PL/SQL to create tables, stored procedures, packages, sequences.  • Experience in SQL Profiler, Normalization/ De normalization, Deadlock Management, Performance Tuning and Query Optimization  • Experienced in creating and updating Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexes to keep up the SQL Server Performance  • Experienced in Database Backup, Recovery and Disaster Recovery procedures.  • Experienced in Data Design and Development on Microsoft SQL Server 2014/2012/2008/2005/2000, T-SQL, Performance Tuning, Troubleshooting, SSIS/DTS Package Configuration, SSRS, SSAS and Data-warehousing.  • Experience in using Business Intelligence tools (SSIS, SSAS, SSRS) in MS SQL Server 2014/2012/2008/2005  • Expert in developing SSIS packages for Data Migration and Transformation (ETL) to and from various clients and automated packages using sql jobs.  • Created customized reports using SSRS according to client's/business requirements.  • Handled multiple projects and met tight deadlines.  • Strong communication skills with end users, onshore and offshore team members.  • Learned new technologies in work as needed and delivered the product. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Developer United Airlines - Houston, TX April 2014 to Present • Worked in the Financial System projects like Ticketing System, Data Center Migration, Card System, Chargebacks, Accertify, uSource, Sabrix, InterfaceBrokers, AP, Refunds, Fiscal, Fraud, Docuware, and Application/Production/Customer supports.  • Participated in requirement analysis and gathering by involving in daily, weekly, and monthly team meetings and client meetings following the Agile/Scrum methodology  • Created and enhanced multiple Web applications using various designed pattern like singleton, MVC, and 3-tier architecture.  • Ensures development of coding guidelines and best practices & standards, ensuring compliance to the developed coding standards from all developers on the team  • Provides clear, consistent, regular communication with all project stakeholders at all levels, including presentations to senior management, creating agendas and meeting minutes  • Created User Controls and Custom Controls for common purpose in the whole application  • Used jQuery and Java Script for client-side validations, pop out windows for notification and confirmations.  • Extensively used LINQ and ORM tools like Entity Framework and ADO.net to exchange data between web applications and database objects.  • Did PGP Encryption/Decryption for importing/exporting files and did file archived using public & private keys.  • Applied Business validations and rules at various levels using the ASP.NET validation controls  • Customized Web controls in item template of the Grid view and added drop drowns, textbox, buttons, checkbox to insert/update/delete data.  • Used multiple state managements such as Cache, Cookies, View State, Hidden Field, Query string, session to maintain session of pages and controls.  • Implemented WCF web services and asp.net application to consume transaction data from various source points for payment processing and created end points in the web config file.  • Consumed web services in project to get images of invoices from vendors and store in database as bytes.  • Created and deployed assemblies in GAC and used in project references.  • Hosted projects in IIS in DEV and Test environment for user testing  • Created web.config file for database connection strings, Security, Error Handling, Caching settings, Session states, and environment settings like Development/Staging/Production.  • Used TFS to check in, check out, merge code, version controls, and common repository for all developers for source code management.  • Worked directly with end users to test and refine the phase by phase development of application to meet requirements and deadlines.  • Did Unit testing, End to End testing, debugging and problem solving  • Developed Complex database objects like Stored Procedures, user defined functions, views, Packages, Cursors, Triggers, Sequences using SQL and PL/SQL  • Improved performance of tables, queries, and stored procedures by adding indexes, removing unnecessary joins, unnecessary columns, sub-queries, and cursors.  • Did validations, error handlings, commit and rollback of transaction in the asp.net pages, stored procedures, and packages as required.  • Implemented error handling in T-SQL stored procedure using try catch block and email notification/table logs for any failures.  • Created DB Links to migrate data between database servers  • Moved SQL jobs, database objects, reports, and projects to different servers for migration.  • Loaded Data into Oracle Tables using SQL Loader  • Migrated data into database from data warehouse and Teradata.  • Designed and deployed SSIS to import & export data to/from Flat File & CSV File from/to database and manipulated the datatype and length according to the requirements.  • Used an FTP task in a SSIS package to Send and receive files in different format  • Add package configuration and package parameters to ensure the package execution in another server.  • Created SQL jobs to run the operations and schedule them and email notification for any failures.  • Extracted data from internal data warehouse system to display reports using SSRS  • Generated various Monthly, Quarterly, Bi-Yearly, Yearly reports by different type of reports using SSRS  • Develop new reports and perform maintenance of existing SSRS reports  • Provided support interacting directly with business users and troubleshoot various projects and system as required, fixed issues, optimized, enhanced the system and documented in SharePoint.  • Created various work request and change request using Team Foundation Server (TFS) Sr. Software Developer Stewart Lender Service - Houston, TX September 2013 to March 2014 • Involved in daily 15 mins standup Meetings with all stake holders like team members, Analyst, Project Manager, DBAs, QAs, and Business users following the Agile/Scrum methodology. The sprint cycle was every two weeks and deployments on every other Wednesday night.  • Worked on multiple projects at the same time, mostly enhancements and supports to the existing projects.  • Worked on the windows application project called Lifeguard which is used by company to review the loan request by bank customers and moved the data to the Pool Management, which is web-based application.  • Worked on enhancement of different web applications and projects like Loss Mitigation System, PSM Printing, NPS, Recordation Management System.  • Worked as back-end and front-end developer using ASP.NET, APS.NET MVC, C#, JavaScript  • Used jQuery and java Scripts for client-side validations, pop out windows for notification and confirmations.  • Used ADO.net objects like Dataset, Data View and Data Adapter to manipulate and display data in data grid, grid view, dropdowns, and asp.net controls.  • Created web.config file for database connection strings, Security, Error Handling, Caching settings, Session states, and environment settings like Development/Staging/Production.  • Worked with ASP.NET Web Forms, Web Services, and State Management, caching features, configuring optimizations and securing the web application  • Use ASP.NET Validation controls for client-side validation of Server Controls.  • Responsible for implementing and deployment of WCF Services  • Used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) in ASP.Net pages  • Unit-tested during the whole code development process and participated actively in the integration testing  • Created and altered complex Stored Procedures, Views, Functions, Triggers using SQL server 2008 R2 to retrieve data from the database and manipulation of data into the database  • Used Temp table and table variable, TVP for bulk data move, and created and replaced cursors.  • Created Linked Servers to other databases and import data  • Creating new tables and backing up database in Dev/Test server.  • Working directly with business users and DBA's to fix and resolve daily issues if any.  • Implemented error handling in tsql stored procedure using try catch block and email notification/table logs for any failures.  • Did performance tuning and query optimization.  • Created and deployed SSIS packages to production, schedule them to run on routine basis and monitor error log for errors.  • Created SSIS packages to export and import data from CSV files, Text files and Excel spreadsheet. Involved in installation, configuration and developing of SSIS packages using BIDS.  • Created SQL and Visual Corns jobs to run the operations and schedule them for automation.  • Used SSRS for creating new and existing reports as the .rdl file and deploying them using stored procedure and parameters for search functionality.  • Created various work request and change request using TFS 2010/2012 and SharePoint.  • Did application support like data fix, bugs tracking, and provided solutions to fix the problem.  • Worked directly with business users for gathering requirements, designing, data analysis and testing. Sr. Software Developer United Airlines - Houston, TX May 2012 to July 2013 • Worked on multiple projects like Fuel Management System, Brainware, FAMEUA, FISCAL, Travel Card Management, WEB AP.  • Involved in designing and developing the User Interface in ASP.NET and used custom controls using Asp.Net, HTML and CSS to achieve uniform template design for the entire application  • Used various .NET server controls, JavaScript, and Ajax control Tool for creating ASP.NET web forms and pages.  • Created user input validation using various validators and security in page using Authentication and Authorization in in ASP.NET pages  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations, pop out windows for notification and confirmations.  • Migrated data and transaction from continental airlines to united airlines.  • Implemented error handling, exception management, tracing and error logging features  • Created the .config file to update the server environments, location, and the connection strings.  • Created and altered complex stored procedures, views, user defined functions, triggers using SQL server 2005/2008/R2 to retrieve data from the database and manipulation of data into the database  • Used Temp table and table variable, created Cursors and replaced cursors.  • Created and deployed SSIS and dts packages to import and export CSV files, Text files and Excel spreadsheet.  • Involved in installation, configuration and developing of SSIS packages using BIDS.  • Migrated SSIS Packages from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008.  • Created SQL jobs to run the operations and schedule them.  • Did Migration of database between Servers, backup of database, imported and exported of tables and rows of the database table.  • Performed unit testing, functional testing and system testing.  • Did trace and debugging and necessary data fix for the issues.  • Worked directly with business users and customers and created/ modified SSRS reports using sql queries.  • Worked in the support team to fix the ticket issued (production data fix), did major changes in the failed project and added system enhancement as assigned.  • Created various work request and change request using TFS/FAST TRACK bench. Sr. Software Developer Hewlett-Packard - Houston, TX January 2012 to April 2012 • Project Vista is the migration of legacy web application to the .Net framework. Vista has the same workflow, functionality, design as the old application but it is more users friendly. The new application includes missing functionality and is more dynamic for any future changes  • Participated in Requirement Analysis and designing in the Agile environment  • Worked with Onshore and Offshore teams, involved in weekly and monthly team meetings and client meetings  • Used various .NET server controls, JavaScript, and Ajax control Tool kits like Data grid, Update panel, calendar, cascading dropdown, Accordion, Drag Panel with extensive data binding  • Created dynamic validation for fields in page, which can be added or removed from database or ADMIN role in ASP.NET page.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations, pop out windows for notification and confirmations.  • Created security in page using Authentication and Authorization  • Created dynamic tracking of change in fields value in ASP.NET form as required by the clients for security purpose.  • Created Grid view to display courses in a well-defined manner arranged in multiple tabs with sorting and paging  • Use ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter, for consistent access to SQL data sources  • Worked with Entity Framework EDMX and ORM tool nHibernate for creating objects from database table  • Receiving and Sending data and information using XML web services  • Created Unit Test projects in NUnit for testing the business rules.  • Involved in project documentation and demo presentation for each phase of the application  • Involved in designing and developing the relational database and database objects.  • Created and modified Stored Procedures, Views, Functions, Triggers using SQL server 2008 to retrieve data from the database and manipulation of data into the database  • Migration of database between Servers, backup of database, imported and exported of tables and rows of the database table.  • Used SSIS package to populate data from excel to database, used lookup, derived column and conditional split to achieve the required data.  • Created and deployed SSIS and dts packages to import and export files.  • Created custom report and complex queries using TSQL queries, stored procedures and SSRS based on the business requirements.  • Experienced in software unit testing and efficient at fact-finding, root cause analysis and bug-fixing using debug and trace.  • Used Star Team for repository Software Developer First American Title Inc - Santa Ana, CA January 2011 to December 2011 • FAMOS is mainly focused for Employees of First American to ease their daily work activities. The goal of the project was to maintain the single page for the whole application, maintain all history and data of customers, automatic assigning of work and approving the customer for title and loan, maintaining security, creating reports with the help of web services and web application  • Used Agile Scrum Methodology and Repository Pattern for the development of project.  • Worked directly with business users for gathering requirements, designing, data analysis and testing.  • Involved in project documentation and demo presentation for each phase of the application  • Creating Web Forms and controls as the User Interface layer using ASP.NET  • Use ASP.NET Validation controls for client-side validation of Server Controls.  • Used LINQ to SQL queries and tables to retrieve data from the database.  • Used various .NET server controls and Telerik controls like DataGrid, Radgrid with extensive data binding to display, page and sort multiple records.  • Used Custom Validation and User Validation to give access to registered users  • Use ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter, for consistent access to SQL data sources  • Involved in designing and developing database diagram using relational database model  • Created Stored Procedures, Views, Functions, Triggers using SQL server 2008 to retrieve data from the database and manipulation of data into the database.  • Automated data load process using SSIS and dts packages  • Created and maintained SSIS ETL packages to extract data from different systems, and load variety of large volume data into data warehouse from different sources like flat file, Excel file.  • Designed and developed stored procedures, queries and views necessary to support SSRS reports  • Scheduled and managed daily/weekly/monthly sales and operational reports based on the business requirements.  • Experienced helping business users with production data fix, debug, trace of data in tables and fixing it.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for repository  • Used third party software to create reports in PDF and EXCEL Software Developer Advaitaa Technologies Inc - Bedford, TX March 2009 to November 2010 • Advaitaa Technologies Inc. sells auto, property, life and health insurance to more than 300,000 customers in Texas  • The project is mainly focused on the customer and the different small clients of the Insurance Company. The project stores the information of the customer only after registration, which provides user with username and password. The client will have username and password as well but different roles and more authentication and privilege than the customer. Customer can choose different insurance policies of their choice and have options of paying bills online, edit their profile, policies  • Used Agile Scrum Methodology for the development of the project.  • Participated in requirement Analysis and requirements gathering with business users and offshore/onshore teams.  • Created and enhanced various web and windows application using different design patterns, OOPS concepts, and .net technologies.  • Used various .NET server controls like DataGrid with extensive data binding to display, page and sort multiple records.  • Used state managements like View State, and session to maintain session of pages and controls.  • Developed Master pages to build consistent and maintainable user interface.  • Used ASP.NET Validation controls for client-side validation of Server Controls.  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter, for consistent access to SQL data sources  • Involved in Creating and consuming WCF service  • Used Data Contract as the standard mechanism in the WCF for serializing .NET object types into XML  • Developed client programs to consuming web services.  • Worked directly with end clients with demo presentation, test cases, and design outlook for all phases of project development to refine requirements for successful project  • Created Complex queries, Stored Procedures, Views, Functions, Triggers using TSQL to retrieve data from the database and manipulation of data into the database.  • Experienced in complete Database design process, which includes documentation and Database design stages till creating the database and script using SQL  • Designed and deployed SSIS packages for data migration and transformation from various clients.  • Extensively use Report Wizard, Report Builder and Report Manager for developing reports and deploying reports in SSRS.  • Worked directly with business users for gathering requirements, data analysis, testing, and documentation.  • Used SVN for repository Software Developer Interstate Batteries - Dallas, TX October 2006 to December 2008 • The Ecommerce portal was mainly focused for the online customers. It contains product categorization, search, payment and so forth. Advance tracking and sales report were also provided via portal to the admin users. The project also replaced legacy application and enhanced the customer experience  • Involved in SDLC of application developed using AGILE methodology  • Designed 3-tier architecture web application using C#, asp.net, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and ajax for presentation layer, business layer, and data layer.  • Created windows application and console application.  • Used .NET Master Pages, Validation controls, Content place holders, themes, CSS and Web Forms for UI development  • Use ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter, for consistent access to SQL data sources.  • Performed extensive Data Binding with various Server Controls like Grid View.  • Used JavaScript validations and pop out windows for notification.  • Implemented error handling, exception management, tracing and error logging features using .net classes.  • Created security in page using Authentication and Authorization in web.config page  • Used state managements like View State, and session to maintain session of pages and controls.  • Developed Web Services and invoking them by using XML SOAP and WSDL for creating proxy classes  • Created and deployed assemblies in GAC and used in project references.  • Hosted projects in IIS in DEV and Test environment for user testing  • Created web.config file for database connection strings, Security, Error Handling, Caching settings, Session states, and environment settings like Development/Staging/Production.  • Created stored procedures and user defined functions for code reuse and server overhead  • Developed/maintained SSIS packages for ETL process  • Setup SQL views to pull specific information for SSIS packages  • Retrieved data from data warehouse and created db links between servers for data migration.  • Designed & developed customized reports using Crystal Reports  • Worked with Microsoft Visual Source Safe for source control by creating a virtual library of computer files  • Worked directly with business users for gathering requirements, data analysis, testing, and documentation. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX Skills net (10+ years), ADO.net (10+ years), architecture. (7 years), ASP (10+ years), ASP.NET (10+ years), Business Intelligence (5 years), IIS (7 years), INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES (7 years), jQuery (5 years), MICROSOFT SSRS (10+ years), MICROSOFT TEAM FOUNDATION SERVER (6 years), MS ADO (10+ years), MS ASP (10+ years), Oracle (5 years), SQL (10+ years), SSRS (10+ years), Team Foundation Server (6 years), testing (10+ years), web services (10+ years), Javascript