Solutions Architect & Dev Team Lead Solutions Architect &amp; Dev Team Lead Solutions Architect & Dev Team Lead - Matrix-IFS Lithia, FL Work Experience Solutions Architect & Dev Team Lead Matrix-IFS June 2015 to Present Regulatory compliance projects implementation for financial industry clients.  Leading development team implementing regulatory compliance solutions for financial crime detection such as fraud money laundering and stock marker abuse.  - Designed technical solutions and led implementation teams during development, integration, testing and releases.  - Developed and customized financial crime detection models Using Actimize AIS Modeler.  - Customized web-based application for alerts management.  - Implemented ETL packages using Informatica and SSIS.  - Utilized C# and .Net framework 4.6, to implemented development support tools.  - Used TFS, SVN for version control and JIRA as Agile software development approach tool.  - Utilized: SQL Server 2014, Informatica, Actimize, SSIS, Batches, PowerShell, Unix shell scripts, Autosys, C#, Java Senior Software Engineer & Team Lead Matrix-IFS November 2006 to May 2015 Development of new Bank Mizrahi Branch Management System and Web Application.  Implemented branch management system processing trades/transactions, managing and monitoring teller's activity for Bank Mizrahi. My involvement was in design, development, integration and maintenance stages of the project.  - Object Oriented and Multithreaded programming using C# on .Net 4.5 Framework with Visual Studio .NET, TFS  - Implemented front end windows forms UI utilizing MVC pattern, based on Microsoft's composite UI application block (CAB)  - Developed Windows/Web Services and Web API. Utilized Microsoft's SNA, MSMQ and IBM's MQSeries.  - Web application development utilizing ASP.Net, Javascript, JQuery and Ajax.  - Utilized Oracle v11 DB, defined Schema, created PL/SQL DB scripts and stored procedures.  - Mentored Development Teams and junior developers.  - Performed as a back-end Team Lead for the last 2 years.  ? Better Place's systems integration Application.  Building an integration application between BMC's (BEM, Remedy), Tibco's (ESB) and MS-SQL Server products. My duties included Consulting, Design, Development and Coaching junior programmers.  - Object Oriented and Multithreaded programming with .Net 3.5 Framework using C#.  - Developed .Net API Wrapping C code.  - Developed WEB application using ASP.NET, which provides a configuration files to a particular device.  - Using MS-SQLServer 2008 DB, Defining Schema, writing DB scripts and stored procedures.  ? Bank of Jerusalem - Building SOA Gateway to Bank's Mainframe.  Implemented Service Oriented Gateway to provide a standard SOA entry point to Bank's Mainframe services. Solution based on a Pipeline design pattern and pluggable transformation engine.  - Developed WCF and Windows services using C# .Net 4 Framework.  - Optimized the solution by implementing of design time code generator used by the solution. Software Engineer CallingID November 2004 to November 2006 Web consumer fraud protection system  Since 2004 CallingID have been providing web consumer fraud protections to millions of web users by telling who you are dealing with in real-time using browser integrated toolbar and/or Link Advisor. I've been Involved in the back-end Design, Development, Deployment and Maintenance.  - Designed back-end software components Using Design Patterns  - Object Oriented and Multithreaded programming with .Net 1.1 Framework using C#  - Developed product's back-end services, supporting sub-systems, web applications and tools.  - Developed Web HTTP requests and HTML parsers, extracting HTML elements to be stored in SQL DB.  - Worked with MS-SQL Server 2005 DB. Defined all DB Schema objects and used Full Text search engine. Software Developer NetCore October 2003 to November 2004 E-learning system, Front and Back End development.  - Object oriented C# programming with .Net 1.0 Framework (Windows Forms client, Using TCP/IP protocol in client/server communication and Web services on the Server side).  - Developed web application managing college students, using ASP.NET and SQL Server 2000.  - Developed pictures capture driver using C. Education Bachelor of Software Engineering in Software Engineering SCE College of Engineering 1999 to 2003 Skills Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql Additional Information Software skills  (proficient): C#, DOT.NET, WCF, ASP.NET, IIS7, MSMQ, MS SQL Server, Oracle PL/SQL, Actimize, Informatica, SSIS (familiar): Web API, ASP.NET MVC, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular, JSON, WPF, MQSeries, Java, C++, Hadoop