Lead Software Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Lead Software Engineer - SchoolPass Phoenix, AZ Work Experience Lead Software Engineer SchoolPass - Baltimore, MD November 2017 to Present • Created .NET Core web api to use across entire platform  • Created and maintained Andoid Mobile Application  • Designed and immplemented Angular 7 web application for Visitor Management  • Handled deployment and maintenance of AWS and on site iis servers  • Updated and maintained SQL database (functions, stored procedures, backups)  • Lead team of engineers on site and contractors Senior Software Developer Harford Mutual - Bel Air, MD October 2016 to November 2017 • Created and maintained web services (REST and SOAP)  • Created .NET Core web applications using MVC  • Created client-side web applications using Angular as the platform  • Implemented cloud (azure) based services, apps and databases  • Created, updated, and managed SQL server for analysis and storage data  • Implemented new billing system using Guidewire and Gosu  • Worked in an Agile environment using TFS to track our progress Software Engineer II Omnitracs/Roadnet - Towson, MD September 2013 to October 2016 • Created WPF applications for better analysis of map data, including regression testing.  • Managed and maintained old code to enhance our map generation process.  • Added XML and JSON metadata to keep track of older builds.  • Created, updated, and managed SQL server for analysis and storage of map data.  • Worked on projects with MVC and MVVM frameworks.  • Worked in an Agile environment using JIRA to track our progress. GIS Technician CBRE - Phoenix, AZ January 2010 to August 2013 • Performed custom market research and material production based on needs of clients.  • Maintained SQL database of geocoded business locations.  • Implemented new mapping tools and templates.  • Established good working relationships with clients and brokers via Mapping Order System and personal communication, including communication of mapping center capabilities and resources.  • Headed a transition team to absorb the Chicago mapping research market into the national mapping center. GIS Technician Department of Water Resources - Phoenix, AZ January 2009 to January 2010 • Utilized ArcMap, ArcCatalog, ArcSDE, and Microsoft Access for database manipulation.  • Implemented Visual Basic code to streamline research processes.  • Worked closely with geologists, hydrologists, and GIS analysts to create industry-wide accessible data. National Weather Service (NOAA) - Radio Sonde Sensing - Phoenix, AZ 2008 to 2008 • Prepared and launched weather-monitoring balloons during monsoon season in Phoenix.  • Received, recorded, and analyzed upper air data to update monsoon tracking database and weather alerts. Engineering Intern Biodesign Institute - Phoenix, AZ 2006 to 2007 • Performed design and fabrication of micro-fluidic valving systems, including optimization of bonding temperature and pressure of Cyclic Olefin Copolymer and experimentation to find the best paraffin to temporarily separate valve chambers.  • Used AutoCad software to create valving systems. Education Master of Advanced Studies in GIS in GIS Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ 2009 Bachelor of Science in Geography in Meteorology Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ 2008 Point Loma Nazarene University - San Diego, CA 2004 to 2005 Skills Database, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, .net, Android, Git, Javascript, PHP, CSS