Co-founder Co-founder Full-Stack Architect Oldsmar, FL Full-stack architect seeking for part-time remote development work with javascript technologies such as ReactJS, ReactNative, Angular, Node.js. Work Experience Co-founder Clear Advance Technologies, LLC January 2017 to Present Building automated digital engagement system for the automotive dealers  ? http://www.clearat.com Sr. Principal Engineer Nielsen - Oldsmar, FL March 2016 to November 2018 Led development of browser level analytics tracking SDK/library using native Javascript  ? Streamlined development process utilizing Node.js, Gulp, Mocha, & Docker  ? Lead team in building Javascript testing framework using Mocha and Puppeteer  ? Implemented migration strategies from SVN to Git  ? Implemented architecture and migration of CI/CD and CDN services in AWS Full-Stack Architect Laicos LLC - Tampa, FL May 2014 to February 2016 Lead development of all mobile and web application project  ? Provided strategic direction to co-founders on defining the technology stack for the company  ? Developed hybrid mobile apps using Approver Steroids/Supersonic and Ionic  ? Built web application portals and widgets using AngularJS, Bootstrap, and Material  Design, and Polymer  ? Managed all hosting of apps within Openshift, Heroku, and Azure services  ? Implemented backend API, job services, and push notifications with Parse  ? Developed backend services to support mobile and web front-ends using Node.js, Express, and Sails.js  ? Architected database systems using MongoDB and SQL Azure  ? Implemented agile SCRUM development processes within the company  ? Trained and mentored teammates on UI/UX, development architecture, and SCRUM Sr. Software Developer PSCU - Tampa, FL May 2013 to May 2014 Worked as a cross-functional team member in a small Agile team that focuses on execution speed to satisfy client needs  ? Developed AngularJS web portal for member management of financial accounts  ? Built abstract data API solutions to serve transaction data to reporting front end systems  ? Created data automation solution to automate data importing process of incoming emails  and financial transaction data  ? Developed a hybrid mobile app and C# .Net backend API to manage the tracking and logging of gym usage by employees Sr. Software Developer PSCU - Tampa, FL May 2012 to May 2013 Lead project development on C# .Net web application projects, utilizing Knockout.js, CSS, and MV* concepts, to provide reporting services for client financial transactions  ? Mentored and trained system administrators within working projects  ? Managed database for application projects using Oracle and Raven Db  ? Created internal web application systems using AngularJS  ? Built automation system using Powershell to manage, parse, and import incoming  reporting flat files IT Manager/Architect DataPros for Healthcare - Tampa, FL September 2008 to May 2012 Developed innovative solutions that utilizes technology to improve the workflow of operation processes using .Net 2.0-3.5, SSIS, SSRS, Powershell, and SQL  ? Redesigned internal .Net 1.1 software system to support new data cleansing process using  Silverlight 4.0 and WCF  ? Built and maintained SQL Server databases, stored procedures, functions, views, triggers, SQL Agent jobs, and Reporting Services reports  ? Implemented SQL Server replication for production databases to provide redundant site  for failover  ? Managed SQL Server 2005 and 2008 performance, health, and services such as SSIS, SSRS, Database Mail, and backup plans  ? Transitioned .Net applications to SharePoint 2007 enterprise system  ? Implemented SharePoint 2010 with all departments to build internal ERP system  ? Reduced phone system cost by 70% with Skype PBX implementation  ? Implemented network infrastructure rebuild and reduced server cost by 30% moving to cloud computing with Amazon web services  ? Managed budgeting and purchasing of IT hardware and software  ? Project lead of initiatives to meet goals for annual IT strategy  ? Oversaw the implementation of Exchange Server 2010  ? Manage day to day activities within IT department and provided training and coaching  support for departmental employees  ? Provided technical consultation for all departments within company Lead Developer DataPros for Healthcare - Tampa, FL February 2008 to September 2008 Architected and lead the system implementation of internal help desk ticketing system  using .Net 2.0 C#  ? Provided SQL server administration with configuration, permissions, performance  tuning, database backup strategy, and development  ? Developed backend data structures to support data cleansing process for Research  department Jr. Developer DataPros for Healthcare - Tampa, FL January 2007 to February 2008 Developed and maintained contract management and reporting web application for healthcare providers using .Net 2.0 C#, ASP.Net, Javascript, Ajax, CSS, Enterprise  Library, and SQL  ? Maintained and implemented timecard tracking .Net 2.0 C# ASP.Net web application  ? Maintained existing .Net 1.1 C# and VB.Net data entry application and tools for data  cleansing process  ? Implemented inventory tracking system to track company IT hardware, software, and supplies using .Net 2.0 C# ASP.Net  ? Provided software maintenance and user support for internal web applications Programmer/Analyst III WebMD - Madeira Beach, FL September 2004 to January 2007 Implementation of .Net 2.0 C# windows application with MySQL backend  ? QA tester for internal .Net applications and tools  ? Maintained customize Xbase/Clipper software solutions for healthcare providers  ? Provided customer support and account management for clients Software Programmer CMS Research - Oshkosh, WI September 2003 to July 2004 Developed FoxPro, VB6, and .Net 1.1 VB.NET software with database backend  ? Maintain and customize inventory software for automotive dealerships  ? Provided software support for automotive dealership clients Education Bachelor's in Computer Science & Math University of Wisconsin Oshkosh - Oshkosh, WI 2004 Associate in Arts and Science University of Wisconsin Fond du Lac - Fond du Lac, WI 2001 Skills .NET, BACK END, C#, DOCKER, Git Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8bhi6gzbqohjja6b Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.