Scientific Apparatus Engineer/Trainer Scientific Apparatus Engineer/Trainer Senior Software Developer Fort Worth, TX Software Engineering with more than 15 years of experience. Strong analytical skills and a broad range of computer expertise. An excellent problem-solver, able to quickly grasp complex systems and identify opportunities for improvements and resolution of critical issues. An effective leader, initiated the scrum process within our company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Scientific Apparatus Engineer/Trainer UTA, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering - Arlington, TX September 2016 to Present Design and build scientific equipment for research applications. Write software to interface with the equipment. Write microcontroller code (STM32, RasPi, and Arduino) to control the equipment. Machine and 3D print custom parts for the development of the equipment. Work with students to help them learn how to design both software and hardware solutions. Lab manager for UTA ASTL department.    ·       Design specialized equipment using Solidworks 3D.  ·       Build robotic equipment to test loads and strain to simulate human interaction with a prosthetic leg.  ·       Design PCBs and microwave patch antennas using Eagle PCB Design and Sonnet EM.  ·       Write Android software for data acquisition and to visually display the data on a tablet/phone.  ·       Write C# applications to process and visualize the data on PCs. Senior Software Developer PEOPLEFLUENT, formerly Aquire Solutions Inc 2010 to 2016 Enhanced the OrgPublisher HR application and wrote many custom applications and scripts for our SaaS customer base. Continued to create new HR programs and applications for sale to fortune 500 companies.    • Wrote the OrgPublisher Silverlight application to replace the ActiveX version to keep the product up to date with the latest web technologies.  • Designed and wrote the SAP SSO ISAPI filter to allow OrgPublisher to integrate into the Netweaver portal. This allowed the company to sell our product to clients with SAP Netweaver environments.  • Added the Universal File Layout function to OrgPublisher to better integrate into many different types of HR database systems. This expanded the sales into many new customers.  • Wrote the Dutch and Brazilian Portuguese versions of OrgPublisher to sell to customers in those countries.  • Added 508 compliance to the application resulting in the ability to sell to government agencies requiring 508 compliance.  • Configured Azure servers to test and implement our client/server software in a cloud environment.  • Wrote data massaging programs for Target, CocaCola, and Toyota among others to import their HR database data into our HR programs using C#, VB.Net, and Visual Studio 2010/2012. Software Developer PEOPLEFLUENT, formerly Aquire Solutions Inc - Irving, TX 2000 to 2010 Enhance the OrgPublisher and UniFi database HR applications. Also created new programs and applications for sale to fortune 500 companies.    • Initiated the scrum process within our company, got our team scrum certified and became the scrum master of our team.  • Built a SAP IDES platform that allowed for development of integrated version of OrgPublisher into SAP thereby broadening sales into SAP HR platforms which later became the primary sales of OrgPublisher.  • Redesigned the OrgPublisher core application to allow for localization into other languages (MFC) allowing for global sales.  • Added graphic capabilities such as gradients and backgrounds to the OrgPublisher charting solution to enhance the presentation of customer organizational charts.  • Designed and implemented a web based demo environment (ASP.NET)for the PeopleFluent  line of products using Microsoft SQL server as the backend. The system allowed the PeopleFluent sales team and partners such as Accenture to demonstrate our software offerings.  • Certified our product for Oracle EBS and Peoplesoft HR to allow us to sell into these customer bases. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX October 2017 to December 2021 Vocational in Electrical Engineering Burlington County Vocational Technical HS - Mount Holly, NJ September 1979 to June 1983 Skills Languages: C/C++, C#, ASP.NET, VB.NET, Java, Javascript, Perl, XML/XSLT, HTML5 Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX (Linux, Solaris), IOS, Android Database: Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle PL/SQL, MySQL Source Code Management: TFS, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, CVS Development Environments: Visual Studio 2005/2010/2012, Eclipse, Solidworks 3D CAD, Eagle PCB Dersign (10+ years), MySQL, Android, ASP, Javascript, CSS, HTML 5, Git Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jimskilskyj Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified September 1997 to Present HSP October 2016 to Present Human Subjects Protection Training HIPAA November 2016 to Present Research HIPAA training and certification Publications Flexible textile antenna sensor for bio-impedance sensing/A compact, low-cost, real-time interrogation system for dynamic interrogation of microstrip patch antenna sensor https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/search/q=james%20skilskyj&sort=date%20desc%2C%20bibcode%20desc&p_=0 This paper presents the realization of antenna sensors on flexible textile substrates for bio-impedance measurements. A T-resonator technique was employed to characterize the dielectric constant of various textile materials and to evaluate how the human tissue, functioning as the superstrate, influence the effective dielectric constant.    This paper presents the development of a low cost interrogation system that can dynamically interrogate the antenna sensor and wirelessly transmit the acquired data to a smart device. Additional Information Microsoft MFC development.  SAP software solutions and SAP Netweaver development.  Renasas RL/RX development and AT&T TI IoT / REST development.  MATLAB and LabView.