IT System Integrator IT System Integrator IT System Integrator - Marathon Petroleum Corporation Findlay, OH Sean Hallstrom is an experienced web-based application developer with expertise with C#, ASP.NET, JavaScript, HTML, API, and SQL Server. Work Experience IT System Integrator Marathon Petroleum Corporation - Findlay, OH April 2017 to Present Was responsible for the design and development of a custom web-based application that monitored oil reserves and factors that could influence cost of storage and profitability of processing as well as monitor refinery equipment to identify possible maintenance issues. Primary duties included:  • Developed front end interface using C#, ASP.NET, MVC, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Developed and utilized web APIs utilizing C#, ASP.NET, and SQL Server.  • Developed application business logic using C#  • Designed and developed SQL Server Tables and Indexes. Application Developer US Acute Care Solutions August 2015 to April 2017 Was responsible for the design and development of web-based applications that allowed US Acute Care physicians to easily transfer between hospital facilities or to be granted privileges at new facilities to provide medical services in emergency rooms. Primary projects included:  • Designed and developed a web-based credential management portal that allowed physicians to store necessary documentation to prove/obtain practicing privileges at facilities. This application was developed utilizing Java, JSP, and Angular with a SQL Server database.  • Designed and developed a retirement investment tracking application that allowed company executives to track stock prices and other investments in the organization's retirement account. This application was developed utilizing Java, JSP, and Angular with a SQL Server database. Also, developed a C# API. Software Developer TTL Systems Inc - Hudson, OH February 2015 to August 2015 Hudson, Ohio  Designed and developed new applications to serve customer needs to include Mapping, real-time scheduling via web, and time tracking utilizing Visual Studio, C#, ASP.NET, Web Forms, SQL Server, and some SSRS. Software Developer AmTrust Financial Services, Inc December 2013 to May 2014 Was responsible for developing bug fixes and modifying Web Forms utilizing Visual Basic and SQL Server Education Bachelor of Arts Kent State University 2008 Skills Sql server, Sql, Asp, Asp.net, Api Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    C#, Visual Basic.NET, ASP.NET, API, SQL Server, Angular, Java, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, MVC