Software Developer II <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> II Software Developer II - HCN Network Miami, FL • Over 10 years of experience designing, developing and supporting systems and database solutions.  • Expert in Database Analysis, Design and Development.  • Expert in advanced reports design and implementation with Power BI and SSRS.  • Installing, configuring and maintaining SQL Server environments.  • Extensive knowledge developing reports with several tools such as Power BI, Tableau and SSRS.  • Teaching experience as a University Professor in subjects such as Databases, Software Engineering and Object-Oriented Programming.  • Team player with strong mathematical, analytical and problem-solving capabilities.  • Restrict data access for given users using Row-level security (RLS) Power BI Work Experience Software Developer II HCN Network - Miami, FL 2019 to Present • Tuning of Reports by validating SQL against database and troubleshoot reports that are not providing accurate data due to custom SQL codes. Designed and develop SSIS packages to Extract transform and load data from various data sources into SQL server and to automate different FTP's files and emailing to different clients. Creating Tabular reports, Matrix reports, List & Chart reports, Parameterized reports, Sub reports, Ad-hoc reports, Drill down reports as well as interactive reports according to business requirements in time restricted environment and Complex Reports (sub reports, graphical, multiple groupings, drilldowns, parameter driven, formulas, summarized and conditional formatting) using SSRS. Worked as a developer in creating Complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Indexes, Tables, Views and other T_SQL code and SQL joins for applications. Maintains database systems to ensure their proper operation and performance. Develops new database processes and reports to improve operations and HCN current database applications. Determines operational feasibility by evaluating analysis, problem definition, requirements, solution development, and proposed solutions. Fixes issues and problems related with the Business Intelligence Department in the minimum time with maximum quality.  • Designed and developed Power BI graphical and visualization solutions with business requirement documents and plans for creating interactive dashboards. Utilized Power Query in Power BI to Pivot and Un-pivot the data model for data cleansing and data massaging. Implemented several DAX functions for various fact calculations for efficient data visualization in Power BI. Utilized Power BI gateway to keep dashboards and reports up to-date with on premise data sources, Migrated existing self-service reports and AD-Hoc reports to Power BI. Developed custom calculated measures using DAX to satisfy business needs. Configure, manage and define filters that restrict data access using Row-level security (RLS) (SQL Server, Power BI, SSIS, SSRS, Excel) Consultant HDH Medical Centers Inc - Miami, FL 2017 to Present • Designed, deployed, and maintained various SSRS Reports in SQL Server. Created Sub-Reports, ad-hoc reports, Drilldown-Reports, Summary reports, and Cross Tab reports. Actively participated in gathering Business Requirements that are focused on providing a user-friendly System usage. Created ETL metadata reports using SSRS. Design and develop SSIS packages, store procedures, configuration files, tables, views, and functions by implementing best practices to maintain optimal performance. Used different Control Flow Tasks and Data Flow Task for Creating SSIS Packages. Used different types of Transformations for Data Conversion. Sorting and cleaning the data from different Sources into Company Format. Created Drill down and drill through reports in SSRS. Created SSIS packages to import data from MS Access, Excel to SQL Server. Optimized the query performance with modification in T-SQL queries, removing unnecessary columns, eliminating redundant and inconsistent data. Developed and created the new database objects including tables, views, stored procedures and functions. Use of Power BI to create advanced reports such as Drill Down, KPIs, Maps Views, Gauges and Charts, and combine them on Dashboards using filters and linked sources that help the executive teams to take important decisions. Develop Power Bi reports/dashboard on mobile and online and manage permissions and access. (SQL Server, Power BI, SSIS, SSRS, Excel, MS Access).  • Designed and developed Power BI graphical and visualization solutions with business requirement documents and plans for creating interactive dashboards. Utilized Power BI to create various analytical dashboards that depicts critical KPIs such as patient history, billing and case proceedings. Generated ad-hoc reports in Excel Power Pivot and sheared them using Power BI to the decision makers for strategic planning. Utilized Power Query in Power BI to Pivot and Un-pivot the data model for data cleansing and data massaging. Implemented several DAX functions for various fact calculations for efficient data visualization in Power BI. Utilized Power BI gateway to keep dashboards and reports up to-date with on premise data sources. (Excel, Power BI, DAX). Software Developer Zunzun AB Company - Miami, FL 2014 to 2017 • Zunzun AB collects data about website visitor behavior and sends it to the AI engine where it is analyzed and optimized for performance. This provides an automatic way of going beyond handmade conventional optimizations, and makes it possible to learn, predict, and act pro-actively on web-traffic. Analysis, design and implementation of a database to store this information was part of my job there. Also, to implement functions, triggers, and store procedures to support dashboards with several reports, and charts that the customers use to know how the websites behave under certain circumstances. (MSSQL, T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS).  • Optimization of queries for reports that take longer execution time.  • Created Workspace and content packs for business users to view the developed reports. Scheduled Automatic refresh and scheduling refresh in Power BI service. Develop complex Stored Procedures and views to generate various Drill-through, Drill Down reports, parameterized reports and linked reports using SSRS. Explore data in a Variety of ways and across multiple visualizations using Power BI. Responsible for creating SQL datasets for Power BI, SSRS and Ad-hoc Reports. Integrated custom visuals based on business requirements using Power BI Desktop. Provided continued development and maintenance of bug fixes for the existing and new Power BI Reports. (MSSQL, T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS, Power BI). Specialist in Computer Science High Education Center - Caracas, VE 2012 to 2013 • Design and implementation of a Hospital Management System for Disabilities that collected and integrated the information of people with special needs and medical resources available by area. Development of the necessary ETL packages and reports. Also, the database administration and support tasks. (SQL Server, SSIS, SSRS, Excel, Microsoft Access).  • Programming of ETL packages to extract data from external sources, integration into the enterprise Data warehouse and data cleanse and correlation. Besides development of several SSRS reports. (MSSQL, T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS, Excel, Microsoft Access).  • Responsible for building and supporting Patient Access applications such as: Patient Registration, Payer Contracting, and Insurance Verification. Created Triggers, Views for Audit and security purposes. Created mapping tables to find out the missing attributes for the ETL process. Created SQL Jobs to schedule SSIS Packages. Created reports in SSRS with different type of properties like chart controls, filters, Interactive Sorting, SQL parameters etc. (SQL Server, SSIS, SSRS, Excel, Microsoft Access). Researcher and Developer Advanced Databases and Information Systems Research Group (ADIS) 2006 to 2012 • Design and implementation of an Automatic System for the Transport's Maintenance control. Development of several reports and processing financial operations. (Delphi, SQL Server, Quick Report, Crystal Report and Database query programming (T-SQL).  • Design and implementation of the Scholarship Control System for the University of Camaguey. (MySQL Server, C#).  • Member of the design and implementation team of the Human Resources Control Systems for the University of Camaguey. Development and Implementation of database and several reports. (SQL Server, Quick Report and Delphi).  • Teaching classes in several subjects such as Databases, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, Software Engineering, Microsoft Access and Visual Basic.  • Ability to create process flow diagram and Reports. Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Camaguey 2006 to 2007 Bachelor in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering University of Camaguey 2000 to 2005 Skills SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2005, MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, SQL, SSRS, TABLEAU, T-SQL, POWER BI, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, ANALYSIS SERVICES, C#, REPORTING TOOLS, RATIONAL, CRYSTAL REPORT, FRAMEWORKS, RUP, EXCEL, INTEGRATION Certifications/Licenses DAT207x: Analyzing and Visualizing Data with Power BI March 2019 to Present https://courses.edx.org/certificates/92fbbda6673f437e8ad8f19df6e88a05 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Databases SQL Server 2005-2016, T-SQL, PostgreSQL, Access Databases, MySQL Server, Amazon Redshift Knowledge  Business Intelligence and Reporting Tools  Reporting Services (SSRS), Integration Services (SSIS), Analysis Services (SSAS), Excel, Power BI, Tableau, Crystal Report, Quick Report    Programming Languages, Frameworks and IDE DAX, Microsoft Visual Studio, SSMS, C#  Methodologies Rational Unified Process (RUP), XP.