Software Architect <span class="hl">Software</span> Architect AWS Certified Chandler, AZ ? 15 years of experience in software architecture, development, deployment and maintenance.    ? Architected Microservices by defining authentication, authorization, API contract, domain, and deployment model.    ? Evaluated third party vendors for system integrations.    ? Developed proof of concepts and presented findings to Product and Development teams as appropriate.    ? Worked with Product Owners to understand requirement, identify and refine user stories and tasks.    ? Worked with the development teams to ensure that the product vision is met by conducting whiteboard design sessions.    ? Mentored developers and conducted sessions/presentations on Microservice Design Patterns, Microservice Security, Migrating from Monolith to Microservice architecture, AWS Serverless, etc.    ? Experience with Agile ceremonies - discovery, big room planning, refinement, standups, retrospective, and demos. Work Experience Software Architect Glynlyon - Chandler, AZ January 2013 to Present Served as microservice architect for Classpace product.  This involved:  ? Working with Product Owner to understand the requirements and refining user stories.  ? Designing high level system architecture.  ? Defining the interactions between services and UI using RESTful APIs.  ? Writing API documentation for services  ? Conducting whiteboard sessions with developers.  ? Worked with dev team to improve reliability, performance, and availability of our LMS application.  Few mentions:  ? Developing POC to replace exiting Glassfish DB connection pooler with HikariCP.  ? Developing POC to use Redis for sharing session in our clustered web application.  ? Architecting asynchronous approach (using ActiveMQ) to improve reliability of some of jobs.  ? Working with developers to improve rending of our web application by tuning DB queries, using Redis for caching content, code optimization, etc.  ? Performed several third-party vendor evaluations like:  Cloud Identity Provider - Auth0 (vs) Okta  Learning Record Store(LRS) - Learning Locker (vs) Yet Analytics  Digital Asset Management (DAM) - Widen (vs) LearningMate  This involved:  ? Meeting (remote) with their Sale Engineer and Account Managers.  ? Developing proof of concepts to compare and contrast different vendor features and limitations.  ? Discuss pricing.  ? Architecting solution to integrate the selected product.  ? Whiteboard sessions with developer teams to discuss the design.  ? Helped developers understand core concepts by conducting sessions on:  ? Microservice design patterns  ? Security in RESTful Microservice  ? AWS Serverless 101    Technology Stack:  Architecture tools: Gliffy for diagrams, API Blueprint for documentation  Backend: SpringBoot, Grails, and Hibernate  Frontend: HTML, CSS, JQuery, and Angular  Language: Groovy, and Java  Caching: Redis  JMS: ActiveMQ, AWS SQS  Database: Postgres - both on premise and on AWS RDS  Source Repo: Git (Bitbucket and Github)  Server: Glassfish, and Tomcat (both on premise and on AWS - EC2)  Monitoring: AppDynamics  Build and Deployment: Jenkins Apps Systems Engineer Wells Fargo - Chandler, AZ June 2012 to January 2013 Part of Platform Engineering team which provides Solution governance, evaluated technical readiness of Lending Grid projects, conducted design review meeting, and provided design recommendation and potential solutions.  ? Prepared Case Study Documents: Patterns for Asynchronous Web Service Invocation.  ? Designed detailed level checklist to guide project teams to prepare design document. Lead / Sr. Software Developer Apollo Group - Tempe, AZ May 2011 to June 2012 Designed/ developed complex business solution using BPEL workflows, Spring Web Service - ActiveMQ messaging - Oracle AQ - Oracle Database.  ? Lead the team to implement a framework for executing Business Rules using Spring - WS, Drools Rule Engine, Drools Guvnor.  ? Worked on Maven based projects which were integrated with Bamboo for Continuous Integration (CI) and used Clover for junit code coverage.  ? Extensively involved in requirement gathering, designing solution, development, testing and deployment. Sr. Java Developer Wells Fargo - Chandler, AZ February 2010 to April 2011 Evaluated 2 leading Rule Engines: ILOG JRules and Blaze Advisor 6.6.  This work involved:  ? evaluating features, limitations, developing sample rule projects,  ? integrating with j2ee application and deploying in Weblogic application server.  ? Case study was presented to the team with demo.  ? Integrated Blaze Rule Advisor with existing J2EE application.  ? Conducted brown-bag sessions on Drools Rule Engine, Blaze Rule Advisor, IBM JRules  ? Prepared High Level design document (HLDS), mockups, user guides (for both clients and developers) and application support documents for project. Project Lead / Sr. Java Developer Freescale Semiconductors - Tempe, AZ July 2004 to December 2009 Developed eCommerce application that included shopping cart application, notification module for sending mails during Order Processing, admin modules for order management and coupon generation-management.  ? Developed Taxonomy cache (in-memory representation of Asset Hierarchy) to improve rending content to users. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Mumbai University Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solution Architect Associate October 2021 AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner May 2021