Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Belcan Engineering Georgetown, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Belcan Engineering - Lexington, KY November 2015 to Present • Involved in design and testing of control systems for the Pratt & Whitney PW1000G series high-bypass geared turbofan engine family.  • Helped create tool to automate the review process of functional software tests.  • Rewrote expected results requirements for functional software tests in order to standardize formatting for automation tool.  • Designing and implementing changes to the Control System logic and requirements being driven by customer requests and findings based on in-flight and bench testing data.  • Working closely with customer's hardware supplier to update hardware requirements to achieve set performance goals and maintain adherence to requirements in place.  • Current Belcan systems expert for Starting, Lube, and Air Systems IPTs. Web Developer eLink Design, Inc - Lexington, KY March 2015 to November 2015 • Primary duties included designing and coding features for small and large projects as well as updates for existing websites and managing fallout for website launches.  • Front-end and back-end design of websites across a variety of different disciplines.  • Back end programming language used was primarily PHP and some C#  • Used GIT for revision control for large scale projects, Composer for dependency management.  • Experience in using messaging and communication protocols such as JSON, cURL, SOAP, REST APIs, and OAuth.  • Front-end development experience including HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • SQL Database interaction using MySQL and MSSQL. Education Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY May 2014 Bachelor's in Computer Engineering University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY May 2014 Skills C# (1 year), GIT (1 year), JavaScript (2 years), PHP (3 years), SQL (3 years), Jquery Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Software - Labview, Keil uVision Cadence, Spice, Xilinx, MATLAB, Microsoft Office, Visio, IBM Rational DOORs, Mantis BugTracker, Xamarin  Programming Languages - PHP, C++, C#, JavaScript, SQL, C, Ruby, Java, Perl, Python  Various Other Technologies - Doctrine, Node.js, GIT, Composer, Linux