Shopify Software Developer Shopify <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Experienced Shopify Software Developer - Remote Miami, FL Over 25 years of software development experience. Strong full stack developer. Currently seeking a remote position. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Shopify Software Developer Software Factory - Miami, FL January 2017 to Present Architect, design and develop custom integrated Shopify solutions for  online stores, including front-end customization, API integrations,  custom admin fields, and dynamic page content.  • Increase store conversion rates through speed optimization, streamline navigation and a smooth cart and checkout flow.  • Enhance Shopify stores by adding facebook login, volume pricing on  products, installing and configuring apps, discounts on cart abandonment, upsales, & cross-sales.  • Liquid, HTML5, CSS3, Media Queries, JavaScript, React JS, PHP, HTML5  UI/UX, REST, T-SQL CSS3 Developer II - eCommerce UA Brands - Fort Lauderdale, FL December 2015 to August 2016 • Build new features for their 7 online stores selling scrubs, uniforms, and printed apparel.   • Contribute in product owner meetings, advising and strategizing on how to grow the company's sales.  • Design, update and test websites to make them responsive and easily viewed on various mobile devices.  • HTML5, CSS3, SASS, REST, Media Queries, SASS, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, UI/UX, BitBucket, ASP.NET, C#, T-SQL Senior Software Engineer Advantage Rent A Car - Fort Lauderdale, FL December 2014 to December 2015 • Lead developer in the company's initiative to gain car rentals from the  mobile smartphone market through responsive mobile websites.   Responsible for converting site to mobile first design.  • ASP.NET, HTML5, CSS3, Media Queries, AngularJS, JavaScript, UI/UX, Web UI Developer LexisNexis - Boca Raton, FL February 2014 to November 2014 • Create software enhancements to authentication, interactivity, and performance to their $2 Billion/yr grossing background check web  software reporting fraudulent activity from 40 countries.  • HTML5, CSS3, Media Queries, Knockout JS MVC, Bootstrap, MySQL, C# ASP.NET eCommerce Product Owner & Web Developer MovieTickets.com - Boca Raton, FL April 2012 to February 2014 • Redesign website and apply web user analytics to increase user  engagement and increase movie ticket online sales internationally.  • Create website interactivity through dynamic media content,  crowdsourced review platform integration, implemented advertising  platform integration, and onsite animations within sliders, and accordians.  • ASP.NET, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JavaScript,  UI/UX, TFS, C#, T-SQL Senior Software Engineer Vitacost.com - Boca Raton, FL October 2010 to April 2012 • Led analysis, redesign and conversion initiatives for product sales and  eCommerce website making it rank in the top 5 converting websites, grossing over $240 Million a year.   • HTML5, CSS3, Media Queries, CMS, JavaScript, Vendor Integrations,  Pixels, UI/UX, Web Analytics, BI, ASP.NET, T-SQL Senior Software Engineer Hospital Physician Partners - Hollywood, FL March 2010 to October 2010 • Created authentication system for healthcare scheduling and billing weighing all sides, independently  software according to compliance and regulatory requirements.  • ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, Media Queries, SASS, JavaScript, UI/UX, C#,  Roles, Routing, T-SQL Internationalization Specialist Ryder System - Miami, FL August 2009 to March 2010 • Enhanced Ryder System' online Used Vehicle Sales (UVS) website to cater to an international market, adding features to support multi-lingual and multi-currency sales.   • Implemented Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques to raise Business Intelligence to drive UI/UX  page rankings through the use of a more verbose product description,  strategic keywords, and related page and content changes.   • ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, SSIS, JavaScript, UI/UX, C#, Roles, Routing, T-SQL Remote Software Engineer - Professional Services Cybrant/Blue Martini/Ecometry/Escalate Retail/RedPrairie - Boca Raton, FL February 2000 to February 2006 • Customized proprietary eCommerce platform with business rules and product configuration for high profile clients such as Nokia and GM.  • Built an object oriented JavaScript configurator for Cisco to design a building's wireless needs through an easy to use drag & drop software.  • Built a rules based vacation planning system for Disney to allow the user to enter their likes and preferences, and allow the application to  recommend the Disney World Resort that best matches their needs and personality to park hotels and packages.  "> view over 25 years experience at https://linkedin/in/iarrastia Education Computer Engineering Florida International University - Pompano Beach, FL March 2006 to December 2008 Skills Javascript (10+ years), React (3 years), Liquid (3 years), HTML5 (5 years), HTML5 (5 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/iarrastia