Master Software Engineer Master <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Master Software Engineer - Capital One McLean, VA Work Status:  Canada - PR Available  US - H1B  Having 12+ years of experience in design, development and  implementation in various applications including Web, Client/Server  Application, Web services and interface development using Java/  J2EE.  Have 2+ years in Identity as a service projects uses Cryptographic  trends like ECDH keys (NIST P-384/P-521 curves), JWE, JWK  deployed in AWS.  Have 4+ years of REST API (micro services) development.  Have 6+ years of experience in RBAC - Role Based Access control  projects, mainly on Java based web authentication/authorization.  Have 2+ years of experience in Single Page Application  technologies.  Have awareness on OWASP vulnerabilities and experience in  vulnerability assessment remediation.  Played Project lead role in the past for 4.5+ years.  Have worked in Auto Insurance, BFS and Digital Security domain.  Have awareness on deployment infrastructure set up configuration.  Having experience in Oracle database design and development in  writing Constraints.  Possess excellent understanding of SDLC.  Experience with Agile and Waterfall methodology.  Ability to work in high-pressure environment adhering to product  quality standards without compromising on the deadlines.  Self-motivated, quick learner, good team worker, expert in trouble  shooting and problem solving skills.  Have knowledge in Shell Scripting, used to develop the batch job  process.  Good experience in application support and maintenance life cycle.  Performed impact analysis and estimated efforts to satisfy the project  requirements.  Strong communication skill and experience in client interfacing and  coordination. Work Experience Master Software Engineer Capital One February 2019 to Present Sr Software Engineer Vienna, VA April 2018 to January 2019 Project: Identity Proofing  This project is intended to develop and expose REST endpoints to initiate  identity verification and Retrieving the verified identity results. This is part  of a product suite which has capabilities to verify the identity based on configurable set of verification methods. API documentation is available:  https:// developer.capitalone.com/api-products/identity-proofing/  Responsibilities:  - AWS cloud Infrastructure creation and Dockerized REST API deployments  - Perform POCs to finalize the crypto standards to be utilised  - Extendable response structure design and development  - Structured Data stream parsing development for aggregated metrics data for api usage  - Guide UAT application development (Angular) - for QA Resource with little  development background.  Technology:  AWS  - Elasti Cache, RDS, ECS, EC2, Cloud HSM, DynamoDB, Kinesis, IAM, S3  Docker  CI/CD - Jenkins - Job/Pipeline, Groovy Scripts  Languages:  - Java  - Scala: minimal exposure for a KAFKA consumer development for structured  data streams.  UI Technologies - Angular  Framework: Spring Boot Sr Software Engineer Vienna, VA January 2016 to March 2018 Project: Identity management applications  This project is intended to support web app and/or REST APIs utilized for the user authentication. The authentication is established with the help of  RSA Access manager. The scope of this project involved in developing and supporting multiple applications used for collapsing multiple user names and  enrolling new users with Single Page Application technologies and micro- services (REST).  Responsibilities:  • Worked in designing and developing of UI components using Angular JS, SCSS, HTML 5, Node JS, bower and build the components using Gulp scripts.  • Agile team activities  • Developed micro services using REST (Spring framework) and consumed  them via UI.  • Guided team for the Angular application local set up.  • Performed as SME for Angular application issues.  • Addressed 508 compliance issues.  • Implemented the initial build script for UI using Gulp.  • Supported virtualization of REST APIs for the performance testing  environment set up.  • Prepared chef configurations and jenkin jobs for application deployment in AWS servers.  • Involved in deployment activities of the project in WebLogic.  Environment: Java, REST/SOAP Web Services, Apache, Weblogic, RSA  Access Manager (Basic configuration), Maven, SOAP UI, eAPI, AngularJS, SASS, GULP, Chef, AWS. Senior Java Developer Collabera - Vienna, VA January 2015 to December 2015 Project: Identity management applications  This project is intended to support web app and/or REST APIs utilized for the user authentication. The authentication is established with the help of RSA  Access manager. The scope of the project team is to reverse engineer and identify/support the adaptable changes to the existing application to make it  more reliable/maintainable.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in designing and developing of UI components using Angular JS, SCSS, HTML 5, Node JS, bower and build the components using Gulp  scripts.  • Agile team activities  • Consumed web services in REST (Spring framework).  • Worked in designing and developing application using the Angular JS & SASS.  • Worked on POC to understand responsive Web layout and demoed  responsive layouts using css media queries, sass breakpoint and susy.  • Guided team for the Angular application local set up.  • Co ordinated the internal communication to address the Angular application  issues.  • Worked on POC on integration strategy with end client application.  • Addressed basic 508 compliance issues.  • Implemented the initial build script for UI using Gulp.  • Presented the Angular application to product owner and director. Also Co  presented the application along with product owner in the agile demo session for the other teams.  • Involved in deployment activities of the project in WebLogic and Apache  Tomcat.  • Supported the configuration for https on Apache Webserver and SSL  tunnelled communication between Apache Webserver and Tomcat App  Server.  • Intensively worked in the Identity Management, configured web server, application and smart rules in RSA product and integrated application to make  Single Sign On enable.  Environment: Java, REST/SOAP Web Services, Apache, Weblogic, RSA  Access Manager (Basic configuration), Maven, SOAP UI, eAPI, AngularJS, SASS, GULP Associate Projects Cognizant Technology Solutions - Tampa, FL December 2006 to December 2014 Pittsburgh, PA / Chennai, India  Involved in the requirement analysis, design, SDLC documentation and development/maintenance  Conduct POCs for feasibility: server configuration (Reverse proxy, 2 way SSL  etc), Cache Strategy, LDAP logs reporting charts using Dojo Framework  Lead, coordinate and/or review the team activities.  Performed application deployment to Dev/QA and provided support to the UAT/PROD deployment.  Co ordinate and conduct demo/discussions to clients  Co ordinate infrastructure team activities to set up the client proposed  deployment architecture.  Recommend technical feasibilities and solutions to client.  Performed development / maintenance of SOAP web services with WS-*  security, EAI interfaces, Web applications using Java/JSP/Servlets/Spring/  Hibernate, SOAP web services using Spring-Apache CXF/hibernate and EJB / MDBs  Involved in OWASP remediation activities.  Technical troubleshooting and support.  Prepare scripts for packaging (ANT) and/or deployment support / Password  less SFTP ( Shell scripts).  Involved in value add implementation and issue fixes for Access Management  Tool framework.  Mentor new team members, in application awareness and technical aspects.  Keen involvement in process compliance and provided guidance to other team  members. Education B.Tech in ECE College of ENgineering 2002 to 2006 Skills Java, Requirements analysis, Sdlc Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/maneetta-antony?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3BCiLgYJpGR0%2BsZMPPSCw5Pw%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile Additional Information Top Skills  SDLC  Requirements Analysis  Java