Contract to CA DOJ Contract to CA DOJ Contract to CA DOJ Sacramento, CA • Over 10 years of strong experience in Information Technology, & 5 years of strong Experience in Back-End and Front-End full-step software development with several successfully completed projects on J2EE technologies and spring frameworks.  • Create Restful Web Services using spring frameworks, spring boot, Node.js, JavaScript, Angular.js, Angular 2 and JQuery and MySQL, MongoDB, NoSQL, IBM Bluemix Cloudant database and SSO.  • Create JAX-WS Web Services in J2EE, SOAP, XML, SoapUI, Spring frameworks and Hibernate/JPA and Oracle, AEM.  • Developed and maintained object database in classes and multi-dimensional global array using Cache, MUMPS Work Experience Contract to CA DOJ Satwic Inc - Sacramento, CA November 2018 to April 2019 Software Engineer  Designed and Analysis a web based data information supply system and created project scope and goal. Created data flow diagram and Workflow diagram to Captured and Identified As-Is System functional requirements and created system analysis document. Designed a new data process and supply system to support business requirements. Created Architecture model and functional model with use-case diagram and defined use-case descriptions. Created domain model and behavioral model for To-Be System. Implemented Analyzed Multi-threaded applications for system data transaction and integration, and Implemented the To-Be system using Spring cloud, microservices, eureka server, zuul proxy server, spring webFlux with Java/J2EE, Java 8, Lambda, Stream, Servlet, SOAP, WSDL web service, Spring, Spring Boot, RESTful web service, NIEM XML, NIEM JSON, AJAX, Oracle and PL/SQL, Maven, Jboss, Tomcat Apache, JavaScript and jQuery and F5 load balancer. Software Engineer Abjayon Inc - Rancho Cordova, CA February 2017 to August 2018 Developed Web Application using Java/J2EE, Spring Frameworks, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Multi-threaded application management, Maven, Oracle, Jboss EAP, Tomcat Apache, IIS, Jenkins, SoapUI, JavaScript, Angular, and Nexus. And work in UNIX and Linux and Windows system and Careradius system environments. Deploy web application services using Jenkin and Jboss, tomcat apache and Nexus. Updated Multi-threaded web application configuration files and programs with SVN and eclipse. Provide troubleshooting for users of medical management system and Careradius system and solve the issues related to any inpatients and outpatients and medical management and provider services. Used Python generating reports for monitoring system web application processing. Created spring boot microservices, Analyst programs and data and coding in Java 8, Lambda, Stream, JavaScript, Database in Oracle PL/SQL, MySql, SoapUI, HL7 message and EDI data and SVN. Responsible for coordinating, administering and supporting activities related data access. Web Application Developer HP - Sacramento, CA September 2016 to December 2016 Using Angular 2, node.js, JavaScript, AEM, MongoDB, IBM Bluemix Single Sign-on and Cloudant and Git to design Restful web services and NoSQL DB and UI for electronic time sheet web application. Developed the front end application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, and Angular2. Created User Interface Design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, REST and Angular, Bootstrap. Used the Node.js, Angular, backbone.js and spring boot and spring MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications. Software Developer Multivision - Sacramento, CA February 2016 to April 2016 Using CPRS of VistA, MUMPS and TCP/IP protocol and Anywhere remote server to set up testing environments such as local Hub and remote spokes in SOTTP project of VA. Analyst the RSD and SDD of Seamless Ordering of Tests for Transplant Patients. Followed the test cast and test scripts to provide system testing in CPRA of VistA with MUMPS and HL7 and TCP/IP Protocol, SharePoint. Understand the system design module and architecture and the data format in HL7 been transferred between different local Hub and remote site Spokes. Analyzed and developed network application programs and web application in Java/j2ee and JavaScript, node.js and Angular.js. Also, used JavaScript, node.js and MongoDB to create databases application. Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery. Software Engineer ByLight - Sacramento, CA June 2014 to September 2015 Applied agile methodology to monitored IVP project and analyst client's requirements in RSD. Designed and created system modules and architecture in SDD. Based on the SDD implemented business logic modules and created middleware using Java/J2EE, Spring framework and Spring MVC, Spring Boot Micro Service, Eclipse, WebLogic Server, SharePoint, Tomcat apache and Jboss servers and Node.js on the end site. Created Multi-threaded Web application middleware to handle clients requires. Used JavaScript and Angular.js frameworks and MVC design pattern to created object modules and implemented GUI and web application that allow users to updated and search data information online. Used major techniques JavaScript and Angula.js, JQuery, HTML5 and CSS3, Ajax, Bootstrap, JSON, AEM ,XML to build Restful web service IVP project to integrated VA hospital Vista system. Used MongoDB, MySQL to created databases on local clinics to stored patient's insurance information and images. Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS3, Angular.js, Node.js, JavaScript and JavaScript libraries like JQuery. Software Developer Medsphere - Sacramento, CA October 2013 to January 2014 Participated in Vista evolution Dev test APIs project for Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Analyst programs and routines in MUMPS, cache with FileMan, MailMan, Kernal and RPC Broker. Created testing cases and testing data and created testing documentation for each APIs. Analyst EHR user interface application and their components. Developed front end architecture & UI templates for application using Angular, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript. Programming with java/j2ee, Angular, node.js and C# and MUMPS and Cache. Understand the Vista Evolution Architecture. System Analyst Lutheran Medical Center March 2011 to September 2012 Developed and implemented real-time software application for pharmacy department to monitor the inpatient medication orders process from different wards and clinic location using Putty and FM. SQL.  Program and create reports to allow pharmacy to tracking "STAT" orders turnaround time in order to ensure the efficiency of medication processing using MUMPS. Create and customized various reports for laboratory, Radiology, Pharmacy, clinic, hospital, Finance departments. Design and implement software applications to provide data from Vista system for other front software application in Java using FM, JDBC, Hibernate, HL7, and Agile. Designed and implemented database application that read data from files and use FM, Cache, SQL to create and populate global system database that allow other users and application using such KBS, EMR. Create and implement databases application that allows doctors and nurses from emergency department and other clinics to search a patient's medication using records from CPRS. Detect and debug errors for all applications in Vista system. Implement application to reporting and track patients' home medication using history for the safety management of medication using KBS, SQL, and MUMPS. Schedule a program to running and produce file and send it to users automatically by using FM Task management. Provided 24 hours supporting on production site for all users for any programming issues and system issues. Cache/MUMPS Developer Opus-ISM LLC August 2010 to December 2010 Developed and maintained object database in classes and multi-dimensional global array using Cache, MUMPS with InterSystem and ProComm. Created web application using cache, MUMPS, CSP, JavaScript, SQL, Java, Swing, XML, and HTML. Upgraded database to ensure the database more reliable and efficiency.  Customized database application to satisfy customers' needs from pharmacy and clinics. Analyzed Lab, Pharmacy data to created reports in UNIX and Linux system. Implemented a Java/Networking application to read and load file remotely from different locations using TCP/IP and socket, HTTP. Provided technical support for customers to solving any issues related to software products. Web Application Developer ACE Auto Wrecking - Sacramento, CA January 2008 to July 2010 Developed and maintain object persistent database in classes and multi-dimensional global array using InterSystem, Cache, MUMPS, and SQL. Created web application using Cache, MUMPS, CSP, SQL, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS and XML and Java/J2EE, Spring/MVC. Hibernate, Swing, provided troubleshooting related to database issues. Upgraded database and ensured security of accessing InterSystem databases. Created relationship database with logical and physical data models and maintain the database to make it more efficiency and reliable using NetBeans, java/j2ee, PHP, SQL, Agile and MySQL. Communicate with customers in person, by phone and e-mail. Place orders, answer questions and solve problems. Customer Service Best Buy - Bloomington, MN August 2001 to December 2007 Monitored warehouse areas and created daily reports using MS-Word and MS Access and Excel. Answered and solved customer questions. Performed database searches using MySQL and helped managers and staff to set up schedules. Programmer/Analyst Health Partners - Saint Paul, MN March 2006 to October 2006 Managed and maintained access to medical records in Epic Chronicles-based database. Developed and Implemented database and search engine using MUMPS, Chronicles, Cache and UNIX and Linux. Installed new releases of software to clinics and provided assistance for version updates. Customized and analyzed programs based on different requirements of different clinics. Assisted Web application design with PHP, JavaScript. Performed trouble shooting and technical support for doctors and nurses in clinics and ensure database is available to system at all times. Software Engineer Datacard Group - Minnetonka, MN May 2000 to July 2001 Performed programming and debugging with C/C++ and Java in the Zenith software development project. Analyzed VC++ and Java programs to create testing datasets in database and implemented a prototype of test generator and created testing scripting with python. Specified system requirements and Performed simulation and experiments based on the test cases in the Zenith software development project with UML, Rational Rose, Sybase, Oracle. Determined best configurations and combinations between machines and datasets to achieve high level of reliability and serviceability. Generated comprehensive reports in Access. Created and maintained internal technical web site using HTML and FrontPage Java, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, and MS Access. Provided assistance to engineers by organizing the various project documents with version control.    Project Demo:  https://github.com/Andy882002/SpringHibernateIntegration/tree/master/eclipse-neon4.6/eclipse-jee-neon-2-win32-x86_64%20(1)/STRUWSP_JPA_Ralidator/WSpringURLPAttenApp    https://github.com/andyluo882016/SpringMVCPatterns/tree/master/WSpringURLPAttenApp/src/main/java/com/app/controller    https://github.com/andyluo882016/Spring-Boot-Cloud-MicroService/tree/master/eclipse-neon4.6/eclipse-jee-neon-2-win32-x86_64%20(1)/MyGitHubRepository    https://github.com/andyluo882016/SpringAOPTransactionManager/tree/master/eclipse-neon4.6/eclipse-jee-neon-2-win32-x86_64%20(1)/MyGitHubRepository    https://youtu.be/rakqPQiPHvA  https://youtu.be/4LWyOF6xPOc    This is Spring Boot Micro Service Demo:  https://github.com/andyluo882016/SpringWebFluxApplication  https://youtu.be/IT_xfaL3PUI  https://youtu.be/uyr1RKSvBDQ  https://youtu.be/1t6WtBOM1IY    https://github.com/Andy882002/SpringWebMVCApp.git  https://github.com/Andy882002/WebMVCSpringCacheApp.git  https://github.com/Andy882002/NewHibernateDemo  https://github.com/andyluo882016/Angular2MongoDB  https://mywebdemost.mybluemix.net/AllImages    LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/anda-luo-595a2145/ Education M.S in Software Engineering University of St Thomas - Saint Paul, MN May 2004 B.S. in Computer Science College of Science and Engineering of Minnesota - May, Minnesota, US May 2000 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, APPLICATION SERVER, APPLICATION TESTING, C#, C++