Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Dynacraft Louisville, KY Innovative professional with experience creating applications through the Software Development Life Cycle. Strong familiarity with Microsoft development technologies with growing experience in JavaScript frameworks and libraries including Angular and React. Work Experience Software Developer Dynacraft - Louisville, KY August 2018 to Present • Worked closely with management and users to develop actionable plans to create and enhance existing applications supporting automotive production.  • Created reports used for business intelligence with SSRS.  • Worked with other members of the development team to implement use of Telerik controls for data required by senior management.  • Worked within SCRUM and utilized best practices to efficiently work on development projects from creation to release.    Tools used: C#, .Net, Visual Studio, HTML, CSS, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Red Gate, Data Tables, J-Query, JavaScript, XML, SSIS, SSRS, Telerik/Kendo UI Logistics Coordinator Dynacraft - Louisville, KY June 2010 to Present As a Manufacturing Coordinator I report directly to the shop floor supervisor and am responsible for hour by hour operation on the shop floor. Assist the supervisor in managing the daily production and distribution flow of work. Assist the supervisor in logistically managing the deployment of shop floor personnel. Resolved issues daily in SAP and reported other issues to data base personnel. Acted as a point of contact for identification and resolution of area data process errors. Continually recommended process and or system changes to enhance safety, productivity, and quality. I also work with supervisors and plant personnel to improve the overall SAP system knowledge base. Communicate with other departments on order status and plant required tasks (delivery deletion, production order status, transfer order generation, etc). I also assist in employee training in interfacing with SAP, and other duties as assigned. Logistics System Supervisor ITT April 2008 to April 2009 Operator of the Standard Depot System (SDS) and the Army Material Command Installation Supply System (AMCISS). Also conducted queries in the Army War Reserve Deployment System (AWARDS). The primary responsibilities are to monitor and maintain property accountability within receiving, issue, and turn-in which accounts for Army stock designated for both retail and wholesale. Duties include running inquiries when requested, carrying out daily data reconciliation between SDS and AWRDS, utilizing MS Excel refreshable queries to obtain information to resolve logistics issues. Also responsible for conducting inventories and inventory adjustments, equipment receipts, and storage adjustments. Responsible for generating MRO's for outbound shipments and forwarding these documents to the Transportation Section. Worked with other contacts in Iraq and Kuwait to manage and account for retrograde equipment. Manage and direct the overall inventory, accountability, warehousing, procurement, maintenance and serviceability of all tactical equipment, supplies and materials. Evaluated what retrograde and RPAT equipment was ready for disposition to CONUS or DRMO and worked with items managers to have disposition filled. Supervised 30 personnel on day and night shifts. Responsible for weekly training to improve section efficiency. Education Bachelor's Degree in CIT/ Software Development Western Kentucky University 2016 to 2019 Associates Degree in Computer Programming Elizabethtown Community College 2014 to 2016 Skills ASP, Git, Javascript, MySQL, jQuery, HTML 5, PHP