Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> .NET Senior Software Developer. Marietta, GA Professional .Net C#/VB.NET SQL Server web developer. Work Experience Senior Developer Georgia Department of Health March 2013 to Present Developed several ASP.Net based Web applications using C# and VB.Net and SQL Server with  heavy use of HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  • Worked with developer and QA teams to resolve the existing issues.  • Made ad-hoc enhancements to the different webpages.  • Helped with migration from VB6 to VB.NET and C# and from windows XP to windows 7  • Developed application with digital signature capability.  • Created the Security module for Web applications. Senior Software developer Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation June 2012 to January 2013 Worked as a senior consultant at Mitsubishi Trust USA Bank  • Transformed Banks' Legacy .Net and VB6 code to the latest .NET version using VS 2010 and on windows 7 OS.  • Migrated company' s existing VB.NET code to C#  • Migrated company's VBA codes to.NET C# based applications. Senior Software Engineer/Production Bloomberg LC May 2006 to May 2012 Developed large number of application integration code using both windows Winforms and Console in order to allow client financial applications to directly interface with Bloomberg's financial services API.  • Directly interacted with more than 2000 clients regarding production issues.  • Performed major role in key company applications including Server API, Desktop API, Managed B-Pipe, B-Pipe, Data License (FTP and Web Service) to maintain and support these software.  • Provided extensive training and product support to clients on the use of "Bloomberg Server and Desktop API's (API's for accessing stock market information). During this time had direct contact with more than 2000 clients.  • Worked closely with API Implementation and API Development teams to get the clients move to latest versions of API's as smoothly as possible.  • Technologies used: C#, VB.NET, VBA, Unix shell, SQL queries, SQL server  • Extensive experience interacting and leading with offshore teams in Asia and Europe. Software Engineer Net2phone Inc August 2004 to May 2006 Provided key design, development and support of Net2phone's Customer Management System and Partner Resource Center applications  • Re-engineered several large and complex company legacy applications in order to improve scalability and performance by transforming old VBA and VB6 code to C#.  • Provided extensive client application support. Database Developer Dimo Corp April 2003 to July 2004 Lead developer responsible for design and development of the company's inventory management using Visual Basic and SQL Server 2000  • Upgraded legacy VB applications developed in VB 6.0 to Visual Basic.NET Supply Chain Consultants - Software Engineer Zemeter July 2001 to April 2003 Re-engineered key modules of company's primary supply chain product (Zemeter(TM)) including addition of numerous features / enhancements using Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0 and SQL Server 2000  Instrumental in design and development of various areas of Zemeter(TM) database Education PHD in statistics University of Calgary Skills NET, C#, Javascript Additional Information Computer Skills    • Languages, development/productivity tools and platforms: ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, VBA, JAVASCRIPT, VB6, HTML, XML, , SQL, T-SQL, ADO, DAO, WEB SERVICES, VISUAL Source Safe; SVN; UNIX shell, Bloomberg Terminal and many BLOOMBERG financial functions including HP, QR, AQR, HRTP, GIT.    • Databases and OS: Windows NT, Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows 2000, Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows, SOLARIS, Linux, DOS, Oracle, SQL server and MS Access