Freelance Software Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Software Developer - IPQ, LLC Innovative software developer with a background in web and cloud technologies, with a passion for learning and continuous  growth. Highly Proficient working in environments that require collaboration and agile development, working on projects  from concept to completion. Self-motivated, knowledgeable and eager to undertake new challenges and find technical  solutions to build products that are highly scalable. Work Experience Freelance Software Developer IPQ, LLC - Austin, TX January 2019 to Present o Developed and delivered high-end website solutions to a diverse client base by utilizing wide-ranging technologies and frameworks.  o Served in a client-facing role translating business requirements into viable, scalable cloud solutions that ensured  high traffic, page views and user experience.  o Worked as part of a team that oversaw the full lifecycle of software development for 4 projects with 100% on-time  delivery while leveraging cloud technologies to reduce hosting fees.  o Responsible for architecting, designing and implementing fault tolerant systems on AWS. Coding Instructor Coding with Kids - Austin, TX August 2018 to August 2019 o Introduced elementary and middle school students to the fundamentals of coding.  o Taught game development with the visual programming language Scratch.  o Encouraged children to think creatively, reason systematically and work collaboratively. Freelance Software Developer Austin, TX March 2018 to September 2018 o Established client relationships to implement all aspects of business acquisition and product development.  o Consulted with the client to outline website goals, illustrate wireframe, and site functionality.  o Designed and developed custom web applications for various business industries.  o Architected deployment strategies using Amazon Web Services. Sortation Associate Amazon - Austin, TX June 2018 to August 2018 o Managed truck deliveries and packages.  o Scanned and sorted packages based on size and destination.  o Built, wrapped, and transported pallets and packages based on destination Sales Associate Lacoste - Coral Gables, FL April 2015 to August 2016 o Worked with a team performing cashier duties, product assistance, and store layout organization.  o Provided excellent customer service while exceeding daily, weekly and monthly sales goals by up to 10 percent.  o Maintained a regular customer base and actively worked to develop lucrative new customer relationships. Education BA in Economics in Economics Florida International University - Miami, FL August 2015 to May 2016 Associate of Arts Broward College - Davie, FL August 2013 to May 2015 Skills Amazon web services, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Object-oriented, Object-oriented programming, Rspec, Ruby, Rails, Web services, Vm, Html5, Mvc, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, jquery, Linux Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/dpm530 http://www.github.com/dpm530 http://www.danielpalacios.co http://www.ipqtech.com Additional Information Technical Skills  Ruby Rails RSpec (testing) SQL MySQL PostgreSQL JavaScript HTML5 CSS3 jQuery Bootstrap APIs  Git GitHub Amazon Web Services Linux Windows MVC Object-Oriented Programming RESTful TDD VM  Vagrant