Solo-Founder Solo-Founder Solo-Founder - Wiwet.com Irvine, CA Work Experience Solo-Founder Wiwet.com - Irvine, CA August 2014 to Present Built a mobile-ready web application using C#, MVC, Bootstrap, AJAX, Azure SQL  Server, and Azure Server Fabric with Braintree and Stripe integration that allows users to buy and download ASP.NET and MVC templates.  • Created Visual Studio Extensions that enable users to install, disable and uninstall  ASP.NET and MVC templates.  • Imported PSD templates into the ASP.NET and MVC frameworks by breaking them  into master pages, site layouts, web controls, web pages, views, and partial views.  • Created ASP.NET and MVC templates that help developers to create mobile ready web  applications in less than a minute. Senior Software Engineering Consultant Capital Group - Irvine, CA February 2019 to August 2019 Enhance the back-office financial applications Capital Group uses to trade and manage global swaps, forwards, futures, FXs, bonds, and stocks in MS SQL, Sybase, and  C# across the world.  • Create and enhance features that allow the mass transfer of financial assets, such as positions and accruals, between managers within portfolios in C#, MS SQL, and Sybase.  • Query multiple in-house and third-party systems to create reports that allow Capital  Group to identify accounting errors within their system.  • Create unit testing and facilitate the development of automation testing that allows  Capital Group to find and fix errors before systems reach production. Senior Software Engineering Consultant R121 - Foothill Ranch, CA August 2018 to November 2018 Helped R121 customers to reach more clients in Latin America and Asia by converting  their ecommerce web applications into multi-language and multi-cultural web  applications using Azure, C#, VB.NET, MVC, Web forms, jQuery, MS SQL Database, and GitHub.  • Helped the customer marketing department to reach more than 100,000 subscribers  by supporting their back-end applications using Azure, C#, VB.NET, MVC, .NET Core, Web forms, jQuery, MS SQL Database, and GitHub. Senior Software Engineering Consultant 3E Company - Carlsbad, CA September 2015 to March 2018 Support multi language and multi-cultural web applications in C#, MVC, AJAX, Entity  Framework, LINQ, Telerik, and MS SQL Server that helps companies around the world to improve compliance with environmental regulations and supply chain obligations.  • Create and maintain multi language application with C#, MVC, Entity Framework,  LINQ, web services, Telerik, and SQL Server, that allows other applications within the organization to share data among them. Application Developer LA Fitness - Irvine, CA July 2012 to September 2015 Reduced overhead costs by creating a Windows music application with C#, WPF, web  services, and SQLite, that trainers in more than 200 clubs countrywide can use in their  fitness classes.  • Built an intranet web application using C#, ASP.NET, AJAX, and MS SQL Server that  facilitates the Group Fitness department tracks and updates the Windows music  application that is deployed in more than 200 clubs countrywide.  • Maintain a web application in C#, ASP.NET, AJAX, and MS SQL Server that allows  thousands of trainers countrywide to create, edit, and delete their training sessions and modify their schedules.  • Support a desktop application in C#, WPF, Windows Forms, and MS SQL Server that  assists the Human Resources department to recruit, dismiss, and manage thousands of applicants and employees. Senior Web Developer ThinkPets - Huntington Beach, CA March 2010 to July 2012 Lead HealthyPetu's software engineer team by managing day-to-day operations, taking care of resource planning, budget control, monitoring code quality, delegating  tasks, and translating user requirements into product features.  • Management HealthyPetu's offshore outsource software engineer team by delegating  tasks, monitoring code quality, and merging code changes.  • Reduce the cost of development by customizing large-scale and complex Content  Management Systems (CMS) that allows the company to update and maintain  HealthyPetU's website without the need for developers.  • Develop, program, implement, and manage large-scale websites and web applications  in C# .NET, MS SQL Server and AJAX.  • Provide thousands of veterinarians unparalleled professional business and marketing  services to strengthen their relationships with their clients by enhancing and maintaining HealthyPetU's website. Senior Software Engineer OneStop - Long Beach, CA September 2009 to March 2010 • Increased OneStop's customers' annual sales by creating new features, including a wish list, by using C# and MS SQL Server.  • Maintained web applications in C# .NET, MS SQL Server and AJAX enabling thousands  of people to search and buy clothing and accessories online using any of OneStop's  customers' sites such as lululemon, True Religion, Seven Jeans, Splendid, John Varvatos, and Billon Dollar Babes.  • Increased retail sales for OneStop's customers by integrating OneStop's web  applications with third-party applications, thus allowing them to sell and ship products to international customers. Senior .NET Software Developer Superior Access - Irvine, CA November 2007 to September 2009 Saved the company time as well as $50,000 dollars a year in license fees by creating a new intranet web application, with C# .NET and AJAX, which enabled the Operations  Department to more expediently process customers' transactions and requests on a daily basis.  • Created an intranet web application using C# .NET and AJAX which helped the Professional Service Department track and invoice agencies for services provided by  Superior Access.  • Worked with upper management analyze business workflow and performance by creating and maintaining a data warehouse and reports by using MS SQL Server and MS  SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Maintained web applications and web services in C# .NET, MS SQL Server and AJAX  enabling the 3,000 Superior Access agents to quote and buy insurance policies online. Senior Web Application Developer Urban Science - Long Beach, CA May 2006 to November 2007 Automated a preexisting inefficient data warehouse update process system through the development of a simple, yet sophisticated, desktop application and web service,  ultimately saving both time and money.  • Maintained and enhanced web applications in C# .NET, MS SQL Server, and JavaScript  (AJAX) allowing Urban Science's customers to analyze and mine its data. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Computer Information Systems California State Polytechnic University Associate of Arts in Business Administration in Languages Rio Hondo College Skills Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Ajax, Asp, Asp.net, Web services, .net, C#, C++, Design patterns, Javascript, Bootstrap, .net core, Software development, Vb.net, Html5, Mvc, Wpf Links http://stackoverflow.com/story/georgegonzalez http://www.linkedin.com/in/jorgeglz https://angel.co/jorge-gonzalez-6 http://github.com/Jorge-GitHub Additional Information Skills  English  Spanish    C# Azure (SQL Server/Server Fabric)  ASP.NET MVC  .NET Core Telerik  Entity Framework LINQ  Microsoft SQL Server MySQL  Web Services Design Patterns  JavaScript jQuery  AJAX Bootstrap  Software Development Team Leadership  SSRS UML  HTML5 CSS3  Responsive Design Agile Methodologies  C++ WPF  VB.NET Braintree  GitHub TFS