Sr Web Developer Sr Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Web Developer North Richland Hills, TX Work Experience Sr Web Developer 22nd Century Technologies Inc - Phoenix, AZ October 2017 to July 2019 • Rewrite/Convert multiple older applications from FoxPro to ASP/MVC Dot Net applications.  • Document functionality of applications being rewritten.  • Write MS SQL/My SQL tables and stored procedures as necessary to interact with applications.  • Prepare regular progress reports and notes for progress meetings.  • Prepare written scripts and code.  • Using Nugget Packages in current development.  • Creating medical analysis spread sheets with fairly complicated formulas in MS Excel reports for Medical Experts to analyze.  • Design, code and maintain associated interfaces to GOTS and open source software  Adding the following functionality:  • All development with the following technologies  - ASP.NET, Visual Studio 2015  - Razor  - C#, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Telerik (kendo grids, kendo upload, kendo templates)  - .Net Framework 4.5.2 and 4.6.2  - MVC 5  - MS SQL 2015, MySQL 6.3 Software Engineer Scottsdale, AZ August 2014 to January 2016 Test Driven Development - 2 week sprints and Unit testing using N-Unit    Project 1:  • Software development and enhancements of the company marketing software.  • Framework included .Net 4.5. Main tasks included getting requirements; develop code using C#, Linq lambdas, JavaScript, MVC3, (some VB), ASP.NET and modifying/creating Stored Procedures.  • Presented written documentation and code reviews to the software lead.    Project 2:  • Rewrite of the company software to allow for more flexibility and meet new client needs.  • The new architecture allows for mini standalone services using RabbitMQ messaging.  • Designed JSON structures for storing data into MongoDB.  • Developed C# code using heavy Linq lambda expressions and messaging to the MassTransit bus.  • Created Linux virtual images and use of Mono compiled C# code to be executed on Linux systems. Analyst App Dev-Web CVS Health - Scottsdale, AZ March 2002 to 2016 • Fully developed a permissions and roles Asp.Net MVC web portal to be used for internal web applications that are being ported from legacy applications along with new databases and stored procedures. Technologies included, Entity Frameworks, T-SQL 1012, C#, Asp.net-MVC, JavaScript/jQuery, Linq.  • Test Driven Development - 2 week sprints and Unit testing using N-Unit  • Main architect of a document repository as a replacement for the old KwikTag system currently in process.  Adding the following functionality:  - File upload, encrypt file and sftp to document server, insert file details to data server.  - Using a 3rd party software to OCR tiff files into searchable PDF files, and redact files.  - Using Nuget packages to incorporate workflow processes.  - Create/Modify new MS SQL stored procedures.  - Created a JSON REST service to POST/PUT/GET data to/from the client/server.  • All development with the following technologies  - ASP.NET,  - C#, JS, Ajax, Telerik (kendo grids, kendo upload, kendo templates)  - Dot Net Framework 4.6.1 and 4.6.2  - MVC 5  - MS SQL 2017 Software Engineer CVS Caremark(Contract) - Scottsdale, AZ March 2014 to May 2014 • Responsible for new software development for the Med-D-Pharmacy Portal and writing a web-based architecture software using MS Visual Studio Framework 4.0 with C# and ASP.NET, JavaScript and Telerik.  • Interfaced directly with MS SQL Management Studio.  • Created new SQL Stored Procedures (SPs), and modify other SPs.  • Consulted with database expert team for more advanced procedures when needed to optimize data retrieval and storage.  • Worked directly with QA to resolve known reported bugs and assisted other engineers on an as needed basis.  • Scheduled code review and status meetings with the team on a weekly basis to see keep the software manager up-to date on the status of the project.  • Documented software manuals, software requirements manual for newly written software to the specifications of CVS's standards. Sr. Software Engineer Sabre Holdings - Chandler, AZ March 2012 to March 2014 • Client-Server, ASP.NET, JavaScript and Telerik based software development/enhancement using C# .NET on Windows 7 OS for the Sabre Property Management System application used by Wyndham and Red Roof Properties.  • Interface directly with Oracle PL/SQL for data storage, analyze and modify stored procedures on a daily basis using PL SQL Developer and Oracle Developer tools.  • Reworked the Disconnected (Network offline) State so the application would have basic functionality.  • On the Wyndham side of things, a REST WebService was implemented to transfer data to and from client/server as this data was needed externally by users.  • Used XML and encrypted files for sensitive data for local caching of data so the PMS could run with limited functionality while disconnected from the server. Sr. Software Engineer TicketMaster - Scottsdale, AZ November 2011 to February 2012 • Client-Server, ASP.NET, JavaScript and Telerik based software development/enhancement using (.NET) C#/C++ on the Windows XP, 7 OS.  • Code debug, development and porting of C#/C++ code to Win 7 (32/64bit) OS. Sr. Software Engineer Phoenix, AZ July 2011 to November 2011 • Client-server and embedded development/enhancement using C++ on the Linux OS for various tools and Electric Vehicle charging units and developed a SQLite database application which sent real charging station event data to the home office.  • This data is later collected and used by the Dept. of Energy. Project LEMV/DE-CGS/DCGS 2007 to June 2011 LEMV: C/C++ code development and porting from UNIX to Linux & Windows with Oracle PL/SQL.  DE-CGS: Java code enhancements on Window OS, JavaScript and ASP.Net  DCGS: (.NET) Duties included writing new software using C#, Java and creating WebServices. Sr. Software Engineer General Dynamics - Scottsdale, AZ June 2005 to June 2011 Project Experimental GEMINI 2006 to 2007 New Java development and WebServices (publish/subscribe system of pushing data to web-based clients).  Java and JavaScript development using Java Eclipse and interfacing to SQLite embedded database.    Project Rescue21: 2006 - 2006  Client / Server based project.  Debug source code, debug and code enhancements using MS Visual Studio.NET C++ and XML.  Various code enhancements which included working with Push to talk (PPT) software modules.  Debugged various code within the PTT software Project ASTOR 2005 to 2006 Client - Server based project. Development and enhancements using the .NET C/C++ language with Visual Studio and ESRI-GIS library with ALT/COM to store and retrieve data from the Sybase SQL database engine with XML data files. Enhancements included adding scenarios of Moving Target Indicators (MTI) in replay and real time to multiple MTIs using C++ and by providing COM interfaces to the existing system. Education BS in Computer Science Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ 1998