Software Engineer in Test <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer in Test SOFTWARE ENGINEER IN TEST Lehi, UT Software Engineer or Test Engineer with deep experience in JAVA, designing effective solutions for user interfaces, manufacturing processes, and automated testing systems. Work Experience Software Engineer in Test Microsoft - Lehi, UT February 2018 to Present Software Engineer/Project Manager Special Ice - Livermore, CA July 2006 to Present Designed and developed a calendar web application for a tent rental company that ran on Tomcat. This calendar application pulled events from database and displayed them to user. This application used the data pulled from the database to help the user to determine manpower needed, trucks needed, traveling times and other critical information needed to help do the job better. Technology used daily: Java Servlet, HTML, JavaScript, SQL  Managed software projects through all stages and aspects, including: application programming, software design, scope, goals, and deliverables, Developed and provided feedback on detailed technical project issues and plans. AEM Developer Infield Digital - San Francisco, CA February 2016 to July 2016 Worked on backend development of projects developed with Adobe Experience Manager (AEM / CQ5) web content management system. Technology used daily: AEM, Java Sling, Java Core, JavaScript, HTML. Java Swing Software Engineer AOptix - Campbell, CA March 2015 to January 2016 Designed and developed PathExplorer Application for AOptix, a Laser and Microwave company. This application used Google Map API , JAVA, HTML5 and JavaScript to setup needed parameters to get the Availability of the FSO and E-band Radio. The application used the parameters in MATLAB to calculate the Availabilities. The application took the Availabilities from MATLAB and displayed the results on both JavaScript Graphs and Java Graph. Java technology used daily: Swing, JavaFX SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER Aviat Networks - Santa Clara, CA 2010 to 2014 Led development of the Portal user-interface configuration tool for the microwave radio  system. Implemented the application in Java using IntelliJ and Eclipse Java IDE.  Designed implementation and supported automation test stations used for manufacturing a  microwave radio terminal. Created a Linux test station using Java to program an SD Card for the terminal. Used open-source Linux OS, off-the-shelf hardware, and a standard USB  SD card reader to keep development costs low.  Designed, developed, and implemented PHP and Java for a customer-facing interface that  transfers licenses to a USB dongle. The interface enabled customers to create license files and install on the microwave radio terminal or transfer licenses to a USB dongle for later  installation on the terminal.  Designed, developed, and implemented a Java application that installed from a USB  dongle. The application transferred a license from USB dongle to the microwave radio  terminal using HTML calls. SENIOR DESIGN ENGINEER Aviat Networks - San Jose, CA 2008 to 2010 Identified innovative solutions to meet industry programming needs relative to energy,  surveillance, and security systems for cell sites.  Led design and development of an energy, surveillance, and security system for cell sites  called Aviat EfficientSite, including development of a user-interface configuration tool, a  SNMP manager, and a Hybrid Energy manager. Used MySQL, Java, HTML, PHP, and C.  Directed five engineers in design and development of the EfficientSite energy surveillance and security system for cell sites.  TIMOTHY McCARTHY 364 TORRINGTON DRIVE  BRENTWOOD, CA 94513  408-410-3156 SOFTWARE ENGINEER Aviat Networks - San Jose, CA 2000 to 2008 Contributed to development of the user-interface configuration tool Portal for the microwave radio system. This application was implemented in Java using IntelliJ Java IDE.  Designed implementation and supported automation test stations used for manufacturing of a microwave radio system. This included the development of a Java application running on a Linux test station that programmed a compact flash with embedded code for the microwave radio system. The application also queried Oracle using the sales order to  request what license should be installed on the Compact Flash.  Managed all software changes in the XP4 microwave platform. This included microwave  radio embedded code, network management card embedded code, and the CLI code. LEAD SOFTWARE TEST ENGINEER Harris Stratex Networks - Seattle, WA 1997 to 2000 Wrote test plans for the company's highest-volume product, the XP4 microwave platform.  Managed and led four other software test engineers in the test of microwave system.  Tested embedded software changes on network manager card for microwave radio system.  Used Visual Basic and Dart PowerSNMP SNMP Agent ActiveX Control to create  automated test for software changes to the SNMP Manager on the Network Manager Card.  Tested SNMP MIB changes using MG-SOFT browser and compiler; tested the SNMP MIB against the Network Manager Card SNMP embedded server.  Developed automated test of the microwave radio terminal user interface using Visual Test.  Performed system-level test of microwave and network management hardware.    ADVANCED LEARNING  Managing Multiple Projects, Objectives, and Deadlines. This intensive seminar increases  management skills, including advanced techniques for successfully managing concurrent  projects, competing priorities, and critical deadlines.  Java Programming Course. A five-day conference that covered software development with  Java. Topics included developing apps, applets, web components, Basic input and outputs,  Java server pages, Java database connectivity, threads, and Java web applications.  Cisco Router Configuration. Comprehensive five-day course with instruction on fundamentals of Cisco routers, fundamentals of TCP/IP, routing protocols and procedures,  virtual private networks, and understanding the OSI reference model. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Seattle Pacific University - Seattle, WA June 1998 Associate in Arts in Arts and Science Bellevue College - Bellevue, WA June 1996 Skills Java (10+ years), AEM (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Java, PHP, C, HTML, XML, JavaScript, VB, Object-oriented, Java Web Start  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows, Android  Databases: Oracle, MySQL