Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Blink Session Colorado Springs, CO Work Experience Software Developer Blink Session November 2016 to Present • Blink Session, is a HIPAA-compliant Telehealth and online tutoring SAAS platform currently with more than 300 users.  • Blink Session is built on Laravel 5 and a LEMP stack on AWS with front-end technology including: Jquery, Websockets with Pusher, WebRTC Video, and HTML5 Canvas. Backend technology includes: Payment gateway integration, five external API integrations, Encryption, Beanstalk Queuing, CRON automated email reminders, drip marketing, white-label capability, and full REST API. Software Developer & Consultant Down Beat Web Solutions January 2014 to Present • Designed and developed SAAS software, responsive websites, and REST APIs utilizing the latest's technology and trade practices  • Increased client's web presence and effectiveness through optimized designs, user-interfaces, SEO, SEM, Adwords, email and direct marketing.  • Sample Work:  • American Spirit Technology: Utilized FatFree Framework, PHP/JavaScript, and AWS to develop a full-featured SAAS application for the uploading, processing, and reporting of large consumer marketing (millions of rows) data sets. Built a RESTful API service with documentation and custom query builder to search data sets of 300 million+ records.  • Patio Heaven: Improved company-wide operations with a custom-built ERP system developed with a Laravel PHP backend API and Angular Front End. This system, which manages the company's catalog, quotes, orders, shipments, reporting, and CRM data has become the go-to place for all company operations. Also designed and developed a new WordPress front-end website which integrates with the custom ERP.  • Filbur Manufacturing: Improved Filbur's web presence and dealer relations with complete web redesign and backend system based on WordPress.  • Booj: Added and improved client's custom application including work in PHP, MySQL, PHP, HTML, JS, and CSS. Developed CRON, Queue, and Webhook scripts to process data and automate email delivery. Web Developer Colorado Springs, CO January 2013 to May 2015 • Developed new website utilizing PHP, MySQL, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, Laravel, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Jquery, Bootstrap, GIT and Github for 8,000+ daily visitors.  • Performed survey research to develop website strategy in combination with analysis of Google Analytics data. Web Developer & Consultant ARM Ministries, Colorado Springs July 2011 to December 2012 • Development of new website utilizing HTML5, CSS3, PHP, MySQL, CS6, MS Office  • Designed marketing materials and letters for donors. Research Consultant Global Mapping Int - Colorado Springs, CO June 2010 to July 2011 • Performed and consulted on qualitative and quantitative research projects for non-profit organizations.  • Design and developed displays of research data utilizing VBA, HTML and CSS. Systems Technician Dallas Theological Seminary - Dallas, TX September 2004 to April 2010 Implemented and maintained servers for Microsoft Active Directory, DHCP, Printing and Voicemail and a large telecommunications system. Marketing Research Associate Javelin Direct - Irving, TX August 2002 to March 2004 • Researched marketing and analytical techniques for clients including media optimization, time-series and regression modeling  • Managed ROI reporting for all AT&T direct mail campaigns and managed process to deliver weekly forecast updates to travelocity.com utilizing SQL, SAS and Visual Basic. Education Bachelor of Art in Sociology in Sociology University of North Texas - Denton, TX May 2002 Additional Information • Extensive software development and web design experience in PHP 5,7, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, SASS, JavaScript, Jquery, Bootstrap, MySQL, MVC, Laravel, CodeIgniter, FatFree, Wordpress, Bitrix, GIT, SVN, NODE, Grunt, Gulp, Angular, Composer, Vagrant, Payment Gateway Integrations, Encryption, HIPAA-compliance, AWS, REST API development.  • Experience with industry-leading marketing firms providing market research and data modeling for fortune five hundred companies including AT&T Communications.  • Experience with social media strategy and management, email marketing and design, content development, SEO and SEM.