Senior Web Developer Senior Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Developer - Nassau County 39 golden ave, Deer Park, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Web Developer Nassau County - Mineola, NY December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Attended meetings with internal departments  • Designed Technical Documentations for internal team.  • Design Direct Assessment Web Tool to allow Nassau County users to capture delinquent water and miscellaneous bills, generate Reports by County codes  • Using Laravel 5.x/VueJs 2.x to speed up development  • Design ROAR Web App to allow external users to download an Excel file with all their properties Tax information and be able to Accept or Reject individual entries and process them. Generating up to date reports. https://app.nassaucountyny.gov/ARC/ROAR/login  • Re factorize Cash Bail Web App which is used to import all County Court Bails, process them and generate checks and custom Reports (under development)  • Design and develop a quick Excel upload Web App to get Par Id customer information  • Designed MySQL tables  • Optimized Complex queries MySQL, breaking sub queries into temporary tables and used Joins to speed up slow queries  • Laravel Authentication with LDAP  • Create a REST API for Vue.js FrontEnd  • Consume SOAP API for Jail System    Environment: PHP 7.0, MySQL 5.6, Oracle, Laravel 5.x, Navicat 11, SSH, MVC architecture, Object-oriented Programming Paradigm, Git JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Vue.js, Ajax, Bootstrap, Linux Ubuntu 14. Software Engineer C Squared Systems - Manchester, NH January 2016 to October 2017 IDASH - an internal application for Verizon's Wireless    Responsibilities:  • Attended meetings with the client to gather requirements.  • Designed Technical Documentations for internal team and for the client to approve (Confluence)  • Participated in a code reviews  • Participate on Scrum Meeting everyday  • Worked in monthly Version Release cycles  • Kept track of the bugs in Jira/Bugzilla  • Wrote MySQL queries to get the data from the different tables.  • Wrote new Models and libraries in ZF2  • Added some new jQuery controls.  • Worked with LAMP for the full application development.  • Used Vim to write/edit batch scripts (Linux)  • Added ZF2 PHP Console commands for back end processing (Linux)  • Used of Putty to SSH into the Servers (Linux)  • Importing MySQL files directly from command line (Linux)  • Deploy iDash code through command script (Ubuntu) to each of the 20 Regional server from Verizon's using VPN (Linux)  • Used Git/SVN to Deploy code to the servers (Linux)  • Write Stored Procedures for MySQL  • Wrote Batch Scripts on Linux servers (Linux)  • Used RabbitMQ to decouple back end processing (Linux)  • Designed MySQL tables  • Investigate and test PHP 7.0 compatibility to migrate current servers.  • Optimized Complex queries MySQL, breaking sub queries into temporary tables and used Joins to speed up slow queries    Environment: PHP 7.0, 5.5, MySQL 5.6, Zend Framework 2, Navicat 11, SSH, MVC architecture, Object-oriented Programming Paradigm, Git/SVN JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Ajax, Bootstrap, Bit Bucket, RabbitMQ 3.6.1, Jira, Bugzilla, Linux Ubuntu 14. Senior PHP developer Ticktbox.com April 2014 to January 2016 Worked on developing, maintaining and supporting custom Ticktbox client sites like: https://sonyscreenings.com, https://www.lionsgatescreenings.com, https://gofobo.com, http://broadgreenscreenings.com, etc.    Responsibilities:  • Reengineered multiple segments of procedural code into OOP.  • Worked on E-Commerce payments with PayPal Pro/Pay Pal, Braintree Payments  • Used Amazon Simple Email Service (Amazon SES)  • Designed DB with referential integrity MySQL.  • Migrated the database from old gofobo.com site with Drupal to the actual site with Code Igniter and custom Ticktbox design  • Helped HR department with technical interviews for new developers  • PHP Unit testing/ Composer for package management.  • Used JavaScript/Ajax with JSON to communicate with Back end,  • Lead back end programming for a web application www.thescoutr.com using (Code Igniter Framework, Design Patterns, MySQL, GitHub, Bootstrap, Braintree for payment system, etc.).  • Trained Sonata interns into backend developers.  • Worked on Email advertising with Liveintent.com.  • Created Events registry section for tickets sales, variable commission with credit card processing - Braintree payments. Gofobo.ticktbox.com Gofobo.com  • Worked with PHP 5.5 Object Oriented Programming / MySQL  • Worked with Bootstrap / jQuery  • Added some Cron Jobs for some background tasks  • Implement email advertise with LiveIntent.com  • Worked extensively with LAMP    Environment: PHP 5.5, Code Igniter 2.2.0, Drupal, MVC architecture, Object-oriented Programming Paradigm, Amazon Server, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Ajax, Bootstrap, GitHub, JSON, AWS Email, Live Intent, Braintree Payments, PayPal, PayPal Pro, MySQL. Lead Programmer Ticktbox.com January 2015 to October 2015 Lead programmer for refactoring the site into a Laravel 5 Framework and e Commerce with PayU for credit card payments.    Responsibilities:  • Set up the repository with GitHub, deployed system with Deployhq.com and took the requirement to design and deployment stage.  • Did Database design with Laravel migrations.  • Researched how it works and how to use PayU API.  • Broke down the project into task and assigned them to the other programmers.  • Set up Libraries of PayU for payments.  • Designed API's to communicate with Leisure Loyalty system  • Worked with PHP 5.5 Object Oriented Programming / Laravel 5.X  • Worked with jQuery and Bootstrap for the Frontend  • Worked in LAMP    Environment: PHP 5.5, Laravel 5.x, MVC architecture, Object-oriented Programming Paradigm, AJAX, jQuery, PayU, GitHub, MySQL. IT Business Analyst Hunter Industries - Tijuana, MX April 2013 to December 2014 Projects:  • Started an Ignition (Inductive Automation) project for assembly lines to measure OEE real-time, with some scripting on Python  • Installed and setup 2 LAMP servers one for TJ and another for San Marcos California, for host internal development projects.  • Programmed an automatic dashboard to show efficiency graph for Molding Department (ZF2/MySQL/High Charts)  • Developed with Molding team a schedule product change screen, in order to be prepared for the next product change and measure time consuming (ZF2/MySQL/JQuery/Data Tables/CSS)  • Helped to design and develop a program to Molding-QC to capture all products defects by mold, machine and family and display real-time graphs and Reports (ZF2/MySQL/JQuery/AJAX/Data Tables/CSS)  • Worked with Molding Engineers to help them to design and programmed scripts to capture hourly Plant star OEE for all the machines and show in a web page to track OEE thought day. (ZF2/MySQL/Doctrine/ JQuery).    Responsibilities:  • Was the 2nd Level Technical Support.  • MS SQL Query building and administration.  • My SQL administration for Plant Start  • Worked with Data Tables for the frontend  • Worked with Molding and QA Engineers to take notes about their requirements.  • Based on the requirements, designed a simple Dashboard with the main information user's needed.  • Designed a MySQL database for the internal projects.  • Worked on Git and Bitbucket.org to store repositories and control version.  • Designed Labels for products boxes with SQL DB in Label View  • Worked with PHP 5.5 Object Oriented Programming / MySQL  • Worked in LAMP    Environment: PHP 5.5, Zend Framework 2, MVC architecture, Object-oriented Programming Paradigm, jQuery, Git GitHub, High Charts 3, AJAX, CSS, Data Tables, Bootstrap, MySQL, Doctrine. Senior PHP Developer Arte Digital April 2012 to April 2013 Projects:  • Frontend- Backend, Static dashboard module (High charts) as a part of programming Team using (PHP 5.3, MySQL 5, Doctrine, Zend Framework 1.11, CSS, following mockup designs)  • Developed Web services module, to get data from SAP Business Object,  • Developed dynamics charts using PHP Wrapper for High charts.  • Developed Frontend and Backend for login module, with Automatic Authenticate and Active Directory Integration.  • Object Oriented programming using ZEND standards.  • Lead programmer for a project with a Confidential Customer, using the following technologies (Zend Framework 2, PostgreSQL 9.2, JQUERY, CSS, OOP).  • Worked with PHP 5.X Object Oriented Programming / MySQL  • Worked in LAMP    Responsibilities:  • Worked on WBS reports and Case diagrams to design a programming project.  • Was the Lead developer in charge of assigning tasks and reviewing code.  • Acted as interface between the customer and the developer team.  • Designed project presentation with client.  • Made Database diagrams with MySQL Workbench.  • Worked with GIT and SVN, as collaborating tools.  • Built Online Repositories bitbucket.org for work in remote locations  • Worked with MySQL and PostgreSQL databases.  • Worked with BitBucket.org as remote repository.  • Worked with PHP 5.X Object Oriented Programming  • Developed the Design Patterns using MVC, Entity, DAO and Factory.  • Worked with Zend Framework 2  • Worked in MAMP    Environment: PHP 5.5, Zend Framework 2/1.11, MVC architecture, Object-oriented Programming Paradigm, jQuery, Git GitHub, High Charts 3, CSS, Bootstrap, Business Objects, AD, Zend, MySQL 5, PostgreSQL 9.2. Software Engineer Hirsh Industries February 2006 to April 2012 Projects:  • Installed and Managed virtual servers (VMWARE)  • Migrated In house programs from MySQL 4.0.26 to MySQL 5.5  • Rewrote PHP code to OOP PHP  • Designed and programmed a Work Order System for IT/Building Maintenance/MRO and Service areas, in order to keep track of all the users problems with real-time graphs for Mexicali and Dover Delaware(US) Facilities  • Designed and programmed a "Purchase Order" and Quote System to do all the purchasing process on a Web base system  • Designed an Internal portal Web Server to communicate information with all the users.  • Developed a control Document System to store and manage all the company documentation.  • Developed a Technical Maintenance System to keep track of all machines periodical maintenance.    Responsibilities:  • Trained users structured cabling, PBX /Technical support.  • IT budget administration.  • Was the Tech leader for meetings with all the managers to hear their problems and help them with the technology (Hardware/Programming) they need to solve their problems.  • Designed the Databases needed for the internal projects, Ticketing System, maintenance System, Web server for the Intranet, Document System, etc.  • Was the supplier relation, getting the best support and prices.  • Worked as Lead programmer to split the project into tasks and assigned them to junior developers.  • Did the User Administration with Active Directory/Exchange/Group policy/Antivirus and related tools  • Worked with local Git.  • Set up and managed the Windows2003 VPN/DHCP/DNS  • Worked PHP 4.X / 5.X Object Oriented Programming  • Worked with Zend Framework 1.X  • Worked in LAMP    Environment: PHP 5.5/4.x, Zend Framework 1.11, MVC architecture, Object-oriented Programming Paradigm, jQuery, Git, MySQL, MS SQL, VMWare. Owner TImexicali, Mexicali BC February 2002 to February 2006 Projects:  • Structured cabling solutions for small business  • Tech Lead assessor for small business  • PC Hardware seller for my customers.  • Programming solutions with PHP 4/MySQL 3    Responsibilities:  • Designed and performed structured cabling, PBX /Technical support.  • Did the Cash Flow Administration.  • Designed and programmed PHP MySQL System to help my clients to automatize their operation.  • Worked with PHP 4.X / 5  • Worked with MySQL 3    Environment: PHP 4, MySQL3, PBX system, cabling hardware. Education BS in Psychology in Psychology Universidad Del Valle De Mexico 2008 to 2011 BS in Computer Engineer in Computer Engineer Universidad Autónoma De Baja California 1997 to 2001 Skills MYSQL, Javascript, PHP, Git, CSS Certifications/Licenses ZEND CERTIFIED PHP ENGINEER April 2015 to Present http://www.zend.com/en/yellow-pages/ZEND026839 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming languages: PHP 7.0/5.x/4, JavaScript, Vue.js, jQuery, HTML, CSS  Frameworks: Zend Framework 2, Code Igniter, Laravel,  Databases: MySQL, PostgreSQL, MS SQL  Servers: Apache  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows, Mac OSX  Software architectural patterns: MVC  Programming paradigms: Imperative, Object-Oriented Programming, RESTful  Tools: Navicat, Sublime, Git, SVN