Electronics Field Service Technician Electronics Field Service Technician Dacula, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Electronics Field Service Technician Global Electronic Services - Buford, GA February 2019 to Present Repair industrial electric equipment and process control systems. Work with customers and provide field service support to identify and repair issues onsite. Senior Software Architect Insight Services Inc. - Strongsville, OH April 2007 to Present Primary developer of the LIMS, Information Systems and Manage the IT department. Developed SCADA systems for industrial manufactures using Ignition software from Inductive Automation. Managed multiple projects from concept to deployment for internal and external customers. Information Systems Manager City of Atlanta - Atlanta, GA September 2004 to April 2007 Managed the implementation and development of the Labworks LIMS/PIMS conversion form ASP.net . Developed several supporting software applications used by the department of watershed management and others with ASP, ASP.net, Visual Basic, MSSQL, Oracle, and Crystal Reports. Software Developer/Owner Landington Technologies, Inc. - Duluth, GA September 2001 to September 2004 Contract service for Microsoft ASP LIMS applications for several clients. Develop and sold office automation system EMR for Bariatric physicians. Provide hardware and networking support for several local businesses LIMS System Architect Atlanta Systems Consultants, Inc - Marietta, GA March 1995 to September 2001 Gathered system requirements, designed databases, managed projects, supervised and participated in the development of code, performed installation, start up and training of personnel. Managed software development teams for laboratory information management systems. IT Manager/Systems Administrator Hydrologic Inc. - Asheville, NC March 1995 to March 1998 Developed Custom Laboratory Information Management Systems, maintained networks and server hardware for 8 Environmental Testing Labs in the southeast. Software Developer Windsor-Moor Group Inc. - Marietta, GA September 1993 to March 1995 Developed several cross platform custom management systems. Litigation Management System, Clams GUI User Interface, Time tracking System for IT department in Visual FoxPro. Senior Software Developer Measurex Systems Inc. - Atlanta North, GA September 1983 to September 1993 Responsible for design, implementation, support and maintenance of custom Distributive Control Systems in the pulp and paper / energy industry. Education Some college Skills C# (7 years), Python (3 years), MSSQL, Visual Studio, Telerik Tools, Crystal Reports, Oracle, FoxPro, Xcode, Xamarin, ASP Classic, ASP.NET, SCADA - Ignition Software (10+ years), Javascript Military Service Branch: ASAF Service Country: United States Rank: Staff Sergeant E5 March 1979 to September 1983 Avionics Specialist F-106/F-15 CRB Electronics Repair.