Senior Consulting Software Engineer Senior Consulting <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Consulting Software Engineer - Magellan Health Work Experience Senior Consulting Software Engineer Magellan Health August 2018 to Present Lead team member responsible for the architecture, maintenance and enhancements to applications that support the business. Application is a decision support/workflow system that determines eligibility for members requesting specialty drugs.  ? Maintain and enhance .NET software backed to SQL server database.  ? Participate in systems analysis discussions to drive product enhancements.  ? Responsible for Automating processes that moves system data between application environments.  ? Utilize Agile/Scrum development methodologies to deliver software.    Environments: VB/C# ASP.NET Forms, SQL Server Expert Software Engineer Allscripts - Chesterfield, MO April 2011 to August 2018 Allscripts solutions are a robust performance improvement and business intelligence application that enables healthcare enterprises to identify opportunities to reduce costs, streamline care processes, and improve overall financial performance. Job responsibilities and technical expertise include:  ? Work in a team environment applying Agile/Scrum development methodology to build decision support and budgeting software.  ? Develop and enhance software modules to meet new business needs.  ? Participate in design discussions to help set the technical direction of software development.  ? Collaborate with quality assurance team to ensure software performs to strict standards.  ? Utilize MVVM design pattern to develop WPF application forms that back to WCF web services.  ? Use Test Driven Develop (TDD) to develop quality software. Develop unit tests and integration test by using NUnit and Moq testing frameworks.  ? Team member responsible for the uplift of products and moving them to the cloud. Tasked with writing backend restful web services returning JSON utilizing the MVC design pattern.    Environments: VB/C# Windows Forms, WPF, WCF Web Services, SQL Server Senior Software Engineer MasterCard - O'Fallon, MO September 2007 to April 2011 Responsible for architecting, developing and supporting a suite of applications to assist business users maintain benefits and services for customers. Initiatives include:  ? Develop WCF web service application for 3rd party to retrieve benefit information.  ? Integrate a WCF Web service into existing application to access benefit information from a 3rd party.  ? Rewrite a benefits and services application. Application assigned benefits and services to cards.  ? Develop Vendor Maintenance tool to aid users in maintaining internal employee and vendor relationships. Tool also maintained vendors and benefits they provided or administered.  ? Develop Benefit Maintenance tool that allowed the entry of benefits.  Environments: C#, ASP.Net, Oracle, Visual Studio .NET, AJAX, Telerik  Controls, PVCS, IIS 7.0 Contractor Strategic Staffing Solutions - O'Fallon, MO January 2006 to August 2007 for MasterCard  Software Engineer  As a team member, responsible for the rewrite of a CDI (Customer Data Integration) application. Application used to maintain member information.    Environments: Multi-tier architecture, C#, DB2, Visual Studio .NET, XML Systems Developer Interthinx - Weldon Spring, MO March 2005 to November 2005 Working in a team environment or independently, responsible for existing product enhancements and new product development for this company whose products detect fraud in the mortgage industry.    Environments: Multi-tier architecture, VB.NET, C#, ASP.Net, SQL Server 2000, ASP 3.0, Visual Studio .NET, IIS 5.0, 6.0 Contractor iBridge Solutions - St. Louis, MO April 2003 to March 2005 for Anheuser-Busch Web Developer Gateway To The Web - St. Louis, MO March 2002 to April 2003 Responsible for designing and developing web based business solutions for customers. Also responsible for maintaining and enhancing existing customer and in-house applications that include client/server, web applications and databases. Successful projects include:    Prototyped an email sending component in ASP.Net/C# to be used for various customer's web sites to send solicited email to their customers.    Environment: 3-Tier architecture, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Visual Studio.NET  Framework, MS SQL Server 2000.    Team member responsible for design & developing a web site for lawyers to buy bonds.    Environment: 3-Tier architecture, Visual Basic.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Visual  Studio.NET Framework, MS SQL Server 2000.    Developed a web-based marketing tracking application that gathers information from users as they navigate the web site. Users would be notified of promotions through various marketing channels that would be logged upon first hitting the web site.    Environment: 3-Tier architecture, Visual Basic .NET, SQL Server 2000, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Visual Studio .NET    Designed and Developed an appointment calendar system for a doctor's office that allowed patients to schedule and cancel appointments over the internet.  Environment: 2-Tier architecture, SQL Server 2000, ADO, ASP/HTML, JavaScript, VBScript, Visual Studio 6.0    Develop a dynamically driven informational web site that consisted of displaying a group of doctor's biographies, office hours, and hospitals where they treat patients. Information would be updated through a site manager where the content would be add/updated and stored in a database for display on web pages.  Environment: 2-Tier architecture, VBScript, SQL Server 2000, ASP/HTML, JavaScript, Visual Studio 6.0 Software Consultant G.A. Sullivan - Maryland Heights, MO August 1998 to December 2001 Responsible for providing customers with business application solutions. On-the-job accomplishments include:    Developed an application used to track automobile leases, leased vehicles, insurance, and customer invoicing/billing.  Environment: 4-Tier architecture, Visual Basic 6.0, SQL Server 7.0, COM+, Windows 2000, ADO    Successfully designed, developed and implemented an Internet application for use in records retention. Application provided a means for identifying what records in storage facilities could be legally destroyed based on state and federal retention laws.  Environment: 3-Tier architecture, ASP/HTML, Visual Basic 6.0, MTS, Windows  NT, SQL Server 7.0, JavaScript, VB Script, Microsoft IIS, Crystal Reports 8.0, ADO, Visual Interdev    Team member responsible for development and implementation of an Internet job search site for healthcare professionals.  Environment: 3-Tier architecture, ASP/HTML, Visual Basic 6.0, MTS, Windows  NT, SQL Server 6.5, JavaScript, VB Script, Microsoft IIS, ADO, Visual Interdev    Intranet application used by client for asset tracking of computer equipment. Application included the ability to track computers, how it was configured, what was attached to it (monitor, printer, etc.) and the users who operate the equipment.  Environment: 3-tier architecture, ASP/HTML, JavaScript, VB Script, Oracle, MTS, Microsoft IIS, Microsoft Internet Explorer, Visual Interdev Programmer/Analyst World Wide Technology - Maryland Heights, MO January 1997 to August 1998 Develop custom document management and imaging workflow applications using Visual Basic interfacing with FileNet's document management systems.  Environment: Visual Basic, FileNet API, Access, SQL Server, ODBC    Successfully attained Certified Document Imaging Architect (CDIA) status (6/98). Software Engineer Metter's Industries, Inc - St. Louis, MO March 1996 to December 1996 Responsible for designing, developing, and testing a Maintenance Planning and Execution (MP&E) software system in a team environment. This system provides maintenance program planning, execution, and management functionality for all Department of Defense end users.  Environment: C, Oracle, UNIX Test Engineer Capcom Coin-Op, Inc - Arlington Heights, IL June 1993 to January 1996 Design and develop tests for components used in pinball games. Tests were programmed with Assembly code in the application of an 87C51 based 8-bit microcontroller. Daily documentation was used to closely assist engineers in product improvement and reliability. Responsibilities include:  Environment: Assembly, Windows 3.1 Education B.S. degree in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING Southern Illinois University - Carbondale, IL December 1992 Skills ADO, DATABASE, ADO.NET, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, c# (10+ years), .NET (10+ years), REST (1 year), API (1 year)