Technical Lead/Architect/ Developer Technical Lead/Architect/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Technical Lead/Architect/ Developer Work Experience Technical Lead/Architect/ Developer Fidelity Investments September 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Managing and leading team members; allocating stories and tasks among team members and mentoring team members during the project, till final delivery.  • Holding review meetings to monitor progress of the project as per schedule and ensuring timely completion and delivery of the project to the client.  • Conducting system study and coordinating with team members for requirements mapping, system design & integration, implementation, etc.  • Delivering and implementing the project as per scheduled deadlines; extending post-implementation and maintenance support to the technical support to team and client.  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, architecture, design, development, testing and deployment of application in an agile development environment.  • Developed CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features of the application functionality using Angular.js, Backbone.js, Knockout.js.  • Created Angular JS custom as reusable components in business applications.  • Created Angular JS templates for dynamic web pages on the client side.  • Used Angular JS Routes, Built-in services like Location, Scope, Window, http and RouteParams.  • Developed custom directives, filters and service using AngularJS for reusability.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Involved in the development of UI pages using HTML5, XHTML, XSL, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Use BOOTSTRAP and LESS CSS to make application Responsive. Involved in upgradation and maintenance of new layout using the Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using, AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Used NPM and Bower for packaging Management and Grunt for UI Task runner.  • Wrote RESTful micro service to fetch funds, analysts, trades for covered securities and integrated the service in UI to be consumed in multi-column lookup edit context search and combo box edit controls for reports menu.  • Created Splunk usage statistics reports, dashboards and alerts to notify users when reports are missing in network location.  • GUI development by creating and consuming RESTful and SOAP web services using .Net WPF and C#.  • Integration of web services, aggregation, filtering and grouping retrieved data using LINQ based on requirements.  • Building Composite Components for re-using the functionality in many pages within the application or other projects.  • Developed the reusable templates and style sheets within the UI Standards and guidelines  • Creating CSS(Cascading Style sheets) styles that are consistent across all applications and browsers  • Used GIT to commit the code into the repository.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.    Environment:  Angular JS, Backbone JS, Node JS, HTML5, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSF2.2, JSON, Responsive Design, XSLT, XML, RAD, Dust JS, GIT, Grunt, Jenkins, Bootstrap, Java, NPM, Bower. Lead Software Application Developer Credit Suisse November 2013 to September 2014 Description:  Market data commodities IT business is heavily dependent on the accuracy and timely arrival of market data. This is especially true but not limited to the index business. Currently, there is vast infrastructure within IT for market data; however, this project aims to provide for the following enhancements: consistent approach for market feeds, consistent approach for monitoring and fixing issues, and enhanced platform for support and turnaround time.  Responsibilities:  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework Angular JS.  • Use custom directives for code reuse across the application.  • Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using AngularJS MVC architecture  • Implemented a security module in AngularJS which integrated with the spring security in the backend with Authentication and Authorization.  • Used AngularJS to decouple DOM manipulation from application logic.  • Developed web application by using AngularJS, NodeJS, BackBoneJS MVC frameworks.  • Developed CRUD (create, read, update and delete) functionalities using AngularJS, NodeJS and BackboneJS.  • Implemented service calls using NodeJS.  • Used Grunt for compiling LESS.  • Used React.js to build reusable components and for creating user interfaces.  • Extensive use of Alerts, Navs, Glyph icons, Grids, Panels, Buttons, Media Objects and Progress Bars provided by Twitter Bootstrap framework.  • Hands on experience with Object Oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client side validations using Angular Directives and JQuery functions.  • Incorporated various JQuery Widgets such as Date picker, Dialogs, Tabs, AutoComplete, Spinner, Accordion and Tooltips into portal Dashboard.  • Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using HTML5, XHTML, CSS3.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Restful Web APIs, Web Services.  • Develop and manage 31 market data feeds, which aggregate data from market sources such as Bloomberg, Reuters, and the International Exchange (ICE)  • Involved in creating common server code library using Web API, DDD, Nhibernate, Text Templates and NUnit for new features  • Connecting to external SFTP server from CS network using CLEO tool to download DJUBS tickers and parse it to push to MDS (Market Data Server).  Environment:  Angular JS, Node JS, Backbone JS, React JS, JavaScript, Ajax, SVN, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JSON, SASS, Spring Rest Web services. Lead Developer Medicaid, State of Mississippi - Jackson, MS July 2013 to November 2013 Description:  This project is to ensure access to health services for the Medicaid eligible population in the most cost efficient and comprehensive manner possible and to continually pursue strategies for optimizing the accessibility and quality of health care.  Responsibilities:  • Client interaction and requirement gathering.  • Used front end web development tools HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery to design UI.  • Creating and consuming WCF web services in the application.  • Used ASP.Net Cache concepts to improve application performance.  • Used ASP.Net 4.0, C# for designing and development of web forms.  • Used ASP.NET MVC 4 framework for developing application.  • Used nHibernate for mapping the objects on to the database tables  • Worked on Import and Export of data using DTS in SQL Server 2008.  • Tracking of deliverables using Microsoft Project Plan.  • Used Agile Methodologies (SCRUM) for regular adaption to changing requirements, Standup and continuous delivery of useful and working software.  • Fixing and Testing of development and production issues.  • Preparing HLD, LLD, Review Reports, Test Cases & Deployment documents.  Environment: ASP.Net 4.0, C#, MVC 4, WCF, nHibernate, SQL Server 2008, , HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery , Microsoft project plan, MS Visio 2007 Lead Developer Pennsylvania Lumberman Insurance, PA August 2012 to June 2013 Description:  Billing as a Service (BaaS) is a comprehensive; on-demand cloud based billing automation solution that allows carriers to reduce the cost of billing operations and improve customer satisfaction.  Responsibilities:  • Effectively understanding the business requirements, analyze, design, development & testing the system, providing suggestions, solutions, ensuring that project deliverables are completed on time.  • Preparing HLD, LLD, Review Reports, Test Cases & Deployment documents.  • Designing of Activity, Class, Sequence diagrams using MS Visio 2007.  • Creating Custom Approval Workflows with Initiation and Association forms.  • Developed Visual Web Parts integrating with WCF service using VS 2010.  • Used SharePoint Designer 2010 for creating workflows.  • Creating InfoPath 2010 Forms and integrating with SharePoint 2010.  • Developed and deployed InfoPath forms and creating workflows as per business requirements.  • Used IBM Websphere MQ 7 to consume XML messages from MQ and parse the XML messages and stored in SQL Server database.  • Used ASP.Net 4.0, C# for designing and development of web forms.  • Developed of PL/SQL Stored Procedures.  • Deploying Solution Package, Unit Testing.  • Used SVN as code source control management.  • Providing technical solutions, support, approach, guidance and directions to the team to ensure that the team objectives are met and they can achieve their respective targets.  Environment: SharePoint 2010, SPD 2010, ASP.Net 4.0, C#, WCF, , HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery , SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g, Microsoft Visio 2007, SVN, IBM Web sphere MQ 7.1.0.0, VS 2010, MS Visio 2007. Senior .Net developer Barclays Finance December 2010 to July 2012 Description:  "CAS" is a Centralized Activation System used for creating and configuration of products and services as per requirements by the end user and customization of the application.  Responsibilities:  • Creation of High Level & Low Level design documents and Development Class diagrams & Sequence diagrams as part of system design for the various initiatives using Visio.  • Interact with the client to get the Business and functional requirements.  • Used ASP.Net 4.0, C# for designing and development of web forms.  • Experience in ASP.Net cache concepts and improving application performance.  • Experience in creating and consuming Restful WCF services.  • Developed forms using MVC framework.  • Used Microsoft Moles for creating testing framework.  • Development of PL/SQL Stored Procedures to be used by the DA layer using SQL Server 2008.  • Design and Development of Critical Presentation, Business and Data Access layers using C#.Net.  • Used JQuery, Java Script and Validation Controls for client side validations.  • Prepared Unit Test cases and System Test Plan for the project.  • Performed unit testing and iterative development.  Environment: ASP.Net 4.0, C#, Restful WCF services, S, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery , QL Server 2008, Oracle 10g, VS 2010, SharePoint 2010, SPD 2010, JQuery, JavaScript, Design patterns, UML concepts, Database design concepts, Microsoft Visio 2007. Sr. Software Engineer KPMG July 2008 to June 2009 Self Help Work is an end user web site where he can maintain his health related information, daily routine checkup, keep track of daily consumed and burned calorie, able to see his daily routine charts. Useful health related article and also he can maintain his social activity.  Responsibilities:  • Client Interaction and Requirement Gathering.  • Used ASP.Net 3.5, C# for designing and development of web forms.  • Developed Visual Web Parts integrating with WCF service.  • Creating and Customizing Lists, Content Types, Fields, Event Receivers, Document Libraries.  • Creating InfoPath 2010 Forms and integrating with SharePoint 2010.  • Implementing Business Connectivity Service integrating external content type with WCF service.  • Creating Custom Approval Workflows with Initiation and Association forms.  • Deploying Solution Package, Unit Testing.    Environment: ASP.Net 3.5, C#, SharePoint 2010, SPD 2010, VS 2010, SQL Server 2008, InfoPath 2010, Windows 2008 Server. Sr. Software Engineer eAUDIT July 2007 to June 2008 Description:  eAudIT is delivering excellence in client and people experience by facilitating the performance of efficient and effective audits using electronic leading-edge technology.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Research and Development (RND) and Creating Proof of Concepts applications for client by using WPF and WCF.  • Designing and Development of XAML pages and XAML Code Components in WPF.  • Consuming WCF Services in eAudIT application and binding data to different WPF controls.  • Used Singleton, Observer and Factory design patterns.  • Used Infragistics ultra suite for developing WPF forms.  • Developed WPF forms using MVVM framework.  • Used TFS as code source control management.  • Designing of Activity, Class, Sequence diagrams using MS Visio 2007.  • Designing and Development of classes and generic collections, consuming it in eAudIT application.  • Designing of Tables using Normalization and Development of Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Views, Triggers.  • Developed Restful web services.  • Integrating FxCop Tool in the project and using it for Code Optimization.  • Generating reports for the Work Items Created, by using TFS which is the Source Control for this project.  • Used OOAD concepts for designing the application.  • Used Agile process for completing deliverables on time.  • Used Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) for designing and development of application.  • Used SSRS to create reports as per requirements.  Environment: WPF, WCF, C#, SQL Server 2008, TFS, FxCop Tool, Infragistics Controls, Design patterns, UML concepts, Database design concepts, VS 2008, Oracle 10g. Sr. Software Engineer ICICI Bank - Mumbai, Maharashtra February 2007 to June 2007 Description:  This project involves collecting of various financial & non-financial data from group companies, consolidation of the same in some cases, and in other cases listing the data group company-wise, depending on the report format. The application so developed generates reports of all financial and non-financial data of group companies, as defined in the reporting guidelines of RBI.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on XML, XSD, DTD and XSLT to validate, parse and store XML data in SQL Server database.  • Used MVC framework for designing and development of application.  • Used AJAX techniques to improve performance of the application.  • Design and development of SOAP web services.  • Calling SOAP web services using AJAX calls from JavaScript files.  • Managing styles, themes using CSS.  Environment: ASP.Net 3.5, C#, SQL Server 2005, TFS, VS 2008. Sr. Software Engineer INTEGRATED CALCULATOR October 2006 to January 2007 Description:  This calculator gives the RAROC(Risk adjusted return on economic capital) for a particular product and the overall RAROC for a deal consisting of different products. It uses individual product calculators like Bank Guarantee Calculator, Export for Credit Calculator, Dealer/Vendor Financing Calculator to calculate RAROC.  Responsibilities:  • Client Interaction and Requirement Gathering.  • Designing of Activity, Class, Sequence diagrams using MS Visio 2007.  • Used MVC framework for designing and development of application.  • Development of stored procedures, user defined functions and normalization of tables.  • Development of ASP.Net pages using HTML, Web Server, Validation controls and .Net code components.  • Used AJAX calls for calling the web service from JavaScript files.  • Using cache concepts to improve performance of the ASP.Net pages using JavaScript and AJAX respectively.  Environment: ASP.Net 3.5, C#, SQL Server 2005, TFS, VS 2008. Sr. Software Engineer SINGLE SIGN ON (SSO) May 2006 to September 2006 Description:  This project was developed to integrate the entire web applications into one single sign on so that the user has to login only once and then he can access all the applications assigned to him by the administrator.  Responsibilities:  • Designing and development of classes and collections and consuming it in project.  • Used cache concepts and development of client side validations and experience in improving performance of the ASP.Net pages using JavaScript and AJAX respectively.  • Designing of Tables using Normalization and Development of Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions.  Environment: ASP.Net 3.5, C#, SQL Server 2005, TFS, VS 2008. Software Engineer HR Mantra - IN November 2005 to May 2006 Project Name: HRM PAYROLL  Description:  In the payroll system the employees are paid depending on their Pay type, Pay frequency and Pay period.  Responsibilities:  • Designing and development of ASP.Net pages using HTML, Web Server, Validation controls and .Net code components.  • Designing and development of classes and collections and consuming it in project.  • Development of client side validations and experience in improving performance of the ASP.Net pages using JavaScript and AJAX respectively.  • Designing of Tables using Normalization and Development of Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions.  • Worked on XML, XSD, DTD and XSLT to validate, parse and store XML data in SQL Server database.  Environment: ASP.Net 2.0, C#, SQL Server 2005, TFS, VS 2005. Software Engineer Vision 3K Technologies March 2005 to October 2005 Description:  There are hourly and salaried employees. In the payroll system these employees are paid depending on their Pay type, Pay frequency and Pay period.  Responsibilities:  • Designing and Development of Reports for clients using Crystal Reports.  • Testing of application and fixing defects.  Environment: ASP.Net 2.0, C#, SQL Server 2000, TFS, VS 2003, Crystal Reports. Software Engineer TAX October 2004 to March 2005 Description:  This project was a web application created for our US based client 'Tax$imple' for generating and printing Tax Forms. It is a powerful package that allows you to prepare form W-2, W-2c, W-3, W-3c forms.  Designated agents enter the data required for each form and submit it. At the end of the day, they were supposed to send report for their work, which is implemented in Crystal reports.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on creating the UI pages using ASP.Net.  • Implemented the server side business logic for validating the data entered by agents and update it to database.  • Used Crystal Reports for generating reports on daily basis and send it client.  • Participated in all phases of software development, unit testing and deployment  Environment: ASP.Net 1.1, C#, SQL Server 2000, TFS, VS 2003, Crystal Reports. Education B.E in Bachelor of Computer Engineering Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra Additional Information Technologies  ASP.NET, C#, WPF, WCF, MVC, MVVM, SHAREPOINT, SPD, IBM WEBSPHERE, Microsoft Moles, HTML5, CSS3, SOAP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Web Services, Python, Crystal Reports, SSRS, Apache, Java, Bootstrap.    JavaScript frameworks AngularJS, JQuery, BackboneJS, KnockoutJS, NodeJS.  Tools  JetBrians dotPeek, JENKINS, WinScp, SOAP SONAR, JMETER, STS, RTC, DevExpress, Infragistics, Telerik, FxCop, GIT Bash, GIT Extensions, GIT, TFS, SVN, VSS, MIMIC, Eclipse, Diagnostics-ADAPT, CLEO, Poderosa, PUTTY, SNOOP, SQL Developer, SQL Server.    IDE & Tools VS, STS, Eclipse, SP Designer, Microsoft Project Plan, Visio.  Frameworks MVVM, MVC, log4Net.    Design Skills OOAD, SOA and Design Patterns.  Development methodologies UML, SDLC.  Databases SQL Server, Oracle.