SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER IN TEST SENIOR <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> IN TEST SENIOR SOFWARE DEVELOPER IN TEST - Defense Language Institute Foreign Language Center Marina, CA Senior level software engineer shaping the organization's technological vision. Implement Object-Oriented Design Methodologies and Integrated Development and software design, development, writing scripts, testing, and quality assurance (Q/A). Create scalable web applications. Proactively engage with cross functional teams to resolve issues and drive design solutions. Direct and mentor others in critical thinking. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER IN TEST Defense Language Institute Foreign Language Center - Monterey, CA 2017 to Present • Write Selenium Automation testing in C#  • Write clear, concise detail oriented Test Plans, Test Strategy and test cases  • Manage defect tracking and defect maintenance and perform defect root cause analysis  • Deliver effective & comprehensive testing to ensure the highest quality software within the timeframe of Agile sprints  • System integration, complex processes, and end-to-end/integration testing  • Coordinate with multiple system teams as part of integration testing  • Generate daily and weekly reports to communicate project status  • Work with Business teams to contribute towards complete coverage of requirements and testing  • Contributes to the implementation and continual improvement of QA standards, processes and procedures SENIOR EMBEDDED SOFTWARE ENGINEER IN TEST Cryptology Research - San Francisco, CA 2014 to 2017 • Full-stack development  • Design and implement software of embedded devices and systems from requirements to production, including code, test and debug system software.  • Analyze and enhance efficiency, stability, and scalability of system resources.  • Create test plans and test cases based on analysis of requirements and specifications.  • Execute tests, test harnesses, and test sequences to achieve high quality code development.  • Create use simulation tools for testing embedded systems, optimizing test execution time and reducing complexity of running and debugging end-to-end test using C/C++.  • Leverage automation tools to establish test automation framework and to establish a regression test environment, and integrated framework with nightly build system.  • Collaborate with software developers to diagnose defects and validate fixes.  • Plan and execute plan test strategies based on project scope and delivery dates.  • Identify functional requirements and testability issues, and support specification reviews.  • Review customer software documentation to ensure quality in technical accuracy and completeness. SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER Intel, Inc - Santa Clara, CA 2011 to 2014 • Made significant contributions to design, development, and validation of testability circuits.  • Ensured testability and manufacturability of integrated circuits from component feasibility stage through the production ramp.  • Evaluated, developed, debugged complex test methods and debugged complex software programs.  • Developed and automated build and test infrastructure and provided the tools and methodologies to improve the validation process.  • Created and tested validation and production test hardware solutions.  • Guaranteed component margin to specification through tests, modifications, and redesign.  • Applied concepts that optimized component production relative to quality and cost constraints.  • Debugged system level system on chip (SOP) component failures and identified root cause of failures working in collaboration with technical leads, design, and architecture teams. SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER Market America, Inc - Monterey, CA 2008 to 2011 • Used scripts for Adobe Flash software to demonstrate artwork creation, import images, sound, and video and incorporate animation techniques.  • Designed and developed automation script using Selenium.  • Reviewed, analyzed, and critiqued specifications for site UI and functionality, and coordinated efforts with Engineering, Marketing, and Product Management to align specifications and test plans  • Investigated anomalies for defects through design QA tests and validated fixes for major, emergency and mini releases.  • Defined, implemented, executed, and documented test cases / test scripts, and executed daily site QA test suites, analyze results and follow up on escalated issues.  • Developed and executed functional tests using API built on C#, C/C++ and SQL and GUI applications.  • Delivered new product functionality using C, C++, XML.  • Applied Black Box /White Box software testing methods and query optimization to identify bottlenecks. SOFTWARE ENGINEER Northrup Grumman - Monterey, CA 2003 to 2008 • Designed, implemented, and maintained software solutions for broad range of applications.  • Analyzed software requirements and performed design, coding, unit testing, integration, verification and configuration management.  • Developed new product functionality using C, C++, XML.  • Executed independent validation and verification (IV&V) activities for development requirements, design, implementation, test and installation, and checkout.  • Successfully created CPPUNIT test cases, files, & builds for a ColdWarrior Arm GPS project written in C++ under the Microsoft Visual C++ environment.  • Created stub functions to test functions in the source code.  • Used Coverity Prevent automated approach to ensure highest-quality, most reliable software at the earliest phase of the development lifecycle.  • Wrote scripts that correlated events reported to the Event Management Console communicating application status to the Computer Associates Portal.  • Developed Check-List Software for Comparing Two Database Structures.  • Scanned BIDS database for objects, object properties, table name status and table column properties to create an XML file to compare database structure differences.  • Developed and tested the IACS & BIDSKU Crystal Reports 7 & 9 with the IACS & BIDS-KU software, running as an independent software, enabling reports in OCX and RDC environments.  • Created Crystal Report 9 run time files distribution setup package, allowing it to run in interactive setup mode or a silent setup mode (no window popup), automatically installing required Crystal Runtime components and files without user intervention. SOFTWARE ENGINEER IBM Silicon Valley Lab - San Jose, CA 2000 to 2003 • Provided builds and patches to support for the BI development teams at Silicon Valley Lab, working on DB2 Control Center/390 and Data Warehouse Center functions remote from Toronto.  • Ran daily local builds, maintained makefiles and build scripts, performed CMVC tasks and assisted development (debug and code Java/C++) and testing.  • Wrote scripts to auto-install and auto-configure DB2 on Windows. SOFTWARE ENGINEER Northrup Grumman - Sunnyvale, CA 1998 to 2000 • Developed and maintained a mission critical system by providing analysis and proposed solutions to technical problems using UNIX/C on SUN Solaris.  • Applied API client libraries and SQL to manage database programming interface to RDBMS, including Sybase and Oracle.  • Created GUIs using X-Windows / Motif, and Java. SOFTWARE ENGINEER EG&G IC Sensors - Milpitas, CA 1994 to 1998 • Provided software components in Visual Basic/ PASCAL/C for EG&G automatic test equipment for Macintosh and IBM PC.  • Designed and developed GUI for data acquisition, algorithm implementation and displayed results such as histograms, text information extraction.  • Enhanced and improved the ACCEL foundation class library for data management in EG&G automatic test equipment.  • Developed, documented and tested PLEXUS ObjectServer in C under UNIX platform to improve image storage capability.  • Ported ObjectServer among various UNIX platforms., and acted as a UNIX/SUN system admin. to verify performance of ObjectServer.  • Successfully teamed software and firmware engineers to develop the Symbios Logic product with high speed and easy implementation architecture.  • Delivered new user interface programs using Visual Basic on MS Windows.  • Developed and delivered a database system in C and C++ using Raima database design tools.  • Designed and implemented driver software.    Technology Summary  Computer Languages:  • Korn/Bourne/C shell scripts, Javascript, Windows NT script, PL/SQL script, SQL, C/C++/Java, Visual Basic/VC++, Perl/TK, PASCAL, FORTRAN, BASIC, LISP, VAX Assembly, HTML/XML/CSS, X-windows/Motif, Crystal Report 7.0 & 9.0, SAS, JCL, Python, ASP.NET Education BS in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science University of California, Berkeley - Berkeley, CA June 1994 Skills FLASH (3 years), ARM (5 years), SUN (6 years), UNIX (6 years), SELENIUM (4 years) Additional Information Operating Systems:  • UNIX (AIX/BSD/HP/Solaris/AT&T), PC OS, Windows NT/2003/XP/Vista, MAC OS, CodeWarrior Arm    Software:  • Adobe Flash, CMVC, DB2 7.0/8.0, DB2 Tools, GCC/Gmake/meta make, bakefile, Lotus Notes, Exceed, VM, Sybase 11.9.2, Sybase 11.5.1, Oracle 8.0.3, DDTS, Query Management Facility, Ingres, Raima, WinRunner test tools, Selenium and Mercury test tools, Microsoft FrontPage Explorer 3.0, MySQL, Doxygen, IBM Rational ClearCase/ClearQuest/RequisitePro/ TestManager, OpenAM, JARA    Hardware Platform:  • IBM/SUN/HP/SGI Workstations, PC and Macintosh