Enterprise Architect Enterprise Architect MS, MBA, PMP Albany, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Enterprise Architect New York State Office of Information Technology Services - Albany, NY June 2019 to Present Sr. Application Developer Excel - Albany, NY December 2016 to Present Designed, coded, tested, maintain and deployed different prime-faces responsive web apps for academic purposes such as Student Registration, Student Profile, Student Apply, Student Acceptance and Course Registration.     Develop and maintain a highly reusable java-component to manage the front-end based on configuration files. This component was used across different apps to render and validate different fields based on configuration. This component allowed to save a huge amount of time in design, coding and testing.    Responsible for the integration/migration between Liferay Content Management and our Web apps using Liferay APIs, Restful and Json.    Provide maintenance and improvements to legacy systems such as the Student Information System. Redesigned, updated and rewrote legacy web apps into prime-faces responsive apps, this also involved redesign of complete GUIs.    Conducted code reviews, code enhancements, refactoring through different java applications. Monitoring code-resource efficiency, logs, bugs, exception handling, caching, etc. Emphasize in code/component reusability and component-base development.    Provide support to the implementation of a financial ERP System; UNIT4 Business world. Software Engineer Navisite - Syracuse, NY November 2011 to October 2016 NAVISITE INC. (Time Warner Cable Company), Syracuse, NY 2011 – 2016  Software Engineer (Front-end & Back-end, J2EE, JSF, Oracle, MySQL)  Developed, maintained, tested, and deployed Java enterprise applications and full stack development.     Project: Audit Management System for Department of Transportation, cultivated on Agile Scrum  •Designed, created, and deployed JSF-Prime faces responsive web application for auditing companies, utilizing JSF, Shiro, Maven, Git, MySQL, and Apache TomEE architecture, utilized by auditors documenting issues and assignment for resolution.    •Generated approximately 80% of web software development in front and back-end, successfully completed, passing quality assurance, meeting specifications, deadlines, and delivering for sale to customer.     •Refined requirements, conducted regression testing, code reviews, and performance improvements, delivering high quality product for customer satisfaction.     Project: Drupal 7 Content Management platforms for Department of State and CDTA  •Created and tested web forms, views, pages, Drupal modules, and web reports, allowing communication with public users regarding inquiries, tracking site performance, and usage.    •Customized modules in Php and Drupal, themes and feature, providing additional and customized core functionality, personal site look and feel, and alternative user dependent views.    Project: JobZone, CareerZone, and Job Search Engine Portal for NY Department of Labor   •Established application, using OSGI Framework interacting with different bundles, web services, and search engines (Lucene), utilizing Hibernate, Oracle, and Glassfish, allowing efficient development for solid and robust software currently available to 1000+ users in NY State.    •Re-designed search screens of portal (Job Zone & Career Zone), creating more attractive, intuitive, and user interface.  •Implemented front-end validations, sub-routines, customized styles sheets, web components, and Widgets, allowing software rich module, helping users dynamically and efficiently interact with program, and extra functionality not provided by prime faces framework.     •Updated search engine components and created queries for Lucene framework, permitting efficient and fast data access, from web app to search engine.    •Tuned existing queries for Oracle and control number of database calls, providing improved performance and response time.    •Proposed refactoring, GUI, and code enhancements during development process, creating easier coding, maintenance, testing, efficient use of resources, and memory. J2EE Developer Peruvian Ministry of Economics and Finance - Lima, Lima June 2008 to June 2010 Project: “SIGA” Integrated logistics system for Ministry of Economics    •Refined requirements, coding, testing, and bug fixing, maintaining multi-database distributed web application (MVC Struts) for logistic and accounting.    •Developed and maintained Java web program from legacy Power Builder version, used as internal logistic system by 100+ users in ministry, controlling resources and materials used by different subsidiaries nationwide.    •Collaborated on development of Prototype Project in Ext-JS framework deployed at WebSphere, generating proof of concept testing rich components.     •Established, maintained, and tested data transaction services and migration procedures in Oracle and Sql Server, successfully migrating logistic data into Data Mart.     •Implemented procedures, jobs, packages, and triggers in T-SQL & PL/SQL for data cleaning and distribution before migration. J2EE Developer Cosapisoft, National Bank - Lima, Lima November 2006 to April 2008 Project: “Digital Signature” Banking application managing customer digital signatures for National Bank    •Engineered, maintained, and tested small internal banking Java enterprise application used by 100+ clients, utilizing Struts from Visual Basic legacy system (Develop from zero), and SQLServer 2000 deployed in WebSphere, managing customer information, transactions, digital signatures, communicating, and transferring data.    •Devised Java Web software, handling images and pdf documents using Struts, Hibernate and spring employing Tomcat, utilized by users managing internal documentation. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration (GPA 3.9) State University of New York at Oswego - Oswego, NY 2016 Master of Science in Software Engineering (GPA 3.4) Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY 2011 Bachelor of Science in Computing and System Engineering San Martin de Porres University - Lima, Lima Skills J2EE, JSP, JSF, Struts, MVC, Servlets, Prime Faces, JPA, Hibernate, Ibatis, spring, Swing, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Ajax, HTML, XML, Php, Drupal 7 CMS, Liferay Dxp, Jasper Report, Maven, Google App Engine, SQLServer 2000, 2005, Oracle 10g, Postgres, MySQL, PL/SQL and T-SQL, Eclipse, NetBeans, IReport, IBM RAD, IBM, Web Sphere, Glassfish, Apache Tomcat, TomEE, GitHub Certifications/Licenses Oracle DBA OCA Scrum Master ITIL Foundations PMP February 2018 to February 2021