Senior Software Engineer / Architect Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer / Architect Senior Software Engineer / Architect - Viper softworks LLC Cibolo, TX A position in the Computer Science field as a Senior Software Engineer / Lead where acquired skills and education will be utilized toward continued growth and advancement Work Experience Senior Software Engineer / Architect Viper softworks LLC - Direct, TX December 2010 to Present • Wide area of Technologies to include:.NET, C#, WCF, WPF, ASP.NET, .NET Core 2, JavaScript, Query, Knockout, Angular 7 DB2 - IBM iSeries, Solr, Lucene, PHP, Smali, Magento, VB, C, Active-X, SQL Server, NUnit, XUnit, OO practices, TFS Source Control, SOA implementations, SSIS, and SSRS    • Provide clients with custom software development spanning several languages    • Architecting and Development hands on role    • Scrum methodology - Agile Practices (weekly scrum meetings / daily standups)  • Provide leadership to software development teams 6-8 members for software engineering services spanning application development, portal development, and Integrations  • Provide leadership on "best practices" includes the development of strategies for application development delivery for clients on time and on budget for N-Tier Microsoft solutions spanning from .NET/Core web / cloud portals to Thick client WinForms and WPF applications.  • Create policies and procedures that adhere to compliance guidelines affecting specific client environments (HIPAA/medical)  • Scrum Agile practice on all projects  • Requirement Management: IBM JAZZ, Confluence Jira, and VSTS  • Architect and Developed several MVC .net applications with heavy razor engine customizations to promote proper tiered layers for separation of concerns and testing. I.E UI, Core (Domain), Repository, Service, Presentation (controller), and Common layers.  • Pure ajax driven practices utilizing frameworks including Query, Knockout, Angular 7. Some SPA but most are hybrid with post back aggregates encompassing sub rest ajax calls (cut down on js clutter)  • Monitor service level agreements (SLAs) with clients and develop and monitor IT budgets  • Architect and configure servers and services for software utilizing best practice. Technical Lead Viper softworks LLC - San Antonio, TX December 2013 to May 2014 • Manage Team consisting of customer support specialist, Database Administration, and Software Configuration and Design.  • Help proof designs pertaining to software requirements from elected officials and Bexar County Justice Department  • Develop Tools for build process/ Configuration Management in .NET (PowerShell, TFS, .NET)  • Conduct Requirement elicitation/ status meetings weekly with Bexar County officials  • Configure software for enterprise implementation  • Architect and configure servers and services for software utilizing best practice. Senior Software Engineer / Architect DynaTouch Inc - San Antonio, TX May 2010 to May 2011 • Architect and developed n-tier applications with multi UI layers spanning cross server communication utilizing ASP.NET, C#, AJAX, JQUERY, CSS, T-SQL, ADO.NET, Active X, TFS, SQL Server, and C++. Several Hardware interfaces to include Bio Scanners, card readers, Image scanners, signature pads etc  • Perform Weekly requirements meetings with SCI stakeholders.    • Link to press release of N-Tier application Architected, developed - Arrival Manager -  • http://finance.yahoo.com/news/SCI-Solutions-Unveils-Arrival-iw-3185861866.html?x=0 Software developer TPA Benefits / BMA - San Antonio, TX February 2009 to December 2009 • Developed utilizing .net web service, SOA: windows services, VXML, OO Design practices, Win and WEB forms: Thick and Thin .NET dev, C#, TFS, Oracle, SQL Server, ASP classic and JavaScript.  • Help maintain existing web portals utilizing asp, JavaScript, and .net technologies  • Database admin and implementation utilizing TSQL, Stored procedures, views, and development and configuration of agent jobs.  • Translate BA requirements into functional/feasible technology requirements  • Developed Web Services for several health companies and hospitals.  • Developed Florida Hospital Health System Web Portal.  • Developed a claims web application for online claim processing.  • Architected and Developed IVRFax Back system Software developer G.E. Television (Direct) February 2008 to February 2009 • Developed an event management system utilizing the following technologies; hibernate, C#.Net Framework,CruiseControl.net,MSBuild, xml, WPF (Xaml), SOA: WCF, ASP.Net (Web forms), WinForms, with methodologies such as MVP.  • Currently architecting, designing, requirement eliciting, and developing an class / appointment check in / checkout related system for the organization that spans several languages including c (unmanaged Direct show calls) ,c++ ,c# (Majority of code), xaml (WPF) (UI), xml, and xslt.  • Help maintain the current websites using JavaScript, html, C#, and ASP.Net. Software Engineer tester R & J Associates - Los Angeles, CA January 2007 to February 2008 • Provided testing and review for embedded software written in C.  • Plotted cyclomatic charts for multi-conditional coverage per FAA  • White box structure verification with 100% hand calculation for all flags, variables, and all mathematical calculations.  • Macro distinction and proper compiler build verification.  • Buffer Overrun verification through MAP  • Generated preliminary (if code or path change is required) and final test summary's  • Applications and language used were Net beans -c++, Microsoft OS, and C  • Northrop Grumman Client relations Help desk (All Levels) - Southwest Research Institute Y & L Consulting Inc - San Antonio, TX July 2007 to November 2007 Consulting / Contract)  San Antonio, Texas  Contact # (210) 340-0098 ext 118  Encryption - PGP Implementation -Harman Clarke (Formally Clarke American)  Help desk (All Levels) - Southwest Research Institute 7/2007-11/2007  • Implement and troubleshoot PGP products in a high security environment.  • Provided systems engineering knowledge to personnel at the southwest Research institute during a time of transition.  • Provided Customer Relations pertaining to technical Expertise.  • Corrected network problems dealing with active directory, DNS, IP configuration, Router and HUB setup, Active directory and domain account setup dealing with permissions (Windows Auth.). Network DNS constitutes backend Linux OpenSuse with samba for Active Directory and nodes  • Applications used were Minipe, Knoppix, DBAN, Microsoft XP, Active Directory, Linux Suse, gparted, UBCD, Office, MMC, SQL Server, Access, several virus applications, VNC, Diagnostic software for hardware problems, several network tools, Ticketing Software.  • Troubleshoot every aspect of a company's IT structure from the servers and network configurations all the way down to node motherboards and memory Education Bachelor's in Software Engineering Colorado Technical University - Colorado Springs, CO February 2007 Associate Degree in Technology St. Philips College - San Antonio, TX 2001 Associate Degree in Technology St. Philips College - San Antonio, TX 2000 Skills C#, .NET, Angular 7, JQuery, .Net Core, .Net Standard, ASP.NET, WCF, .NET MVC, WPF (XAML), Java, J2EE, ASP Classic, ActiveX .net, SharePoint, LINQ, Windows Moble, xslt, C, C++, SSIS, Perl, JavaScript, HTML/ XHTML, CSS, Windows Forms, Linux (shell), Content Management Systems, JSP, VBScript, VB.net, SQL, Oracle, DB2, NUnit. (10+ years), AWS, C#, Javascript, C, Java, Linux, Python Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/srsoftwareengineer Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ May 2019 to Present MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional 2007 Additional Information RELEVANT EXPERIENCE AND SKILLS  • Experienced in the following languages:Advanced level C#, .NET, Angular 7, JQuery, .Net Core, .Net Standard, ASP.NET, WCF, .NET MVC, WPF (XAML), Java, J2EE, ASP Classic, ActiveX .net, SharePoint, LINQ, Windows Moble, xslt, C, C++, SSIS, Perl, JavaScript, HTML/ XHTML, CSS, Windows Forms, Linux (shell), Content Management Systems, JSP, VBScript, VB.net, SQL, Oracle, DB2, NUnit.  • Experience using SVN, TFS, GIT, Bitbucket source control containers including admin and setup along with JAZZ, Confluence Jira, VSTS for requirments.  • Experience using tools for CD/CI including cruise control.net, VSTS, Bamboo, and Tenacles,  • Co-Developed several health web portals/Applications for various clients including Florida Hospital System (http://www.fhhsonline.com/ ), Alwaycare - Starmount (https://www.alwaysassist.com/), and SCI (Arrival Manager)  • Advanced level in various IDE, Visual Studio (all years), NetBeans and Eclipse.  • 12 years of experience in agile (SCRUM, Extreme) environments / rapid-prototyping with 1 to 2 week sprint cycles  • Experience Architecting N-tier applications utilizing several in demand technologies  • Large code project experience: 3.4 millions lines, MVVM wpf distributed application.  • Proven practice of Design Patterns for Architectural (MVC, MVP and MVVM), behavioral (observer, Command, etc..) and Structural (Adapter, Decorator, etc.)  • Vast Experience implementing SOA architecture.  • Experience reverse engineering in Android and C/Assembly utilizing olydebug- Assembly -Smali  • Experience with Oracle and Microsoft SQL Server Relational Databases, Trans-Sql and management systems along with Solr and Lucene not sql indexing.  • Strong OO Design practices  • Skill in using the multiple operating systems and the system command and control language to perform system management and maintenance duties (MMC / COTS /DEVELOP)  • Experience managing both offshore and local environments teams consisting of software engineers, DBA's, Help Desk and Quality Control personnel.  • Understand the role of High level Requirement gathering including Use Case Scenarios, Matrices, Gantt chart, Pert charts, and WBS charts (College, Work).  • Proven skill in system analysis and design techniques, microcomputer system software in both design and develop environment, and benchmarking microcomputer computer equipment in order to perform studies to advise management on the merits of proposed applications and to develop programming specifications.  • Strong knowledge of security measures dealing with protocols, buffer overruns, etc  • Database design and construction experience.  • Experience utilizing techniques for design, develop, test and debug complex software systems.  • Knowledge of remote computing and use of telecommunications to support remote access to databases.  • Strong analytical and problem solving skills.  • Knowledge of programming and analysis techniques to serve as a systems monitor or operations troubleshooter when this involves devising recovery plans for system failure situations (backups).  • Detail and project goal Oriented.  • Great Interpersonal and collaboration skills.  • Able to work independently or in a team environment.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills.