SOFTWARE DEVELOPER <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SOFTWARE DEVELOPER - RITWIK SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGIES Work Experience SOFTWARE DEVELOPER RITWIK SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGIES December 2018 to Present • Development of AR/VR based application    • Wrote maintainable and modular code based on OOPS/OOAD    • Requirement Management of task assigned to me (Elicitation, Understanding &Analysis),    • Ensure on-time delivery with quality;    • Engaged in onshore-onshore coordination SOFTWARE DEVELOPER MCS GEOTECH (P) LTD July 2017 to November 2018 • Tested own code against the functionality described in functional document.    • Fixed bugs which were found in QA testing    • Fixed bugs reported in production.    • Wrote maintainable and modular code based on OOPS/OOAD. Education B.Tech. in Computer Science Rajasthan Technical University 2013 to 2017 CDAC June 2016 Links http://linkedin.com/in/ilamishra Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Platforms: Salesforce, Unity  • Programming Language: Java, Python, C/C++, Objective-ASP.NET, R for Data Science  • Database: MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server  • Development IDE: Eclipse, Tomcat, Visual Studio    PROJECTS  • Shri Kashi Vishwanath Virtual Darshan (2019). The project is developed in Unity and C#. This an exclusive  virtual reality application with which people around the world can get immersive experience of ''Shri Kashi  Vishwanath'' temple, Varanasi. Virtual Reality simulates a full 360-degree view of what is happening around them  and is cutting-edge technology which has crossed the barriers to enter into different industry. Simulating a physical  presence in the real and imaginary world is one of the major aspects of virtual reality.  • Exam Cell Automation System (2016-2017). The project is developed in .Net technology with SQL Server. I have  worked on both frontend and backend. The project has three user types - teaching staff, student and admin. Admin  can add, update or remove information. The admin can plan the seating arrangements which can be further shared  with staffs and students. Admin can also create mark-sheets, exam schedules, hall-tickets and also plan invigilator  schedule. The teaching staff can create questionnaire and do evaluation.  • College Management System's Content Management Module: Developed Content Management application to  document College Management System and its modules such as Branch, Course and Subject. It has two user type -  admin and the students. The admin has the right to add, remove and update the subject and course for branch. The  admin has all the information about students. There is registration functionality where students can register. Student  can only view the course and the subject related content of respective branch. They can also add their profile picture,  change password, and update profile.