Sr. Java Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - NY City New York, NY • Developed UI layout and forms for widgets using Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and used JSON data format and followed Agile Scrum for application development.  • Java/J2EE Developer with 8 years of experience in Application Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, deployment and Maintenance/Support for Web, Standalone, and Client-Server based Software Applications using Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Java and Java EE (Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, EJB), Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, Axis), Java Script, HTML, CSS, AJAX, and XML,XSLT, Java Beans, Struts, JQuery.  • Expertise in various open source frameworks like Struts2.0/1.2, Spring 3.0, Spring Webflow, JSF1.2/2.2, and ORM Technology like Hibernate 3.0 and MyBatis.  • Experience with multiple Servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, Sun Glass fish and JBoss.  • Expertise working with standard JAVA Design Patterns (Singleton, Session Facade, Front Controller, DAO, DTO, MVC and Business Delegate).  • Good Knowledge and hands on experience on Design Patterns like Singleton Pattern, DAO patterns, MVC Pattern, Data source pattern and Factory pattern.    • Extensively involved in the integration of the Front End web interface with the Spring MVC, Angular JS, JSP, HTML 5 and CSS.  • Strong experience in RDBMS using Oracle, SQL Server, schema development, PL-SQL programming, including experience in utilizing SQL Loader utility MySQL & MySQL replication setup.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, XML and XSL/XSLT and AJAX.  • Hands on experience with the Express JS and Node JS framework which are used to build the single web page application.  • Expertise in using AWS and Openstack as cloud services.  • Extensive experience with Application/Web servers like WebLogic, WebSphere, Tomcat and JBoss and JBoss fuse technologies.  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans and RAD.  • Good knowledge of EJB Session beans with JNDI mapped naming &JMS message-driven beans.  • Experience in using Web Services like JAXP - DOM, SAX, XSLT, JAXB - Un-marshalling and marshalling, SOAP protocol in JAXWS and RESTFUL web services.  • Extensive experience with jQuery, NodeJS, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, AngularJS, and Knockout  • Hands on experience in UML Modeling, Rational Rose and Design Pattern (J2EE) like Singleton Factory Method, Facade, Front Controller, Delegate Pattern, MVC Architecture.  • Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software VSS, CVS, SVN and Clear Case.  • Expertise in implementation of web applications using frameworks such as Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF.  • Good Knowledge in coded Java applications on both client-side and server-side using JDBC and advanced multithreading  • Well versed with Server side business logic and experience in working with different databases like Oracle, MS SQL and MYSQL.  • Experience in writing ANT, Maven build scripts and configuring and using Log4j and writing JUnit test cases. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer NY City - New York, NY May 2016 to Present Project: Choice Transportation System.  Description:  Project with VNSNY (Visiting Nurse Services of New York) is Choice Transportation System. VNSNY is specialized at in-home nursing care, they have 4000 nurses visit 2 to 3 patient every day in NY City. In that process, sometimes patient need to visit doctors. For that, VNSNY will provide transportation service through transportation vendors. Choice Transportation System helps nurses to schedule and coordinate with the transportation vendors and on the other side, vendor accept / reject process is built within the system. Also system will provide numerous functionalities to Vendors / VNSNY staff like reporting, billing info, other reports.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on gathering the requirements and developing a working architecture to deploy.  • Worked on generating sequence and data flow diagrams using UML.  • Development in Java EE including GUI, business logic and data access.  • Designed and developed UI screens with JAXB and JSF (MVC) to provide interactive screens to display data.  • Used parsers like SAX and DOM for parsing xml documents and used XML transformations using JAXB.  • Developed the business layer logic and implemented EJBs Session beans.  • Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator.  • Used Apache POI-HSSF for generating reports in MS Excel and iText for generate PDF reports.  • Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring Framework.  • Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for XCode, Maven.  • Involved in creation of web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in hibernate, Used the spring container for data source and to load the Hibernate specific classes.  • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using AngularJS, EXTJS and JQUERY.  • Developed AJAX scripting to process server side JSP scripting.  • Integrated MVC framework Backbone.js to the existing web applications.  • Exposure to NoSQL database programming - Apache Cassandra.  • Worked on maintaining the database system using Sybase.  • Used XCode as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.  • Building and deploying the jar files on JBoss to support the testing and stable maintenance.  • Worked with oracle in maintaining the vendor,patient databases and connecting it by JDBC.  • Experience in writing test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on WebLogic Server.  • Develop common utilities for JSON to Java object.  • Developed the web interface and interaction using Stripes and AngularJS.  • The web interface was made easy to secure with acegi spring framework.  • Experience in working on Web Application Security scanning tools- AppScan, VeraCode.  • Analyzing report requirements and developing the reports by writing Teradata SQL Queries and using MS Excel, Power Point and UNIX.  • Write bash and Perl scripts for file maintenance and web page generation using common utilities including vim, sed, find, grep, and rsync.  • Worked to store the data on the cloud storage service.  • Developed client side application using java swing framework.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained custom Ant tasks in Java and Groovy.  • Wrote the Grails Sanitizer Plugin to address security of Rich Text in Grails applications.  • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java and related technologies using WATERFALL and AGILE (SCRUM) methodologies. Updating status on daily basis and participating in user story grooming and estimation sessions.  • Worked on writing log file using google cloud logging.  • Developed JavaBeans with Hibernate for necessary transactions like fetching the required data, updating the vendor information.  • Worked on Jenkins to integrate the code and perform testing on it.  • Participated in initial construction of a new targeted advertising product based on the Jersey Java REST framework, the ExtJS JavaScript library and ActiveMQ.  • Designed and Developed complex UI screens using Spring MVC, AJAX, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script for request management and search and filter modules.  • Ensure code quality using JUnit and Sonar.  • Consumed WODM rules from REST services.  • Providing support during QA and Integration testing.  • Connected remotely to UNIX servers using PUTTY and FTP files across different test environments by using Hummingbird and Command prompt.  • Contributing effectively at many different points in a project life cycle as an individual contributor.    Environment: Java 8, JPA, Python, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Stripes, EJB, JSF, Jquery, Ajax, Javascript, Oracle 11g, Maven, Pl/SQL, JDBC, Solr, Apache POI-HSSF, Jenkins, Cloud logging, Cloud Storage, ActiveMQ, Rest, XCode, Weblogic, Node.js, Bootstrap, Sybase, Backbone.js, Angular.js, WODM 8.1, Acegi Security, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, JBoss, Servlet, Itext,AppScan, VeraCode, WEB 2.0, SOA, PuTTY, winSCP. Sr. Java Developer Coventry Health Care - St. Louis, MO January 2014 to April 2016 Project: Online Bill Payment.  Description:  Coventry operates health plans, insurance companies, network rental and worker's compensation services companies. This project is an enhancement to the existing application. A new schema is added to the table. There will be separate ID for different types of Insurances. So all the types of insurances are added to the database and a unique key is generated to the user. So that user will have a single insurance id with different subversions depending on the type of insurance.    Responsibilities:  Responsible and mentored the team in complete software development lifecycle (SDLC) tasks - design, coding, testing, and documentation using Java/J2EE and WebSphere Portal development.  • Designed and developed some of the Billing Module Screens using HTML, CSS and JSP.  • Integratedwidgets with MVC Framework.  • Designed and implemented the UI using HTML, JSP and Java.  • Designed pages and implemented pagination feature using Display Tag Library.  • Developed ActionForm, Action classes for implementing business logic. Spring MVC3 Framework is used in persistence layer of Billing Module for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database (Oracle).  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Used HQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  • Implemented enhancements from DAO layer to UI layer and portlets based on JSR 168/286 API.  • Used the light weight container of the Spring Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).  • Designed and developed DAL console for monitoring the feeds using SpringMVC 3.0, JSP  • Involved in the development of business module applications using J2EE technologies like JSF(PrimeFaces) and JDBC.  • Consumed Web Services(RESTful) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Used RESTful web services for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Developed the Use case, Sequence and Class diagrams using UML and Rational Rose.  • Design and developed several Web services (SOAP) client using AXIS to send service requests to Web services  • Deployed the application on to WebLogic application server.  • Used log4j for logging messages and Rational Clear Case for version Control.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit and jMock Framework. Used Maven scripts to fetch, build, and deploy application to development environment.    Environment: Java,J2EE,MDB,MQ Series,Spring MVC 3.2.5, iBATIS,HTML5, CSS3, SQL 2005,Maven, Log4j, JUnit,jMock, XML, JSF(PrimeFaces),Servlets, JSTL, AJAX, WebLogic,IBM Rational Rose,RESTful. Sr. Java Developer AT&T - Bothell, WA September 2011 to December 2013 Project:Identity and Access Management.  Description:  American multinational telecommunications corporation headquartered at whiteacre tower in downtown Dallas. This is an enhancement to the already existing project.It is mainly to ensure security and identify the employees of the organization.There are some changes in the database tables.All the data of the employees is stored and brought to the front-end. All the Id cards are generated using this project.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development of e-bill payment system as well as account transfer system and developed specs that include use cases, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and activity diagrams.  • Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom user interfaces.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML, CSS and Java script.  • Used EXT-JS framework for building interactive web applications using techniques such as Ajax, DHTML and DOM scripting.  • Designed powerful JSP Tag libraries for reusable web interface components.  • Used wed services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Developed SOA web services using JSF(PrimeFaces).  • Involved in development of web services for business operations using various Web Services API and tools like SOAP.  • Developed XML schemas - XSD, DTD for validation of XML documents.  • Developed application using Hibernate framework. Developed business domain layer using session and entity beans EJBs.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Developed master JMS producer master, JMS Consumer, and notification manager to implement existing interfaces and hide JMS details from existing (legacy) notification producers and consumers.  • Worked with a variety of issues involving multi-threading, server connectivity and user interface.  • Made extensive use of java Naming and Directory interface (JNDI) for looking up of enterprise beans.  • Developed SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures - database application scripts.  • Involved in Sprint meetings and followed agile software development methodologies.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.    Environment: Java, J2EE,PL/SQL, EJB 2.0, JMS,JNDI, Oracle,XML, DOM, SOAP, Rationale Rose,Eclipse IDE, WebLogic,Hibernate 2.0, MSSQL Server 2008,Agile, PrimeFaces,HTML5,CSS3, Unix (in support environment), JSF. Java Developer Eminence IT Solutions, Indiana TX January 2010 to August 2011 Project:Online Financial Services.  Description:  EFS are a web-based product that integrates with B2C and B2B market places to provide online financial services to marketplace customers. The EFS provides invoice management and online payment services (e.g., ACH, credit cards, wire transfers) using existing Banking systems. It can be either B2C or B2B; marketplaces are the direct customers of the EFS. Financial services via EFS are enabled following a marketplace registration process. Users of the marketplace (e.g., buyers and sellers) are then enrolled with the EFS as users of the registered marketplace. Upon enrollment, financial services are enabled to the users as per the agreement with the associated marketplace.    Responsibilities:  • Identified the Business requirements of the project.  • Involved in preparing System Requirements and preparing the Detailed Design document for the project.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Created RESTful web service to manage debit card accounts (SOAP client to Visa backend)  • Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status. Used Spring DAO Module along with Struts Framework to deal with Database.  • Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. It is also used to separate the application configuration and dependency specification from the actual application code.  • MQ was used to provide a single unifying transport that reduces cost and maintenance efforts, including support for HTTP, REST and JMS.  • Used XML/XSLT for transforming common XML format and SAML for Single Sign-On.  • Designed configuration XML Schema for the application.  • Used JavaScript for the client side validation.  • Used XMLHttpRequests Object to provide asynchronous communication as part of AJAX implementation.  • Worked on Informix database were it uses the RDBMS.  • Extensively used OOD architecture.  • Involved in design and development phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Designed and implemented Java Classes to use JAXP parser to create Java objects so as to be able to modify the data received in the response.  • Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP.  • WSDL was used for publishing Web Service interfaces.  • JUnit tests were written to test each module in the application.  • Developed, and debugged the servlets and EJB with WebSphere Application server.  • Developed the middle tier using EJBs, Java Servlets.  • Developed session, entity beans and message driven beans.  • Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and  • JavaScript, AJAX, JSON.  • Designed the data flow for the client-side screens and the object interaction layer for the server side components using Rational Rose.  • Involved in Use Case Realization, Use Case Diagrams, and Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Wrote Ant Scripts to automate the build and deploy process.  • Involved in Code Review, Unit Testing and Integration Testing.    Environment:  Core Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Java Swing, JSTL, Struts, EJB, JMS, XML, XSLT, JDBC, AJAX, IBM WebSphere Application Server 6.0, DB2, WSAD, IBM MQ, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse, UML, Rational Rose, Windows XP, CVS, JUnit, ANT, Adobe Flex, Visio. Software Developer L Cube Innovative Solutions - IN October 2009 to November 2010 Project: Advance Patient Management.  Description:  The objective of APM (Advanced Patient Management) is to develop a web based system to monitor the patient condition by the physician by using Latitude devices and to eliminate many office visits by a patient. In-home remote follow-up can increase patient satisfaction and improving physician workflow. The combination of device data with meaningful external sensors can provide an effective means to help manage patient health.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of various front-end modules.  • Worked in deadline driven environment.  • Developing Java script modules for client side validations.  • Developed core Java backend tools.  • Developed custom tag libraries for formatting contents in JSPs.  • Developed and deployed EJBs on the server.  • Involved in the production support for the application.  • Developed various server side components using various J2EE technologies.  • Involved in the development of different user interface screens using JavaScript, CSS, and HTML.  • Used the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Developed presentation modules using Struts framework.  • Developed various controller components using Struts framework.  • Extensively used JDBC to access the database objects.  • Extensively involved in coding of various design patterns.    Environment:  Core Java, JDK, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Struts, MVC, EJB, Java Beans, SQL, PL/SQL, Design Patterns, JDBC, JBOSS, Log4J, Apache ANT, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML, DB2, Stored Procedures, Windows 2000/NT/98 OS. Developer Kclink Technologies - IN August 2008 to September 2009 Project: Mobile content delivery project.    Description:  The main aim of this project is to provide consultancy, design, implementation and customization of Content Delivery Server(CDS) at Telecom NZ Mobile. The CDS platform will enable Telecom NZ to offer multiple mobile content related services such as video, pictures, ring tones etc., to their customers in a seamless manner.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing the use cases and prepared design documents.  • Installed and Setup the SUN Content Delivery Server Environment on Solaris machine.  • Involved in Customization of Content Delivery Server such as creating the content developers accounts, managing subscribers and adding content types according to the clients requirements.  • Developed WAP pages using XML, XERCES, Struts, JSP and XSLT to be accessed by all the customers of the NZ telecom using their mobile devices.  • Developed the JUKE BOX web application using JSP, JSTL, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Struts framework and CDS API's so that the customers can shop for mobile content using their web browser..  • Developed Junit classes to test the functionality and Involved in the handset testing of the application on various XHTML and WML browsers using open wave simulator.  • Developed SOAPWebservices using apache axis and used CDS api's to send billing notification events to external billing systems to bill user based on the downloaded content.  • Have written complex SQL queries to perform CRUD operations with the database and developed persistence interface to the database using I-Batis framework.    Environment:  Solaris10, Java 1.4.2, Struts1.2, JavaScript, JSP1.2, Eclipse3.1, SQL, AJAX, XML, DOM, SAX, XSD, JAXB, HTML, XSLT, CSS, Web services, MDB, JMS1.1, SOA MQ Series, EJB2.0, Dreamweaver, Ibatis, LDAP, ANT, Oracle 9i, SOAP, AXIS, WebLogic Application Server 8.1 and CVS. Education Bachelors of Technology in Technology Vellore Institute of Technology - Vellore, Tamil Nadu Skills CSS (9 years), database (9 years), Java (9 years), JSP (9 years), xml (9 years), Java 8, JPA, Python, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Stripes, EJB, JSF, Jquery, Ajax, Javascript, Oracle 11g, Maven, Pl/SQL, JDBC, Solr, Apache POI-HSSF, Jenkins, Cloud logging, Cloud Storage, ActiveMQ, Rest, XCode, Weblogic, Node.js, Bootstrap, Sybase, Backbone.js, Angular.js, WODM 8.1, Acegi Security, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, JBoss, Servlet, Itext,AppScan, VeraCode, WEB 2.0, SOA, PuTTY, winSCP., Hibernate, Spring, J2Ee, Rest, Java J2Ee Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages Java, JavaScript and PL/SQL.  J2EE/e-Business based solution programming  JDK 7,8, RMI, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, Struts, JSF, Tiles, AJAX, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, EJB2.0, EJB3.0, SOA, JPA, JDBC, IIOP, Spring, Acegi Security, Hibernate, Python, Web Services, MVC, XML, Ant, Log4J, XML DOM.    RDBMS and C/S database programming  Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, Oracle 12c, MYSQL, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Connection Pooling/Data Source, Stored procedures, Packages, Triggers, Cursors, Views, Cassandra 2.2, MongoDB.    Application Servers WebLogic 9.1, JBOSS, WebSphere 6.1, Glassfish, Apache Tomcat, Blazix.  Web Tools and Technologies XML, XSLT, CSS, DOJO, JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML, Struts, Java Server Faces, AJAX, XSD, SOAP, JMS, Web Services, JSF, SAX, Groovy.  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, Apache Axis 1.1, JAXP, AWS, Apache SOLR/Lucene.  ORM Technologies Hibernate 3.x, MyBatis.  Software Development IDEs JBuilder 6.0, Eclipse, NetBeans.  Tools/IDE  Eclipse and plugins CVS, Clear case, MS Visio, Junit, Axis 2.0, Optimize It, Rational ClearCase, Rational Rose, Apache Maven, PrimeFaces, GIT.    Operating Systems Exposure Windows 95/NT/2000, XP,7,8,10, iOS, Unix, Linux.  Open Source Frameworks and Libraries Apache Ant, Log4j, Stripes, OSCache.  Bug Tracking Tools FMAS, Bug Host, Bugzilla, Selenium  Testing Tools Junit, TestNG, Mockito, Powermock, Grinder