Applications Programmer V Applications Programmer V Applications Programmer V - Bank of America Jacksonville, FL • Strong database server-side development experience utilizing SQL Server and Oracle.  • 11+ years of hands on experience developing applications utilizing C#, VB.NET, VB6, and VBA.  • Hands on experience translating business requirements into creation of database objects:  Tables, Indexes, Constraints, Triggers, Stored Procedures, Packages, Views etc.  • Extensive experience in business analysis, design, development, testing and implementation  of Client/Server Applications.  • Solid experience with SQL Plus, Oracle TOAD, Query Analyzer, Enterprise Manager, and  SQL Developer.  • Solid experience with various Oracle versions (8i, 9i, 10g, 11g, and above).  • Strong experience using Oracle DBLinks, Synonyms and Materialized views.  • Strong skills in developing and maintaining systems necessary for trading in capital market  instruments such as stocks, bonds, foreign exchange, treasury bills and debentures.  • Experience with Bloomberg's Multi-Asset Risk Management System (MARS).  • Extensive knowledge and experience with accounting (cost, financial, managerial,  governmental, oil and gas, and taxes).  • Solid experience developing COM.  • Very solid experience with GUI design and using third-party ActiveX controls such as those  from Infragistics, Sheridan, FarPoint, etc.  • Extensive Experience in API design and implementation.  • Strong experience with migrating vb6 applications to C#.  • Extensive experience utilizing reporting tools such as Crystal Reports, Active Reports, and  Ultipro  • Skills in manufacturing environment using ActivPlant and FactoryTalk.  • Extensive experience developing HL7 messaging systems which include segments  ADT, ORU, ORM, SIU, MDM for secure transmission and receipt of patient health data in  health care facilities.  • Knowledge of HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) as it relates to secure  electronic transmission of patient health data and also administrative and financial transactions  by health care providers.  • Knowledge of the various HL7 acknowledgement types and common industry practices  when working with HL7 acknowledgement.  • Excellent IT experience in the finance, banking, mortgage, medical, manufacturing, oil and  gas industries. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Applications Programmer V Bank of America - Jacksonville, FL August 2017 to Present Maintaining and adding new functionalities to a group of applications which constitute the Magellan application used for consumer vehicle lending.    Programming languages used for developing and maintaining Magellan include:  C#, C++, Java, and VB6.    Functionalities included in the C# applications listed below are called and consumed by Magellan:  Infrastructure_Lapu, Infrastructure_Lapu_Core, DataAccessEF, Lapu_Master, and Magellan Service.    Functionalities included in the C++ applications listed below are also used by Magellan:  COM, eFormer, Adverse Batches, ACHExtract and Gateway.    CreditPlus which is a VB6 application is the portion of Magellan that presents user interface.    Environment includes Agile, Visual Studio 2017, C#, C++, VB6, MVC, TFS, WPF, EF, Oracle, Autosys, and TOAD for Oracle. Software Developer Principle Solutions Group - Saint Petersburg, FL March 2016 to August 2017 Migrated the following financial applications from VB6 to C# .NET:  a) Positions Reconciliation (PosRecon)  b) Inventory Positions Reconciliation (InvPosRecon)  c) Bond Missing Trade Notifications Report (BDMissingTradeNotificationsReport)    The above applications support daily trading in equities (stocks, bonds, and other financial capital investments).    Maintained and added functionalities to systems used by equity traders.    Environment: Agile, Visual Studio 2015, C#, HTML5, MVC, TFS, WPF, WCF, EF, SQL Server. Senior Software Developer Excel Global Solutions - Boston, MA July 2015 to March 2016 Developed NHPRI ADA Survey application.  Developed NHPRI Provider Attestation application.  Both are .NET multi-project web applications with each comprising of two C# projects:  Tasks in Windows Task Scheduler trigger them at set date/time interval to execute.  They are standalone solutions that do not display user interface and require no human interaction to process and deliver expected output files and business needs.  These applications create xml files from survey records contained in excel files.  The output files are primarily used by the Neighborhood Health Plan of Rhode Island (NHPRI).    Environment: Agile, Visual Studio 2010, C#, HTML5, CSS, TFS, SQL Server and Oracle TOAD.    Maintained and added enhancements to the EDIImporter and FCImport applications.  Both are Visual Basic 6.0 applications that handle importing and processing of insurance claims for providers like Humana, Emdeon, Unicare etc.    Environment: Agile, VB6, VSS, SQL Server and Oracle TOAD. VBA Macro Developer Fidelity Investments - Raleigh, NC July 2014 to July 2015 Maintained and added enhancements to the following financial applications:  a) Wealth Planning Questionnaire, b) Goal Profile Questionnaire,  c) Goal Level Performance, d) Investment Suitability (Product FIT),  e) Executive Services Report Generator.    Maintained and added functionalities to systems necessary for trading in capital market instruments such as stocks, bonds, foreign exchange, treasury bills and debentures.    Environment: Web API, Web Services (AWS), Bloomberg's Multi-Asset Risk System (MARS), SOAP, WCF, Agile, EDMS, VB6, VBA, C#, JSON, XML, HTML5, CSS, .NET 4.5, SQL Developer, and Oracle TOAD. Software Developer Shell Exploration and Production Company - Houston, TX November 2013 to July 2014 Maintaining and adding new functionalities to the Cost Tracking Tool (CTT) Administration application.  This is a Microsoft Access application (referred to as EPW-CTT Daily Load) and used primarily by the Cost Estimating Team. Its major function is bulk movement of data from Access databases to databases residing in SQL and/or Oracle servers. Major uses of the application include:  a) Utilizes the SQL*Loader utility and some coded methods for bulk data movements into Oracle and/or SQL database tables.  b) Populates CAPEX support data.  c) Populates data for PAD-Pattern and PlanLoad.  d) Moves data from .csv files into Access database tables.    Environment: Oracle 11g, SQL Server, Microsoft Access, Microsoft Excel, Stored Procedures, Landmark EDM, OpenWells, VB6, VBA, XML, RIWCE for probabilistic simulations.    Maintaining Wells Cost Tracking Tool which is an ASP.NET application which is used by Cost planners, and Drilling Engineers.  Gathering user requirements and adding new functionalities to Wells Cost Tracking Tool.    Experience at Shell Exploration and Production Company (Upstream Americas:    The Wells CTT is a web application built with following technologies:  Microsoft .NET Framework v4.5, ASP.NET with Ajax extensions, C#, WCF, Oracle 11g, Aspose.Cells , and TIBCO Spotfire    Environment: Oracle 11g, Oracle ODP.Net, Stored Procedures and Packages, Landmark EDM, ASP.NET, C#, HTML, XML, Ajax, Aspose.cells, ADO.NET, COM, Visual Source Safe, TFS, Agile, Citrix, TCP/IP, Web Services, MVC (Model View Controller), CSS, VB6, VBA, RIWCE for probabilistic simulations.    Developed Shell wells cost estimating tool referred to as CET. This is a Web application built using Visual Studio 2012 and C# programming language. It is used by Shell oil well drilling engineers, Finance and Logistics team to create cost estimates for all segments of any on-shore or off-shore well. Software Developer Freddie Mac - McLean, VA January 2012 to November 2013 Maintained and added new functionalities to the following multifamily loan and mortgage servicing applications:  • MPS Cash Management System (CMS) which has subsystems Cash, Journal, Wire, and 104S.  • MPS Multifamily Asset Management Operating System (MFAMOS).  • MPS Multi-Suite Investment Reporting (MSIR).  • MPS Accounting Changes.  • MPS Underwriting.  • MPS Purchase Changes.  • MPS Ledger Interface.  • MPS Fee Tracking Changes.  • MPS GLIMRS.  Worked with systems that handled Autosys jobs which monitored daily periodic wire transfers to the treasury department.    Daily activities included translating functional specifications into technical design and efficient code, developing documentation for design, testing and deployment. Participation in design meetings code and peer review sessions.    Environment: VB6, Rapid SQL, IBM Clear Case, IBM Clear Quest, Sybase, SQL Server, Oracle, Visual Basic, Perl, Autosys, ADO, COM, Citrix. Software Engineer Digisonics Inc - Houston, TX April 2011 to January 2012 Developing and maintaining Visual Basic applications.  • Developed an HL7 engine consisting of a set of applications (HL7 Manager and DigiHL7) from scratch including both the back-end processing and GUI end-user interface. This HL7 engine has been tested and validated by the US Veterans Administration and currently in use at several major health care facilities. It handles many HL7 message types including ADT, ORM, ORU, MDM, SIU etc.  • Developed DV Player and Remote Player applications that play patient study images.  • Developed securekey.dll used for applications licensing.  • Maintained and added functionalities to Rolodex application which handles fax transmissions, emailing and print jobs. Added functionality to Rolodex to interface with both MS Fax and RightFax APIs.  • Developed application named Gateway Monitor which monitors CPU usage of applications and processes that run unattended. It has functionality to shut down and restart applications and processes based on user-configured settings regarding CPU usage.  • Migrated VB6 applications to VB.NET.    Other duties include:  Test planning and execution, support for user-testing and implementation, application enhancements based on user-requests, documentation and drawing out proposals for new functionality enhancements, gathering requirements from customers, resolving issues, updating knowledge-base with issues and resolutions, and working with other programmers in a team environment to develop systems for business processes, monitoring and maintaining  database objects, installing and trouble-shooting software and constantly interacting with clients and Customer Care Department in enhancing software as well as resolving application related issues.    Environment: Health Information System HIS, HL7 messaging, 7Edit message validation tool. SQL Server, Access, VB6, Visual Studio, VB.NET, ADO, ADO.NET, COM, Crystal Reports, Visual Source Safe, Citrix, TCP/IP, 7Edit-HL7 viewer/browser/simulator/validator. Software Developer Universal Weather and Aviation - Houston, TX September 2010 to April 2011 Developed and maintained Visual Basic applications.  • Maintained and customized FBO Manager Visual Basic application which handled POS transactions (mostly Fuel transactions) for the Aviation industry.  • Created and maintained data link libraries upon which FBO Manager relied for proprietary and Bank Card processing.  • Maintained and customized PRIZM which is a Visual Basic application used to run all ConocoPhillips branded FBO locations.  • Maintained and customized Concierge Monitor application used for catering, hotel reservations, car rentals, flight reservations etc.  • Maintained and customized VeederRoot application for aircraft fueling and defueling.  • Maintained and customized FuelMaster application for fuel inventory management.  • Maintained and customized CC_Settle and Settle66 applications for daily or periodic settlement of credit card transactions between Banks and FBO locations.    Additional duties: Offering 24/7 customer support services via phone and email.    Environment: SQL Server 2000, Oracle 9i, MS Access, IBM AS400 (now known as DB2), VB6, Visual Studio 2003, VB.NET, ADO, ADO.NET, COM, Remedy, Test Directory, Manvel, COGNOS, Crystal Reports XI, Data Dynamics Active Reports, and Visual Source Safe. VB6 Developer /Ultipro Administrator Noble Drilling Corporation February 2009 to September 2010 Sugarland Texas    • Customized, maintained and added new functionalities to Hour Pay application which was designed to handle payroll processing for employees on offshore rigs located both in USA and Overseas. It made extensive use of SQL triggers and stored procedures as well as batch processing and transfer of financial data to COGNOS applications.    • Responsible for maintaining NICS application which was designed to handle all aspects of inventory control for tools and heavy equipments used on offshore oil rigs. This application applied various accounting rules and standards for inventory valuation and depreciation. It relied on SQL Server 2000 and Access 2003 as backend.    • Developed Merge Excess application which handled transfer of surplus inventory from one oil rig platform to another. This application was developed using VB.NET, SQL 2000, Access 2003, Crystal reports, ADO.NET, and WinForms.    • Created corporate reports using Cognos Impromptu, Ultipro P1, US Explore P1 and US Admin. (These are reporting, human resources, and payroll management tools from Ultimate Software Corporation).    Other responsibilities included creating Crystal Reports for the Human Resources and Payroll departments. Senior Systems Analyst/ Developer Suntron Corporation Sugarland, Texas May 2008 to February 2009 • Developed custom reports and functions using ActivPlant Insight for Microsoft Excel.  • Redesigned and migrated existing Access and old-versioned VB applications to VB6.  • Effectively supported production engineers by developing and maintaining major Visual Basic applications.  • Developed QC2000 application (used for quality control on electronic components including circuit boards).  • Developed QC2000Viewer application (used to document and report results of quality tests).  • Developed Print DMR (which was a VB6 application that integrates Crystal Reports and/or Data Dynamics Active Reporting tools to deliver quality management reports via print).  • Developed LH2000 which was a VB6 application that was useful in every manufacturing aspect of circuit boards, cables, harnesses, chips, and various electronic components.  • Worked as Team Lead during development and deployment of RMA Tracker (a corporate-wide application that handled all aspects of RMA functions for every client regardless of size or unique needs).  • Analyzed with the Business Administrators, Engineers and Customer Service Agents collectively while gathering user-requirements, creating work-flow documents and middle tier components which enclosed the individual components of Data Access.  • Created sequence of mathematical algorithms completely encapsulated in VB objects for production Turn-Around-Time (TAT) calculation and reporting.  • Created sequence of objects such as Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, and Triggers.  • Developed and deployed ToolMaster application (used by production engineers to handle tool disbursement and schedule tool calibration).  • Developed and deployed Applied Lean Pull (a console VB6 application which ran constantly unattended handling data transfer between Suntron Corporation and its major customers such as Applied Materials Corporation).  • Developed and deployed Emulex Data Console (another console VB6 application) that handled data transfer and CSA communication between Suntron and Emulex Corporation.    Environment: SQL Server, IBM AS400 (now known as DB2), Oracle. Access, VB6, COM, ADO, RDO, DAO, Oracle 9i, Oracle Discoverer, ASP, PeopleSoft, Crystal Reports, Data Dynamics Active Reports, SQL Query Analyzer, SQL Enterprise Manager, SQL Navigator, and Visual Source Safe. VB6 Developer Flexxperts Limited Partnership - Natick, MA November 2007 to May 2008 • Worked in a team environment and involved in the design and development of Deal Builder and Deal Manager Applications which is a set of an integrated equipment lease/loan portfolio management and accounting system designed for use within the leasing industry.  • Assisted a group of professionals to efficiently and effectively move proposals from inquiry to being accepted, and becoming active leases/loans.  • Involved in the development of upgrades to Deal Builder, Deal Manager, and Deal Analyzer applications.  • Worked with Business Analysts in development of modules, functions and stored procedures for Lease/Loan Maintenance, Billing/Invoicing, Accounts Receivable Processing, Collections Management, Debt Management, Accounts Payable Processing, Revisions and Terminations, Sales/Use Tax Processing, Fixed Assets, Equipment Sales, Securitization Processing, General Ledger and Archiving for the Deal Manager application.  • Developed data link libraries used by Deal Manager which resulted in effective computerized and streamlined lease system and thus resulted in more effective control and analysis.  • Designed and developed stored procedures under ORACLE to handle the sequence of business transactions like Cash posting, Billing/Accounts receivable.    Deal Builder and Deal Manager were designed using n-tier architecture with the usage of sequence of DLLs written in Visual Basic and ActiveX controls and display the presentation screens using HTML viewer controls.    Environment: VB6, ADO, XML, HTML Viewers, COM/DCOM, VS Flex Grid, Win Forms and Oracle 7, JAVASCRIPT, VB SCRIPT. Education Bachelor's Skills Programming, Cobol, PLC, RPG, NET Certifications/Licenses Driver's License