Technical Support Engineer Technical Support Engineer Technical Support Engineer - Electronics for Imaging Gilbert, AZ Software programmer with 6+ years of experience in developing, testing, and debugging cutting-edge industry software. Solid mathematical background with experience developing algorithms and data-processing logic. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Support Engineer Electronics for Imaging - Tempe, AZ May 2017 to Present Contributed in the development of EFI-CRC's CRM software.  Developed websites, WPF, VB applications, and windows services for clients from design spec to release.   ? Demonstrated excellent troubleshooting and debugging skills.  ? Frequently met with developers, clients and software trainers to determine optimal specifications.  ? Reviewed code and assessed system for bugs and malfunctions.  ? Upgraded codes to meet the customer's custom business requirements.  ? Created, updated, and maintained SQL scripts for tables, views, stored procedures, functions, and queries. Software Developer CRC Information Systems, Inc - Scottsdale, AZ October 2014 to April 2017 Contributed in the development of CRC's award winning Business Management software NUCLEUS for the Graphic Arts Industries through the software lifecycle, from requirements through successful deployment. Software Developer Intern Mind Chemistry Inc - Phoenix, AZ July 2013 to September 2014 Developed Web Forms using C# and ASP.NET  ? Designed and Built Data Layer for Account and Virtual Folder Hierarchy. Designed the schema and services related to account and virtual folder hierarchy framework for the server. Wrote scripts to create the tables located in the Account and Virtual Folder document on the team foundation server site.  ? Built a WPF application using Actipro WPF Wizard. Lecturer Jahangirnagar University 1997 to 1999 Taught basic electronics courses Engineer Bangladesh Export Import Company - Dhaka, BD 1995 to 1997 Installed and tested for operation MITEL PABX System. Education Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ 2006 to 2007 M.S. in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Colorado State University - Fort Collins, CO 2003 B.S. in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology - Dhaka, BD 1995 Skills SQL (5 years), C# (5 years), WPF (5 years), ASP (2 years), ASP.NET (2 years), Tech Support (Less than 1 year), Javascript Additional Information SKILLS  • Fluent in VB6, C# 5.0, T-SQL, and C/C++ programming  • WPF MVVM, ASP.NET MVC, CSS-BOOTSTRAP, JAVASCRIPT-JQUERY, XAML, Crystal Reports 2008, Razor, HTML 5.0, XML, ADO.NET, LINQ, AJAX  • Assembly language programming in Motorola 68K & ARM  • Knowledge of computer networking field, IP addressing.    TECHNICAL TOOLS  Visual Studio 2017, Visual Basic 6.0, SQL Server 2014 Management Studio, TFS, UNIX, Windows OS, MS Office.