Senior SQL/MSBI Developer Senior SQL/MSBI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior SQL/MSBI Developer - Sudler & Hennessey Chicago, IL • Having 11+ years of IT experience in database design, administration, development and support of Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008/12/14/16 in Production, Test and Development environments in various business domains like Financial, Investment Banking and Pharma/Healthcare domains.  • Extensive experience in Microsoft Business Intelligence technologies: MS SQL Server Integration Services(SSIS), MS SQL Server Reporting Services(SSRS), and MS SQL Server Analysis Services(SSAS).  • Experience in SQL Server Optimization by using SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard, Database Tuning Advisor, DBCC Commands and Query Execution Plans.  • Expertise in writing T-SQL Queries, Dynamic-queries, sub-queries and complex joins for generating Complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, User-defined Functions, Views and Cursors.  • Performed SQL DBA tasks like database logical and physical design, maintenance, tuning, archiving, backups and optimization for SQL Server database.  • Responsible for the development of SSIS packages to automate Intra Day, EOD jobs and expertise in enhancing, debugging and deploying of SSIS Packages from development to production server using SSIS catalog.  • Proficient knowledge of Data Warehousing methodologies and concepts, including star schemas, snowflakes schemas, dimensional modeling ,maintenance and optimization of OLAP cubes and data sets in SSAS.  • Good experience in developing the table and matrix reports using SSRS and scheduling reports weekly and monthly basis as per the client requirement.  • Expertise in designing and developing applications using ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Enterprise Library, C#.NET, SQL SERVER 2008/2012, Web services, SOAP, HTML 4/5, XML, CSS,Java Script, Web Forms.  • Working knowledge of UNIX,Autosys and Shell scripting. Work Experience Senior SQL/MSBI Developer Sudler & Hennessey - Chicago, IL March 2018 to Present The Electronic Meeting Management Application (eMMa) is web-based Speaker Bureau Management System which provides a central database of information for the companies and their sales force to schedule meetings for, and receive reports about, their contracted speakers. It was designed for the companies, which provides the user with the ability to track details of promotional speaker programs.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for stored procedures optimization, performance tuning and index tuning.  • Created Transact-SQL (stored procedures, views, triggers, sub-queries, joins) and scheduled Jobs and Alerting using SQL Server Agent.  • Designed SSIS packages, enhanced existing packages by using Pivot Transformation, Lookup, Derived columns, Conditional Split, Aggregate, Execute SQL and Dataflow Task etc. to extract data from different heterogeneous sources.  • Implemented Custom scripting in SSIS packages using C#.Net.  • Created generic FTP and Email packages as the custom packages for reusability and optimization of packages and implemented SFTP packages using COZYROCK controls.  • Worked with DBAs to schedule SSIS packages as jobs either daily, monthly, yearly or ad-hoc.  • Extensively used Joins and sub-Queries to simplify complex queries involving multiple tables and also optimized the procedures and triggers to be used in production.  • Implemented custom logging, auditing and custom email notifications using SSIS 2012, performing Unit Testing the SSIS packages with respect to its flow and performance issues and using C# .net code.  Technologies: MS SQL Server 2014/2016, SSIS 2012, Reporting Services 2012 OLTP, T-SQL, MS Excel, C#.NET, SQL profiler, SQL configuration Tools. MSSQL/MSBI Developer German Bank - New York, NY July 2016 to February 2018 LBBW Soft is an application which deals with Accounting, Loans, Risk Management, HR etc modules of the clients. This application targeted to MS Access 2003 which is migrated to .Net framework, WPF, Prism technologies. The Database objects which are running in MS Access 2003 are migrated to SQL server 2008 to which the new .Net application targeting.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the database migration of the legacy LBBW Soft application developed in MS Access 2003, SQL Server 2008 R2 to .NET 4.5, Prism and SQL Server 2014.  • Developed T-SQL query, stored procedures and functions to retrieve data for reporting.  • Loaded flat files (4GB) data into database using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) after applying various transformations like Lookup, Merge, Join, Aggregation, Derived column, Data Conversion, Script Task etc.  • Rebuilding Indexes and Tables as part of Performance Tuning Exercise.  • Created Audit tables, loggings, Error handling to maintain data quality while loading into data warehouse using SSIS 2008/2012.  • Ftp'ing the Head Office files from the remote location and load the data in the database Using FTP task in SSIS.  • Design/develop complex queries efficiently as per the given business requirements.  • Developed Reports in the form of Matrix, Table and Chart using MS SQL Server Reporting Services 2012 (SSRS).  • Analyzed various business requirements to provide estimates for all SDLC phases (Analysis, Design, Coding, Implementation, SIT, UAT, and Production Move).  Technologies: MS SQL Server 2008R2/2012/2014, SSIS 2008/2012, Reporting Services 2012 OLTP, T-SQL, MS Excel, C#.NET, SQL profiler, SQL Server Configuration Tools. SQL Server Developer Goldman Sachs - Salt Lake City, UT September 2013 to June 2016 PWM (Private wealth management) is a unit in Goldman Sachs which deals with managing the wealth of the clients and the investments related to it. The scope of the project is to support and develop database objects of different applications like Payment processing, Client Reporting, Billing, Loans etc.    Responsibilities:  • Lead the team of developers and assisted them in the analysis and debugging of application issues quickly and effectively. This includes the development of new applications or modifications to existing applications.  • Set-up SQL jobs to load the data daily into Datawarehouse objects related to multiple modules.  • Enhanced the performance of Data warehouse using Execution Plan and SQL Profiler to optimize queries.  • Created SSIS packages, including lookups, derived columns, data conversions, aggregations, conditional splits, SQL tasks, script tasks, send mail tasks and FTP tasks for file transfer.  • Worked on creating different Reports like Drill through Dashboard Reports, Drill down Report, Matrix Reports, Sub Reports, Ad hoc Reports, Tabular Reports, and Chart Reports.  • Created database tables, views, stored procedures, functions and triggers as required.  • Used SQL Profiler for Performance monitor to resolve dead locks and long running queries by checking appropriate changes to Transaction Isolation levels.  Technologies: MS SQL Server 2008, MS BIDS, T-SQL, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SSAS 2008R2, MS Excel, .NET framework 4.0, Windows XP/2003. Software Developer UBS - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to August 2013 UBS AG is a Swiss global financial services company headquartered in Basel and Zurich, Switzerland, which provides investment banking, asset management, and wealth management services for private, corporate, and institutional clients worldwide, as well as retail clients in Switzerland. The scope of the project is to production support of the EOD batch involved of multiple applications.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for managing batch processing including setting up Autosys scheduler and maintaining/enhancing existing batch applications using shell scripts, Perl scripts in UNIX.  • Responsible for incident management from job monitoring to root-cause analysis to issues resolution. Coordinated with the responsible parties identifying issues, logging and tracking issues, conducting team meetings for implementing fixes and communicating status to all tactical teams and management.  • Performed proactive sanity EOD checks for production environment to ensure availability of various systems and data within the agreed service level agreement.  • Responsible for L1/L2 support of EOD batch cycle such as monitoring batch jobs, providing on-call support, analyzing job failures, fixing bugs/job failures, and performing batch tuning.  Technologies: SQL Server 2008, Autosys, JIRA and UNIX NET Developer SAGIA - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2009 to April 2011 SAGIA SMART Service Center (SSC) offers Investors, Residents and Non-residents in the Economic Cities within Saudi Arabia a single-window access to Government services, Business services, Municipality services, Residents services and Non-residents services. Saudi Arabian General Investment Authority (SAGIA) is responsible for licensing investments within the Economic Cities of Saudi Arabia and, accordingly, provides comprehensive licensing and support services to investors, residents and non-residents in the Economic Cities through its SMART Service Center (SSC) operations.  Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented Web Forms using ASP.NET and coded the Business logic in C#.  • Developed WCF services to be used by ASP.NET applications.  • Used JavaScript and .NET Validation Controls for performing client-side validations.  • Configured security features for the application using Form Based Authentication and Role Based Authorization using C# and ASP.NET.  • Developed the Web Application in ASP.Net 3.5 using Master Page, Themes & skins to maintain the consistent look and feel throughout the application.  • Designed and Developed Web Services to synchronize data from remote application database to online Database.  Technologies: .NET Framework 3.5, ASP.NET 3.5, IIS 7.0, ADO.Net, C#, HTML, WCF, Visual Studio 2008, Oracle. NET Developer Master Dialer - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2008 to November 2009 This Product is used for call center Dialer. We can get the data from the server and sending the details to the server. There are mainly three stages. In the first stage, we are getting the inbound calls from customer. So we know who are in line other end and other details. In the second stage, the agent will make a call to customer using Dialer dial pad. This dial pad dialed number will be send to server, the server dials the Phone number then agent gets the call.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and development of Inbound and Outbound modules.  • Developed and consumed Web Services to extract information from the database and other services.  • Used various advanced Server Controls and developed Custom Controls.  • Implemented Forms based authentication and maintained Session State information throughout the web transaction.  • Implemented Client and Server side validations using JavaScript and ASP.Net validation controls.  • Provided database connectivity using ADO.Net and created procedures, Indexes and Triggers using MS SQL Server 2005.  • Used T-SQL to examine the database information.  Technologies: .NET Framework 3.0, Visual Studio 2005, ASP.Net, C#, Web services, ADO.Net, XML, HTML, JavaScript, SQL Server 2005, T-SQL, CSS, IIS, Visual Source Safe. Education Bachelor's Skills .net. (9 years), Ms .net (7 years), Ms sql server (9 years), Sql (9 years), Sql server (9 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Databases: SQL Server 2008R2/2012/2014/2016, MS-Access, Oracle 8i  .Net Technologies: .Net Framework 2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, C#, WCF, LINQ  Web: ASP.NET, HTML, AJAX, Web-Services, Web API  Scripting: XML, CSS, Java Script, VBScript, jQuery, Shell scripting  Tools: SSIS, MS Reporting Services 2008/2012, Crystal Reports, Autosys  Versioning Tools: Visual Source Safe (VSS), Team Foundation Server (TFS), GitHub