Associate Software Engineer Associate <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Associate Software Engineer - Thomson Reuters Cincinnati, OH • 10 years of experience in software development includes Analysis, Design, Development and quality testing of software for Standalone applications and Web-based applications using JAVA, J2EE and J2SE technologies.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Java 8, Spring core.  • Using Spring Boot framework, Spring security, Hibernate, Java 8 and UI Build API.  • Solid experiences in implementing modern Java based Web Content Management System i.e. Experience with dot CMS.  • Expertise in Integrating various web applications with Single Sign On (SSO).  • Hands on experience with configuring IDP initiated and SP initiated SAML profiles with different bindings like POST, Artifact, and Redirect as per the custom business and security requirements.  • Track record of increasing responsibility in the business software design, Microservices, systems analysis/development and full lifecycle project management.  • Experience in using web technologies like Web Services, WSDL, UDDI, Perl, Weblogic Portal, XML, XSD, CSS, XSLT, XQuery, JavaScript, Angular 2, PHP, HTML, XHTML and AJAX.  • Hands-on experience in development of Microservices and deploying in Docker.  • Experience in developing the Applications in OSGI framework and Spring Framework.  • Expertise in Java concepts like OOP, JDBC, JMS, Multi-Threading, JUnit and advanced Java concepts like JSP, Servlets, Struts, HTML, XML, Hibernate, AJAX, Java Beans and SPRING.  • Well experienced on Java Web Services development using SOAP, REST, and WSDL & UDDI.  • Working with RedHat Linux team for resolving the OS level issues  • Experience in developing Web based GUI's using JSP, JQUERY, HTML 4/5, DHTML, CSS 2/3, and JavaScript, Angular 2, React JS.  • Strong experience on software development methodologies like Waterfall, TDD, Agile development and Rapid Application Development.  • Experience in implementing web based projects using Web/Application Servers such as Apache Tomcat 6.0.18/7.0.42 and JBoss Application Server 4.2  • Good working knowledge on databases such as Oracle and MySQL, MongoDB  • Hands on experience in working with PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit, integration and deployment of applications done using tools such as Maven.  • Used log4J for enabling runtime logging. Performed System Integration test to ensure quality of the system.  • Good experience in working on Windows, UNIX, Linux operating systems.  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ.  • Excellent Interpersonal and Communication skills coupled with strong technical and problem solving capabilities with a can-do attitude.  • Exceptional ability to quickly master new concepts and a proactive team player with good analytical and ability to perform at a high level, meet deadlines, adaptable to ever changing priorities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Software Engineer Thomson Reuters - Lake Oswego, OR June 2018 to Present Roles & responsibilities  • Involved in EMI (Repayments), Cheque Bounce, Deposits module in all activities  • Involved in coding for JSP pages, Form Beans and Action Classes in Struts.  • Created Custom Tag Libraries to support the Struts framework.  • Involved in Writing Validations.  • Involved in Database Connectivity through JDBC.  • Involved in Writing DAO's.  • Developed JUnit Test cases and performed application testing for QC team.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Developed Core Java components to develop the transaction report.  • Configured data source XML in JBOSS Application Server to deploy the application.  • Contributed to the Continuous Integration (CI) pipeline running component builds, creating and running Deployment jobs on individual stages on Jenkins, and running automated functional tests.  • Configured connection pools and establish a connection with Ms Access.  • Participated in weekly project meetings, updates and Provided Estimates for the assigned Task.  • Responsible for deploying the application on Apache Tomcat.  • Implemented the project using IDE Eclipse.  • Used Rational Rose suite for designing the System.  • Used SVN configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problem.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Struts, JSP, JDBC, JBoss 5.1, ANT, XML, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Jenkins, JUNIT, Ms Access, Rational Rose, SVN, SOAP, log4j. Java Developer Kroger - Cincinnati, OH May 2016 to June 2018 Roles & responsibilities:  • Participating in the system study to understand the functionality of the current system.  • Developing the Application in the OSGI framework.  • Responsible in implementation of the presentation layer for the application using Html5, CSS3, Javascript, Angular2.  • Designed and developed the REST based Micro services using the Spring Boot.  • Expertise in designing and developing full stack web based applications using JavaScript and modern frameworks like React JS, Node JS and AngularJS along with RESTful Web Services.  • Continuous developments using the Java 8 latest features like streams and filter techniques.  • Improved data analysis efficiency by adding 30 new features using Java 8 (Spring).  • Used Apigee as a API gateway for APIs transformation, multiple authentication mechanisms.  • Weblogic Portal was used to develop an online portal for the project.  • Created RFP Microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Micro services.  • Participating in impact analysis for the requirements.  • In charge of maintaining multiple RedHat Enterprise Linux servers.  • Designing and developing Restful API and services using best practices to interact within the microservices and with the front end. Using spring MVC and spring rest.  • Participate in the refinement meetings to create and analyze the stories for the Sprint  • Works heavily on SAML 2.0 and dotCMS for developing the application.  • Effective tracking of the code is done by using Log4j, Log 4j2  • Provides support during Quality Assurance and User Acceptance testing phases.  • Provides support to the Clients in resolving the production tickets.    Environment: JAVA 8, J2EE, Spring Core, Spring MVC, Microservices, Angular 2, React JS, Weblogic Server, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, SOAP Web services/RESTful, Log4j, SVN, SAML 2.0, IDP, SP. Fullstack Java Developer OPTUM (UHG) - Minnetonka, MN April 2014 to May 2016 Roles & Responsibilities  • Participated in the system study to understand the functionality of the current system.  • Developed the Application in the OSGI framework.  • Involved in design and development of UI component, which includes layered POVs and Carousels using frameworks Angular 2, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Designed UML activity diagrams, sequence diagrams and story boards during the requirements gathering phase, using Rational Software Modeler.  • Responsible for the configurations of data sources and connection pools in WebLogic Server.  • Experienced in implementing Microservices, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) using Top Down and Bottom Up approach.  • Developed Single Page application using React JS for better rendering performance.  • Participated in impact analysis for the requirements.  • Designed business application using web technologies like HTML 4.0/5.0, CSS2/CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Worked heavily on HTML5 and CSS3 for developing pages.  • Developed securing the application using form-based authentication using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS.  • API documentation using UML & PlantUML.  • Developed the API's using AJAX and JSON to implement more robust and efficient client facing applications.  • Consumed various services like getting the real time exchange rate using SOAP Web Services.  • Provided services like importing jobs using SOAP Web Services.  • Used Log4j, Log4j2 for Logging.  • Provided support during Quality Assurance and User Acceptance testing phases.  • Provided support to the Clients in resolving the production tickets.    Environment: Java, J2ee, Spring Core, Weblogic, Redhat linux, Spring MVC, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, Angular Js, React JS, AJAX, SOAP Web services/RESTful, Log4j, SVN. Java/J2EE Developer Monsanto - St. Louis, MO March 2012 to April 2014 Roles & Responsibilities  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of project including Requirement Analysis, Designing, Build/Construction, Unit/Assembly Testing and Deployment.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  • Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using SOAP, WSDL and UDDI.  • Experience in working with API Gateways.  • Developed presentation tier using JSP, JQuery, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  • Generated POJO classes to map to the tables in the database using the JPA-Hibernate integration.  • Used Spring framework for implementing Dependency Injection, AOP, Spring ORM  • Configured the web.xml & persistence.xml for the project  • Responsible for implementing the transaction management in the application by applying Spring AOP methodology.  • Used EJBs (Stateless Session Beans) to implement the business logic, MDBs (JMS) for asynchronous communication internal and external to the system.  • Created UNIX shell scripts for CRON jobs and other production support activities like archiving the logs etc.  • Responsible for writing SQL queries and stored procedures for data manipulation.  • Involved in post-production support.  • Used JUnit for unit testing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JPA, JSON, Oracle, Jboss, Ant, CSS, HTML5, Oracle10g, Eclipse, JSP, Ext JS, JQuery, AJAX, Apache Camel, Apache Axis, SOAP web services, UNIX Shell scripting. Java Developer Magellan Health - St. Louis, MO February 2010 to March 2012 Roles & Responsibilities  • Responsible for creating technical requirements for designing and developing various Java Components.  • Responsible for developing core modules of the Application based on core JAVA, in Struts Framework, and built the Multi-threaded environment.  • Developed Tiles for Layout management.  • Responsible for creating User Interfaces using JSP's, JSTL, HTML.  • Built easy to use interface for better experience using JavaScript, JQuery, HTML and CSS.  • Developed and implemented database layer using iBatis.  • Wrote SQL/PL-SQL Stored Procedures & queries to create, Modify, update data into the DB2 Database.  • Used Apache POI incorporate the Microsoft Documents.  • Used Log4J to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  • Used OWC i.e. Office Web Components, and JFreeCharts.  • Used Putty for Code deployment & Checking log files on production environments.  • Involved in Performance monitoring of the Application.  • Deployed the application on to Apache Tomcat 5.5 and tested the same.  • Investigation and root cause analysis of software and system defects.  • Experienced all phases of SDLC that involved identifying project requirements, technical estimations, development, testing, release and support.    Environment: Core JAVA, Struts Framework 1.2, iBatis, JSP 2.1, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax , Tiles, Apache Tomcat 5.5, DB2, Apache POI, OWC, XPATH, XML, XSL-FO, XSLT, SAX , Eclipse 3.4.1, VSS, Windows XP, Microsoft Visio. Java 1.5, Linux. Software Engineer Northrop Grumman January 2009 to February 2010 Roles & Responsibilities  • Responsible for creating technical requirements for designing and developing various Java Components.  • Responsible for developing core modules of the Application based on core JAVA, in Struts Framework, and built the Multi-threaded environment.  • Developed Tiles for Layout management.  • Responsible for creating User Interfaces using JSP's, JSTL, HTML.  • Built easy to use interface for better experience using JavaScript, JQuery, HTML and CSS.  • Developed and implemented database layer using iBatis.  • Wrote SQL/PL-SQL Stored Procedures & queries to create, Modify, update data into the DB2 Database.  • Used Apache POI incorporate the Microsoft Documents.  • Used Log4J to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  • Used OWC i.e. Office Web Components, and JFreeCharts.  • Used Putty for Code deployment & Checking log files on production environments.  • Involved in Performance monitoring of the Application.  • Deployed the application on to Apache Tomcat 5.5 and tested the same.  • Investigation and root cause analysis of software and system defects.  • Experienced all phases of SDLC that involved identifying project requirements, technical estimations, development, testing, release and support.    Environment: Core JAVA, Struts Framework 1.2, iBatis, JSP 2.1, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax , Tiles, Apache Tomcat 5.5 , DB2, Apache POI, OWC, XPATH, XML, XSL-FO, XSLT, SAX , Eclipse 3.4.1, VSS, Windows XP, Microsoft Visio. Java 1.5, Linux. Associate Software Engineer Education Bachelor's Bachelor's Skills AWT, BEA, BEA WEBLOGIC, ECLIPSE, EJB