Senior Consultant Senior Consultant Senior Consultant - Department of Education, Long Island City • Extensive experience in Analysis, Design and Development of Client-Server, Web and Wireless applications primarily using .NET framework, ASP.NET, Angular 6/5/2, AngularJS, Ext JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SignalR, MVC 5.2, MVVM, MVP, XML, SQL Server, C#, VB.NET, MS-Access, HTML5/CSS3, HTML, JQuery, PrimeNG, Infragistics, Veracode  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) especially in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deploying of applications and implementing N-tier Client/Server applications using Object Oriented design methodologies.  • Experience in developing N-tier Architecture having Presentation Layer, Business Logic Layer, Data Access Layer using C# and VB.NET.  • Extensive experience in .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0/1.x Web based application development using Microsoft.NET technologies including ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, Server Controls and Web Services.  • Developed Internet/Intranet based applications with ASP.NET, XML/HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, Master pages.  • Expertise knowledge on Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Concepts including Inheritance, Abstraction, Encapsulation and Polymorphism.  • Expertise in working with GUI development using technologies like Master Pages, Ajax Controls, CSS, Themes and Skins.  • Extensive experience in SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000 databases.  • Hands on experience in creating Stored Procedure, Triggers, User Defined Functions, DTS, Transaction Management, T-SQL, Code optimization and performance.  • Extensive work experience on Web based and Windows applications using C#, VB. NET, ASP. NET, ADO. NET, AJAX, JavaScript, VBScript, XML, HTML5/CSS3, Browser compatibility, DHTML Technologies, AJAX, XSLT, XML, XHTML, Serialization, CSS, Reflection, Multithreading  • Experience with development and setup of XSLT template system to generate user interface for Win forms based applications.  • Experience with utilizing AUTOFAC used for dependency injection & specified dependencies using special custom attributes.  • Involved in building a rich web experiences using JavaScript.  • Extensive experience in securing Web API using Oauth2.0 (JWT)  • Proficient in building Web Services using WSDL and SOAP Protocol and Expertise in consuming and publishing Web Services & Web Server Controls.  • Proficient in designing applications using UML-Modeling by applying Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and design patterns concepts and methodologies.  • Used LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML and LINQ to Objects for retrieving the data efficiently and Just in Time manner.  • Experienced SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) for report generation, and integration into .NET applications.  • Expertise in understanding user requirements and translating business requirements into technical solutions. Work Experience Senior Consultant Department of Education, Long Island City September 2017 to Present Responsibilities  Project: Big Apple Games (https://www.psal.org/psalapps/bigapple/)    • Creating Big Apple Games Web App for summer program using Angular 6/5/2, RxJS and PrimeNG.  • Using Angular CLI to generate components, directives, services, pipes and bundling package for production environment.  • Developed Web APIs to interact with database and front end and implemented JWT suing Oauth 2.0 to secure APIs.  • Also involved in the database design and creating business objects for Big Apple Games project.  • Implemented Accessibility to all users by updated bootstrap classes in mostly accessed web pages.  • Implementing Veracode for security and code consistency across different environments.    Project: Payments to Assignors for Middle School (https://www.psal.org/psalapps/finance/login.aspx)    • Created new automated module in existing Finance System for Payments for Site supervisors and other officials with new workflows.  • Integrated the Middle school specific screens into the main PSAL website    Environment: Asp.net, MVC5, Angular 6/5/2, PrimeNG, RXJS, Angular CLI, C#, Web API 2, Jquery, HTML5, CSS3 (OOCSS), Accessibility, Balsamiq, SQL Server 2015, Veracode. Senior Web Developer UPS I-Parcel - Edison, NJ July 2016 to September 2017 UPS I-parcel is a cutting-edge technology focused on helping internet retailers with their international online shopping experience. Efficient and effective combination of technology and logistics that empowers retailers to instantly localize their shopping experience to over 90 destinations and provides access to international online shoppers that might never have previously existed otherwise. The UPS I-parcel network provides an ultra-low cost, fully trackable cross border air express service, resulting in increased international online sales and lower cart abandonment issues.    Responsibilities:  Project: OpsDashboard 2.0 (https://operations.i-parcel.com )    • Working on OPS2 dashboard app using Angular 2, Bootstrap and writing complex components (parent child communication using @Output and @Input) and custom directives (Navbars) with subsequent unit tests using Karma and Jasmine  • Created reusable services injected in app module (using observable and subject provided by ReactiveX) and worked with other developers on the Angular 2 routing module (resolve members, routerstate) and routing guards (CanActivate, CanActivateChild) to manage access levels to different roles throughout the application using Typescript  • Wrote client side validation rules for both Template Driven and Reactive forms (NgIf, NgFor) and Implemented Angular2 pipes and few custom pipes.  • Involved in streamlining grunt build tasks to improve build times and updating views with Typescript to support CRUD operations, also have experience with Angular CLI  • Developed grids using Ext JS as sorting and filtering is an Inbuilt feature in ExtJS  • Worked on MVC design pattern and Restful WebApi to make calls from JS files to MVC controllers and WebApi controllers using token authentication and OAuth.  • Supported optimization on grid and tree controls built using Ext JS and SignalR  • Experience of working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like GruntJS  • Provided solutions for implementing Repository and Unit of Work design pattern and optimize security for the API calls on the service layer.  • Developed scheduler jobs using Hangfire to run recurring jobs for invoicing project.  • Experience with Mongo DB drivers to create new collections and optimize existing queries using projections, filters  • Worked on migration of Ops 1.0 to Ops 2.0 to manifest, create new labels and tracking of events for the UPS parcels using ZebraDesigner for 72 vendors from different countries.  • Implemented C# expressions to support vendor identification and processing invoices (pdf, xml, csv, tab) using recursion.    Environment: Asp.net, MVC 5, Angular 2, ExtJS, Web API, MongoDB, Hangfire, HTML5, Signal R, HTML5/CSS3, SQL Server 2012, Zebra Designer, Bootstrap, TFS Senior Software Developer American Apparel - Los Angeles, CA October 2015 to July 2016 American Apparel is a vertically integrated company. The integration extends to 250+ retail storefronts, all of which are owned by the company. By integrating all aspects of production and avoiding outsourcing, the company achieves a fast turn-around time from design concept to finished product. Because of its vertically integrated and domestic manufacturing model, American Apparel's gross margins are significantly higher than other basic apparel brands.    Responsibilities:  Project: American Apparel Wholesale (http://aawholesale.americanapparel.net/ )    • Designed the new wholesale CRM website using AngularJS (AMD Modules), Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3  • Implemented the 3- tier architecture of the wholesale application using Entity Framework 6, WebAPI and MVC4.  • Implemented CRM integration with the .net applications.  • Worked on the Order Manger Importer app and ATG importer app build on WPF and Silverlight to process the online orders received from ATG web site.  • Worked on AAShipping and AApacking windows applications developed using XAML, WPF and used for shipping and packing the processed orders at the distribution center for AA.  • Worked on the MQ messaging to send emails to customers on the order received, order processing and order shipping details.  • Closely worked with Project Manager to implement Agile Methodology for current and upcoming projects.  • Created an Auto Event Window Service to process emails for the whole life cycle of Web Order    Project: Daedalus (RFID)  • Implemented new features for RFID project using AngularJS and SignalR.  • Also worked on writing data to the tags using Signal R.  • Created a simulating test application to help other developers to work on this application in DEV environment.    Environment: Asp.net, C#, MEAN (Mongo, Express, Angular, Node), MVC4, HTML5/CSS3, Signal R, SQL Server 2012, Bootstrap, Web API, Entity Framework (Dapper), TFS Senior Software Engineer First American Financial Corporation - Santa Ana, CA February 2015 to October 2015 WFG National has requested a completed O&E Report on residential properties in online counties only (non-Abstractor) from Data Trace. Due to their requirements being B2B, and with the foresight this would be a product/ process that we'd like to scale and offer to other Data Trace clients, it was decided that the existing product line with the most flexibly was Title IQ. There is a 24-hour turnaround SLA that has been established for this client.  Responsibilities:    Project: Title IQ  • Worked on MVC Razor Views, controllers and models for Title IQ  • Worked on the workflows build on Silverlight, WPF, XAML to process orders received from WFG National Client. Workflow handles requests for different level of customers.  • Created Web services to integrate with multiple parties for B2B applications  • Created tables and wrote stored procedures based on the User Story requirements  • Worked with Exchange services(MSMQ) to read and process emails  • Worked on mapping the XML data to transform with XSLT on display on the UI.  • Worked on business layer to implement Entity Framework to replace the web services for CRUD operations  • Worked on Resware system to post data to client system using web services and WCF service  • Worked to changing YUI to JQuery  • Worked on tools like Aspose.PDF, Aspose.Words, TallComponent to massage data in Pdfs and word before sending it to the end User.    Environment: Asp.net, .Net 4.0, C#, SQL Server 2008 R2, Web Services, WCF, Silverlight 3.0, MVC 4.0, TFS, JQuery, Issue View, Aspose.PDF, Aspose.Words, Tall Components Senior Software Engineer Capital Group December 2013 to February 2015 Capital Group serves the needs of individual investors, financial intermediaries and institutional clients by managing their investments. Essential activities range from establishing and maintaining client and investor contacts and mutual fund and institutional marketing to publishing account statements and monitoring account records. These activities also include building and maintaining computer networks and systems, and providing a full range of other services to support our associates and our business.    Responsibilities:  Project: Application Technology Management (ATM)  • Worked on gathering requirements and designing data model  • Created a Windows Data mapping app to read data from Excel to update the SQL tables  • Used AngularJS as development framework to build single page application  • Created Controllers, Services, Directives using AngularJS  • Leveraged angular resources for all data access and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Responsible for estimating story points for the User Stories  • Created views for some downstream applications to consume data  • Created WCF solution with multiple services to support a number of teams (SOAP/REST)  • Used JQuery for event handling and AJAX interactions.    Project: Capability Roadmaps  • Created controllers, business service and views using MVC 4.0, .net framework 4.0 and VS 2013  • Wrote algorithms to manage roadmap models based on parent child relationship  • Worked on Repository and Unit of work design pattern  • Used Bootstrap for styling and responsive web page design  • Used Infragistics for Grid and Tree Controls  • Used bundling to reduce server calls.  • Used Entity Framework code first for neater separation of concerns  • Wrote triggers for auditing all the existing tables in SQL Server 2008 R2    Environment: ASP.NET, C#, .NET4.0, AngularJS, MVC4.0, TFS, Perforce, Entity Framework 4.0, MS SQL Server 2008 R2, WCF, T-SQL, Bootstrap, Infragistics, WCF, JQuery Software Engineer First American Financial Corporation - Santa Ana, CA October 2012 to December 2013 First American provides financial services through its Title Insurance and Services segment and its Specialty Insurance segment. The First American Family of Companies' core business lines include title insurance and closing/settlement services; title plant management services; title and other real property records and images; valuation products and services; home warranty products; property and casualty insurance; and banking, trust, and investment advisory services.  Responsibilities:  Project: Tele Title Services  • Migrated existing Mainframe application to .Net  • Worked for the middle tier team to develop business logic, enhancement of existing functionality and de-batching XML.  • Application allows users to create and edit orders using services like Tax Map Key, Ranchos, ARBS and Sectional  • Worked on Validation, Search Engine and General Name Modules using. Net4.0, C#, SQL Server 2008  • Extensively used LINQ to Objects for better performance.  • Involved in optimization of stored procedures and configuring BizTalk Server 2009 for different modules.  • Used TFS for source control and Issue view, Rally for keeping track of the bugs.    Project: Texas Tax and TIPS  • This project was designed and developed for the users of Texas only.  • Developed core functionality with ASP.NET MVC & Entity Framework for maintenance site and implemented client side validation using MVC validation implemented at Controller level  • System allows users to create and lookup at the orders and maintain the Title Orders  • XMLs from Presentation layer manipulated at the business layer using SQL server 2008 and response is transformed using XSLT.  • Texas Tax also allows users to view HOA associated with a property.    Project: Parallel Run  • This project was developed to keep track of the responses created by Main Frame system and responses generated by Tele Title system.  • Business logic was designed in a manner to compare the two systems and manipulate the XMLs which both systems can accommodate.  • Worked on SSIS packages to dump the data from Main Frame System into SQL Server 2008 for the new system.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#, .NET4.0, MVC3.0, TFS, Visual Source Safe, XML, XSLT, MS SQL Server 2005/2008, WCF, T-SQL, BizTalk Server 2009, SSIS, SSRS, Issue View, Rally, CSS Software Engineer Pine River Capital Management - Minnetonka, MN April 2012 to October 2012 Pine River Capital Management is a global asset management firm providing solutions to qualified clients across three actively managed platforms: hedge funds, separate accounts and listed invested vehicles.  Responsibilities:  Project: K database to SQL Server 2008  • Created Web/Win forms for Cash Management Trading System module using Visual studio 2010, MVVM, XAML, SQL Server 2008 and Mojave WCF service.  • Analyze, design and development of the Everest Trading System.  • Ensure all the calls are made to SQL server 2008 and no more calls to K database (product from KX Systems).  • Used Silverlight and MVVM to implement B2B and B2C operations depending on the business and customer requirements.  • Implemented LINQ to perform simple database operations.  • Created service contracts for WCF service to interact with SQL server 2008.  • Created views for faster results and tuning stored procedures for better performance.  • Achieved better performance of SQL by running Execution plans and query optimization techniques in SQL server.  • Implemented Test Driven Development process and developed NUnit Project for application and testing for particular module.  • Wrote unmanaged C++ code to achieve desired output.  • Implementing Silverlight for rich UI and designing.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#, .NET3.5/3.0, MVVM, XAML, Web Services, WCF, WPF, Silverlight 4.0, TortoiseHg , JIRA, JavaScript, JQuery, C++, AJAX, MS SQL Server 2005/2008, ADO.Net, IIS 6.0, HTML5 Developer Wells Fargo - Minneapolis, MN April 2011 to April 2012 IPR is an Image workflow team that is responsible for Home Equity and PCM (smaller loans- cars, boats etc.). I worked as a lead developer for one of the main project which IPR team is currently dealing with - CLIPR (Consumer Loan Imaging and Process Redesign). Presently, 5th version of CLIPR (CLIPR 5) is in production and CLIPR 6 solely MVP pattern is ready for release.  Responsibilities:  Project: Optimization of CLIPR 5(CLIPR 6)  • Developed a multi-tier Windows application CLIPR 6 using MVP, Visual Studio 2010, C#, JQuery, Cascading Style Sheets and a combination of Windows Services.  • Extensive knowledge of the framework written by the developers of Wells Fargo.  • Implemented Object-Oriented Programming concepts of interfaces, inheritance, abstraction and polymorphism  • Used AUTOFAC for dependency injection    Project: Consumer loan Data map  • Developed a web service to call 3 different Wachovia repositories through one call to the data map for displaying archive images through the web browser.  • Used exception handling, multithreading to develop reliable, secure, user-friendly application.  • Created Various Stored Procedures and Functions in SQL Server 2005.  • Used Javascript/JQuery for various type of form validations  • Created Master Pages for the application Using ASP.NET 2.0.  • Used C#. NET 2.0 for the coding of Code behind Files.  • Used Visual Source Safe for Version Control in team environment.  • ASP.Net Validation controls was used for complex validations.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#, .NET3.5/3.0, MVP, Web Services, WCF, TFS, Visual Source Safe, JQuery, JavaScript, VBScript, AJAX, MS SQL Server 2005/2008, ADO.Net, IIS 6.0, HTML5 .NET Developer/Analyst Herff Jones - Des Moines, IA March 2009 to April 2011 Infinity is a sales E - Tool provided by Jolesch Photography configured in a Web farm environment used to conduct interactive transactions and provide Informational reports related to Photography Division. Hermis is the production web site to upload plaque and media generated. Responsibilities:  Project: Infinity (Scheduling)    • Designing and Developing web forms on Infinity using VB.net.  • Understanding business requirement document and writing technical write-ups.  • Extensive use of JavaScript in different modules for different functionality  • Creating Tables, Stored Procedures and Views in T-SQL.    Project: Hermis (Production)  • Creating web forms on Hermis using C#. Net server controls.  • Designed and developed custom .Net components and user controls using C#.  • Prioritize the task and allocate the same to individual programmers.    Environment: VB.NET, C#, .NET3.5, Web Services, JQuery, JavaScript, VBScript, AJAX, MS SQL Server 2005, ADO.Net, SSRS, IIS 6.0, HTML5 Education Master's Skills ADO, MS ACCESS, ADO.NET, SQL SERVER, PL/SQL, SQL, AJAX, ASP, CSS, IIS, ASP.NET, .NET, C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, WCF, OAUTH, REPORTING TOOLS, VB.NET Links http://@Output Certifications/Licenses Driver's License