Senior iOS Developer Senior iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior iOS Developer - Tiempo Development Boston, MA • Mobile Software Engineer with over 9+ years of total IT experience in development and more than extensive experience focused on iOS mobile applications.  • Senior software engineer and founding technical entrepreneur at both globally established tech industry powerhouses and at award-winning innovative start-ups. Strong technical leadership skills combined with practical, hands-on expertise in designing and developing market-driven solutions.  • Extensive experience in Software Industry in developing mobile based iOS applications for iPhone, iPad and involved in application architecture as well as software development.  • Worked on different aspects of project which included development of the concept, analysis, cost and time frame calculation, project management, leading off the team and apps development in all volume or some separate app parts.  • Development of customer-facing and enterprise iOS mobile applications in a variety of industries (ecommerce, finance, transportation, media, entertainment)  • Experience as Software Developer and Rich User Interface applications, integrating with various Databases and Client-Server applications in iPhone/iPad, iOS application development using Swift, Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, UIKit.  • Strong understanding OOP (object oriented programming)concepts such: classes, objects, encapsulation, polymorphism, inheritance, implementation, and interfaces.  • Worked on multiple frameworks like AVFoundation.framework, CFNetwork.framework, CloudKit.framework, CoreAudio.framework, CoreBluetooth.framework, CoreData.framework, CoreLocation.framework, CoreMotion.framework,  • Experienced in XML and JSON Parsing, Multithreading using NSJSONSerialization  • Proficient in designing and developing UI/UX components focused on customers necessities.  • Experienced in architecture design implementing Patterns Design such: Singleton, MVC (Model-View-Controller), Observer.  • Extensive use Swift programming (Swift 3, Swift 4) with hands-on experience in Swift 1, Swift 2, Swift 3, Swift 4.  • Experienced in solving issues with production environment and supported on-call production support.  • Participated successfully in cross platform projects, including network services and GUI applications.  • Used Third-Party APIs such as Google Analytics API, Adobe Omniture for tracking.  • Used Cocoapods to integrate third party frameworks.  • Integration of location-based services including Facebook check-ins, Foursquare, and Twitter  • Strong understanding and implementation of Material Design Guidelines and Metrics.  • Proficient in designing of complex views (layouts) based on XML.  • Experience in managing provision profiles and upload app to App Store.  • Pre-development tools including Reveal for layer visualization and TestFlight for QA  • Efficient storage of data using File System, Core Data and Database, Real  • Familiar with UI design implementation using both Storyboards and NIB files  • Familiar with cloud based syncing including: Dropbox, Box.net, and iCloud  • Worked with QA leads, Graphic Design leads, Project Managers, and Shareholders to effectively develop applications. Work Experience Senior iOS Developer Tiempo Development - Los Angeles, CA November 2017 to Present Apps: Angelika Films Center  App created from scratch, managing a team, creating architecture, estimation time for each module, multiples teams from multiples countries. Angelika Films Center is a iOS mobile app designed for tickets purchase, to see the different billboard.    Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively with Swift 3, Objective C and Cocoa frameworks  • Experience implementing native and 3th Party Frameworks.  • iOS application and server API development from scratch  • Working with Payment API of different Payment Systems  • Involved in iOS applications build using Xcode, iOS SDK, Cocoa Touch, Objective-C  • Used MVC design pattern as core architectural design.  • Experience with multithreading applications using GDC and NSOperations  • Experience ARC memory management in iOS together with XCTest and instruments to ensure there are no regressions or memory leaks.  • Experience in UI dynamic design using Auto-layouts and size classes.  • Created UI designs using auto layout in Storyboard.  • Designing screens using Adobe Illustrator.  • Designing graphic user interfaces, customization of input controls.  • Experienced with RESTful web service consumption with JSON parsing.  • Experience working with data persistence using CoreData, SQLite.  • Worked with UIActionSheets, custom Date Pickers and Date formatters.  • Making network calls to the server using NSURL Connection and using the NSXML Parser for the data parsing.  • Highly expertise in integrating Push Notifications and Network Connectivity.  • Deployed Terminal utilization for SQLite database decryption and modifications.  • Worked on API Mapping using postman as REST Client.    Environments: iOS, Mac OS, Objective C, Xcode, Cocoa Touch, Cocoa framework, JavaScript, JQuery, Core Location, MVC, XCTest, GUI, RESTful web service, JSON, CoreData, SQLite, Jenkins, sourcetree, cornerstone, Jira, Confluence ,postman and AVFoundation. iOS Developer Tiempo Development - Addison, TX May 2016 to October 2017 Maintenance creating architecture, refactoring several features for 3 different app's using Objective-C and Swift. App Set up for release. UI Testing.    Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively with Swift 3.0, Objective C and Cocoa frameworks  • Experience implementing native and 3th Party Frameworks.  • iOS applicationand server API development from scratch  • Working with Payment API of different Payment Systems  • Involved in iOS applications build using Xcode, iOS SDK, Cocoa Touch, Objective-C  • Used MVC design pattern as core architectural design.  • Experience with multithreading applications using GDC and NSOperations  • Experience ARC memory management in iOS together with XCTest and instruments to ensure there are no regressions or memory leaks.  • Experience in UI dynamic design using Auto-layouts and size classes.  • Created UI designs using auto layout in Storyboard.  • Designing screens using Adobe Illustrator.  • Designing graphic user interfaces, customization of input controls.  • Experienced with RESTful web service consumption with JSON parsing.  • Experience working with data persistence using CoreData, SQLite.  • Worked with UIActionSheets, custom Date Pickers and Date formatters.  • Making network calls to the server using NSURL Connection and using the NSXML Parser for the data parsing.  • Highly expertise in integrating Push Notifications and Network Connectivity.  • Deployed Terminal utilization for SQLite database decryption and modifications.  • Worked on API Mapping using postman as REST Client.    Environments: iOS, Mac OS, Objective C, Xcode, Cocoa Touch, Cocoa framework, JavaScript, JQuery, Core Location, MVC, XCTest, GUI, RESTful web service, JSON, CoreData, SQLite, Jenkins, sourcetree, cornerstone, Jira, Confluence ,postman and AVFoundation. iOS Developer Tiempo Development - Chestertown, MD September 2015 to April 2016 Create, modify, maintenance ,creating architecture, refactoring several features applying. Migration from objective-C to swift. WaterLinkis an iOS mobile app designed for analyze water using an external Bluetooth device.  Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively with Objective C , Swift , and Cocoa frameworks.  • Experience implementing native and 3th Party Frameworks.  • iOS applicationand server API development from scratch  • Working with Payment API of different Payment Systems  • Involved in iOS applications build using Xcode, iOS SDK, Cocoa Touch, Objective-C  • Used MVC design pattern as core architectural design.  • Experience with multithreading applications using GDC and NSOperations  • Experience ARC memory management in iOS together with XCTest and instruments to ensure there are no regressions or memory leaks.  • Experience in UI dynamic design using Auto-layouts and size classes.  • Created UI designs using auto layout in Storyboard.  • Designing screens using Adobe Illustrator.  • Designing graphic user interfaces, customization of input controls.  • Experienced with RESTful web service consumption with JSON parsing.  • Experience working with data persistence using CoreData, SQLite.  • Worked with UIActionSheets, custom Date Pickers and Date formatters.  • Making network calls to the server using NSURL Connection and using the NSXML Parser for the data parsing.  • Highly expertise in integrating Push Notifications and Network Connectivity.  • Deployed Terminal utilization for SQLite database decryption and modifications.  • Worked on API Mapping using postman as REST Client.    Environments: iOS, Mac OS, Objective C, Xcode, Cocoa Touch, Cocoa framework, JavaScript, JQuery, Core Location, MVC, XCTest, GUI, RESTful web service, JSON, CoreData, SQLite, Jenkins, sourcetree, cornerstone, Jira, Confluence ,postman and AVFoundation. iOS Developer General Motors - Detroit, MI January 2015 to September 2015 Maintenance, refactoring several features for 2 different targets using same core. These apps are designed for to keep in touch with a car. Start , close doors, check all parameters, motor monitoring, Location.  Responsibilities:  • Design and developed applications using Xcode, iOS SDK, Cocoa Touch, Objective C  • Developed/Modified user-friendly interfaces using widgets like Menus, Dialogs, Layouts, Buttons, Edit Text and Selection widgets like List View and Scroll View as per client need.  • Used the same XIB to design for iPhone and older iPhones by using Auto-layout.  • Experience with other design patterns like Singleton, Publisher - Subscriber and delegation.  • Experience with multithreading applications using GDC and NSOperations  • Experience with both MRR and ARC memory management in iOS together with XCTest and instruments to ensure there are no regressions or memory leaks.  • Designing graphic user interfaces, customization of input controls.  • Worked extensively with Objective C and Cocoa frameworks.  • Worked with Cordova plugins for UI interface.  • Worked on web service calls, XML and JSON parsing included in the project.  • Followed a work data flow principle for design and development.  • Worked closely within a cross functional team of testers and developers.  • Debugging issues at onsite whenever required.  • Worked with Instruments and Xcode for debugging.  • Worked with TFS (Team Foundation Server) to checkout and update the codebase changes.  • Extensively worked with RESTful web service consumption with XML and JSON parsing.  • Working with data persistence using CoreData, SQLite, MSSQL, MySQL.    Environment: iOS, Mac OS X, Objective C, XCode, CoreData, Cocoa, Cocoa Touch, Cocoa framework, core Location framework and above, XML & JSON, XCtest, NSOperations, RESTful web service, MVC Design Pattern, UI interface, SQLite, MSSQL, MySQL. iOS Developer Softtek - Cincinnati, OH April 2013 to December 2014 Several Apps created from scratch estimation time for each module. GE Treasury iOS mobile app designed to internal company propose in order to corroborate critical information faster.    Responsibilities:  • Experience Objective C  • Used MVC design pattern as core architectural design.  • Experience with other design patterns like Singleton, Publisher - Subscriber and delegation.  • Experience with multithreading applications using GDC and NSOperations  • Experience with both MRR and ARC memory management in iOS together with XCTest and instruments to ensure there are no regressions or memory leaks.  • Experience in UI dynamic design using Auto-layouts and size classes.  • Developed UI for most of the modules in the application using ListView, GridView, and Tab layouts using Action Bar.  • Extensively worked on designing the layouts to compatible with screens of different resolutions.  • Involved in development and enhancements of features to restrict the usage based on Authorization and Authentication tokens.  • Handled swipe features and touch motion across the application.  • Worked on replacing List View with Recycler View to improve the performance along with custom adapters for publishing data in Recycler View.  • Developed multi-plane layouts using common strategies resulting in better visual balance  • Implemented UI to display data consumed from server if forms were downloaded  • Fixed bugs when notified in JIRA or documented by QA  • Used Core Graphics to implement custom handwriting feature  • Utilized Dropbox API to setup cloud storage support  • Experience in Designing graphic user interfaces, customization of input controls.  • Experienced with RESTful web service consumption with XML and JSON parsing.  • Experience working with data persistence using CoreData, SQLite, MSSQL, MySQL.  • Self-trained and working knowledge of Android development.    Environment: iOS, Xcode, Objective-C, SDK, using ARC, Core Data and Auto Layout, GitHub for version control, XML, JSON Frameworks: UIKit, Core Location, Agile Scrum Methodology. Eclipse IDE, JSON, REST Web Services, XML, Crashlytics, Retrofit , Action-Bar and GIT-HUB. Software Application support engineer Softtek - Cincinnati, OH May 2009 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Troubleshooting, monitoring production applications.  • Environment and quality assurance,  • Solving bugs and request tickets, provide Root cause analysis  • I work closely with others teams.  • Logging and monitoring incidents and request in production environment , tracking the escalation  • process, identifying problems, closing the incident and obtaining confirmation from the customer, reports,  • performance metrics, SLA, escalating request and incident tickets Education Bachelor's Skills MVC (5 years), XCODE (5 years), SQLITE (5 years), UI (5 years), REST (4 years) Additional Information Operating Systems Mac OSX 10.5, 10.6, 10.7, 10.8, Unix/Linux, VxWorks, MS-DOS, Windows  Phone Simulator and Emulator iPhone/iPad, Windows 8/Mobile, Geny motion  Web Servers/Services Apache, SOAP, REST  Web Technologies JavaScript, PHP, Python, C3  Test/other tools JIRA, XCTest, UI Automation.  Database MySQL, SQL Server, MSSQL Server Management Studio, SQLite, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server Compact (SQL CE), Core Data, Realm  Development Models & Patterns MVC, Scrum method of Agile, SVN, GIT.  Tools XCode, Visual Studio, Eclipse, Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop