Director of Development Director of Development Austin, TX Continue to learn new technologies and use them to push innovation and  automation into the hands of users Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Development MSB Consulting - Austin, TX August 2018 to Present Oversee and provide direction on the technical direction of development.   Build a development team and oversee employee development towards   Microsoft Certifications and Partnership. Oversee development and   execution of all billing operations. Owner/Lead Developer Chronic Assist Systems, LLC June 2017 to Present • Identified a new market in medical software.  • Designed and developed a web based platform for use by providers to track time working with patients including full API suite.  • Designed and developed Android and iOS apps for use by patients.  • Gathered and managed a team to help perform functional testing, design marketing materials,  do marketing research, sell and provide support.  • Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, PHP, MySQL, Java, Swift, Linux, Android,  iOS, Laravel, Response Design Owner/Lead Developer Keep Your Seat Software, LLC February 2017 to Present • Identified an underserved market in charity software.  • Designed and developed a web based bidding platform for use in silent and live auction  events.  • Worked with existing charity support companies to provide enhanced functionality that  streamlined payments and collections.  • Gathered and managed a team to perform functional testing, design marketing materials, and provide support services to charities and their patrons.  • Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, PHP, MySQL, Linux, Laravel, Responsive  Design, eCommerce Owner/Lead Developer Anderson Technology Group April 2014 to Present Supported various clients by identifying opportunities for streamlining and/or automating  business processes then providing custom software solutions.  • Integrated into client's existing software solutions and teams in order to provide paths to enhance, upgrade or migrate existing software.  • Designed and developed new solutions to reduce workload and expenses by automating key  processes.  • Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, ASP.NET, MS SQL Server, PHP, MySQL,  C/C++, VB.NET, WinForms, Java, Objective-C, Linux, Windows, Android, iOS, Laravel,  Lemonstand, Responsive Design, eCommerce Database Specialist/Lead Developer Pathways Youth & Family Services January 2007 to August 2015 Provided support to clinical and billing staff by creating enhanced automation features in an existing web  based information system.  • Implemented features to provide offline documentation which reduced caseworker documentation times from 10 days to 2 days.  • Implemented automatic electronic filing of documents by emailing the documents.  • Identified short comings of the aging system, worked with stakeholders to get approval for a new system and then designed and implemented a complete re-write using current technologies.  • Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Classic ASP, ASP.NET, MS SQL Server, PHP, Perl, MySQL, C/C++,  Visual Basic 6.0, WinForms, Linux, Windows Senior Back End Developer Clarity Ventures, Inc June 2012 to April 2014 Worked with clients in a consulting capacity to provide direction on existing software projects. Directly  communicated with clients, including providing estimates and designing of new and existing projects  and/or components.  • Designed and implemented testing and quality assurance of code.  • Created internal application which integrated into the existing time management system to streamline  capturing billable time.  • Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, MS SQL Server, PHP, MySQL,  C/C++, VB.NET, WinForms, Java, Objective-C, Flash/ActionScript, Linux, Windows, Android, iOS,  DotNetNuke, Drupal, Lemonstand, Responsive Design, eCommerce Developer October 2005 to January 2007 Apex Software  • Maintained and upgraded legacy sketching application  • Worked with management and eternal partners to identify potential integration paths between the legacy  application and external applications. Designed and Developed ATL/C++ controls to achieve the integration.  • Translated old Delphi code  • Researched new technologies (both hardware and software) as they became available to identify  potential marketability. Developed prototype code against these technologies.  • Technologies: C/C++, Delphi, .NET, C#, WinForms, Windows, Tablet PCs, Pocket PCs IT Contract Consultant Austin Psychiatric Consultants January 2005 to October 2005 • Maintain, upgrade and design network, hardware and software systems for a small psychiatric practice.  • Design and implement web site.  • Setup and administration of RDP remote access system.  • Management of backup systems including upgrade from DVD media to tape systems  • Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, Windows Director of IT/Lead Software Developer CompuCare Management Systems, Inc February 2001 to August 2005 • Identified deficiencies in existing server and software technologies.  • Managed a team of developers to create a new information system to track information on foster care  clients.  • Integrated financial and claims processes into the new system  • Designed and implemented extensive data conversions and migrations between both external systems and various versions of internal systems.  • Promoted to Director of IT which included setup of server, maintenance, backups, security policies and router configuration. Setup and administration of RDP remote access system.  • Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Classic ASP, MS SQL Server, PHP, MySQL, MS Access, Visual Basic 6.0, Director of IT/ Software Developer, Harris & Harris RDP February 2000 to February 2001 • Provided full computer system support.  • Identified emerging system requirements for both server and desktop systems.  • Upgraded servers and desktops to support new requirements.  • Identified issues with existing MS Access scheduling and accounting system.  • Designed and implemented a new web based scheduling and accounting system including advanced reporting  features and schedule conflict management.  • Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Classic ASP, MS SQL Server, MS Access, Visual Basic 6.0, Windows, RDP,  Routers Education Some college Skills ASP (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), JQuery (5 years), Ajax (8 years), Asp.Net (8 years), PHP (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), Android (4 years), Java (4 years), IOS (2 years), Swift (1 year), Linux, Laravel (3 years) Additional Information Skills & Abilities   HTML/CSS JavaScript JQuery AJAX  ASP.NET Classic ASP PHP Java  C# VB.NET Objective-C Swift  WinForms MS SQL Server MySQL C/C++  Visual Basic 6.0 Full Stack LAMP MS Access  Linux Windows Android iOS  Laravel Unity Photoshop MS Office