Report Developer Report <span class="hl">Developer</span> Report Developer - Tata Consultancy Work Experience Report Developer Tata Consultancy - US August 2017 to Present USA  Environment: Cognos TM1, Cognos 11 Analytics, Oracle 10g Database  Role: Report Developer    Description:  The project deals with sales and services of Lawson groups. The sales and services of Lawson group  has involved in over 40 countries across the globe. The services are executed based on customers'  orders. This business intelligence suite to stream lines the collection, analysis and dissemination of key performance indicators to management.    Responsibilities:  • Cognos TM1 (building Dimensions, Cubes, Processes, Loading data using TI, Perspectives and web  tools)  • Testing of Cognos TM1 application and data Loading using TI  • Interacted with business analyst to gather business requirements and designed functional and technical requirements documentation.  • Using Framework Manager tool of Cognos, develop those model to fulfill the Business  Requirements.  • Created Dashboard Reports to display multiple reports in single page.  • Developed Standard Reports, List, Cross-tab reports Using Report Studio and Query Studio.  • Created multiple page reports with page-break based on the first page of report using  master-detail relationship.  • Created Cascading prompts and worked with various prompt controls like Value prompt and Date & Time prompt.  • Created Drill through report.  • Implemented security at Framework Manager level.  • Validated report results with the source data through querying and authorized the reports to production environment.  • Interacting with the End users on a regular basis for resolving issues pertaining to the reports.  • Scheduled Reports on weekly basis.  • Prepared System Test Cases.  • Involved in Unit Testing  Project #1 Sr. Software Engineer Tata Consultancy May 2016 to Present Project #2 Report Developer Tata Consultancy June 2016 to August 2017 Environment: Cognos BI 10.2, Oracle 10g Database  Role: Report Developer    Description:  Nicepak is the European leader in the manufacture and supply of wet wipes. With presence across the world, they are a large company with an efficient portfolio of commercial and consumer products. Producing both branded and own-brand wipes for some of America's  largest retailers.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Developed Standard Reports, List, Cross-tab reports Using Report Studio and Query Studio.  • Created Cascading prompts and worked with various prompt controls like Value prompt and Date & Time prompt.  • Created Drill-up and Drill-down reports.  • Scheduled (weekly, monthly) and distributed reports using Schedule Management in  Cognos Connection.  • Implemented security at Framework Manager level.  • Validated report results with the source data through querying and authorized the reports to production environment.  • Interacting with the End users on a regular basis for resolving issues pertaining to the reports.    Declaration:  I hereby declare that the above furnished details are true to the best of my knowledge. Education B.TECH in engineering & technology JNTU - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Skills BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE (3 years), CODA (3 years), COGNOS (3 years), IBM COGNOS (3 years), ORACLE (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Cognos TM1, Cognos 11 Analytics, Cognos 10.x, 8.x (  BI/ OLAP Tools Framework Manager, Report Studio, Query Studio,  Analysis Studio, Powerplay Transformer)    Databases Oracle 10G, SQLServer2005, DB2    Languages SQL, JavaScripts, Lansa, Windows, AS400, COBOL