Sr. Net Developer Sr. Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Net Developer - KPMG Scottsdale, AZ ? 10+ years of experience in Development Life Cycle, Web&Client Application Design, Development, Programming, Testing, Support Maintenance, and End-User support using various technologies and platforms.  ? Experienced in full Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) starting from Requirements Analysis, Design, Coding, Unit and Integration Testing.  ? Expertise in object-oriented and test-drivenprogramming in .Net C#, Java, and PHP.  ? Experience in frontend development with the Angular.js Framework, the React.js Framework, and Redux.  ? Expertise in front end Web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, XAML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular.js, jQuery, Bootstrap  ? Excellent working Knowledge of ASP.NET 4.5 controls like Grid View, Detail View, Master Page and code behind.  ? Expert Knowledge of object oriented programming techniques and Microsoft design patterns like Model View View Model Patterns (MVVM), MVC, repository pattern  ? Hands on experience with web services architecture like Service Oriented Architecture (WCF), Restful Web services (Web API).  ? Excellent skills in developing code for the database applications to interact with the databases, using ADO.NET  ? Hands on experience with Entity Framework and LINQ  ? Extensive work experience on Functionality Testing, GUI Testing, Regression Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Black Box Testing, Ad-Hoc and End to End testing.  ? Expertise in creating test cases from requirements document, use cases and from a prototype or an existing application  ? Excellent working Knowledge of Backend programming, RDBMS (SQL Server, T-SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Views and Triggers).  ? Have worked with agile methodologies like Scrum and Kanban.  ? Worked with Team Foundation Server 2010, 2012 and 2013, Visual SourceSafe, Git Version Control, and Subversion control system.  ? Enthusiastic, self-starter, eager to meet challenges and quickly assimilate latest technologies, skills, concepts and ideas.  ? Excellent communication, analytical, presentation, training and interpersonal skills, Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Net Developer KPMG June 2017 to Present Role: Sr. Net Developer    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in business meeting and elaborated applicationbusiness logic  ? Led transition from a PHP multiple page web application to a single page application with a .NET C# backend and a React.js frontend. This effort decreased agents talk time by almost 50%. Transitioning to a single page application allowed agents to easily navigate between the order process without reloading PHP pages.  ? Led software development initiatives with one of our major telco partners by managing day-to-day tasks that include design, coding, debugging,testing of new features.  ? Used MVC, React.js and Reduxon the front end  ? Experience of handling queries using .Net 4.5 LINQ components.  ? Implemented Web Services for validating User Authenticity.  ? Used windows authentication for user access.  ? Implemented various Validation Controls and created Custom Validation Controls using JavaScript to perform Client-Side Validation.  ? Led design, coding, and testing of our ETL (Extract, Transform, Load). The ETL service is a .NET C# API.  ? Used role based Authorization for security. Worked with Gitfor version control and Code Review. Used TeamCity for automatic builds and continuous integration.  ? Maintained a C# .NET API that connected our services to a SOAP API created by the partner to allow us to place orders and request status updates about previous orders.  ? Handled communication with our business partners and troubleshooting our partner's APIs to make sure orders are completed.  ? Full stack development for websites that our sales agents use to process orders for our clients.  ? Wrote PHP scripts to import client data, synchronize data, and organize data in a MySQL database.  ? Maintained a MySQL database and facilitated business reporting by optimizing queries.  ? Created reporting tools for our business analysts using PHP and MySQL as the backend and Javascript, HTML5, and CSS on the frontend.  ? Coded and launched a WordPress + MySQL database for our dashboards and reporting websites.  ? Integrated credit prediction capabilities in our ordering process using tools provided by the data science team.  ? Maintained an application written in Scala whose purpose is to analyze and score consumer's reviews of their experience with our partner's products.    Environment: .Net Framework, Visual Studio, MVC , C#, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Web API, WCF, SQL SERVER, AngularJS. Sr. Net Developer Freddie Mac - McLean, VA February 2015 to May 2017 Freddie Mac is implementing a new web application aiming at improving system performance, meeting an increasing user demand and a better user experience. The legacy application that was in use for more than 8 years was not meeting the current market demand in terms responsiveness, application to application communication and accessibility .In order to respond to these market needs, we are using MVC and Angular JS which allow us to use 2 ways data binding and avoid round trip to server. We are also using Bootstrap on the UI to improve the application responsiveness. This application is composed mainly by 2 big parts. The first part is the "Admin Website" also called internal website. This web site is accessed only by Freddie Mac employees for internal use only. The second part is the "External web site" also called the Front End Website, which is mainly build for the public. These 2 applications have some similarities but they are also different in some security and user functionalities.  Responsibilities:  ? Participated in business meeting and requirement gathering  ? Involved in Discussion Board for Client Interaction for the change requests and follow-ups.  ? Used MVC, WEB API 2, AngularJSfor the front end  ? Used WCF Services and Entity Framework 7 for website development.  ? Implemented Search functionality for the website large data.  ? Used JSon for server communications and application.  ? Experience of handling queries using .Net 4.5 LINQ components.  ? Implemented Web Services for validating User Authenticity.  ? Used windows authentication for user access.  ? Implemented various Validation Controls and created Custom Validation Controls using JavaScript to perform Client Side Validation.  ? Used jQuery extensively across the application like making Ajax calls, cascading menus, calendar controls, tool tips, sliding menus, Ajax loading tabs, expand collapse panels etc.  ? Created WCF Services and Client Proxy for communication between Application Server and Web Server.  ? Created Joins, Views, functions, stored procedures and triggers as part of the database programming using SQL server 2012  ? Involved in performance tuning and query optimization.  ? Used role based Authorization for security. Worked with TortoiseSVN for version control, Code Review and for automatic builds and continuous integration.    Environment:  .Net Framework 4.5, Visual Studio 2013, MVC 5, C#, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Web API2, WCF, SQL SERVER 2012, Angular JS. Sr Net Developer United Health Care - Minnetonka, MN April 2014 to February 2015 Project: Multiple Projects (Avaya Callback)    Optum provides outreach services to consumers using a tool that allows them to make thousands of automated calls, and increases staff efficiency by not requiring them to make manual dials. Most campaigns call consumers up to three times, leaving voicemails for them if the Dialer cannot reach a "live" contact. If a consumer calls them back, there is no way for staff to update the Dialer as it is an outbound system only. Because of this, the Avaya Dialer must be updated on a daily basis with any information regarding customer callbacks. The Dialer can only receive this information via a flat file.  The Avaya Dialer Callback website is a tool that allows them to post a subset of consumer data for everyone to access. This consumer data matches the data inside the Dialer. That way, staff can go to the website when a consumer calls back regarding a voicemail they received from the Dialer. The staff then updates records as calling back, and that information is then sent to the Dialer.  The Callback website then creates the flat files needed to update the Dialer regarding the callbacks. I was involved in requirement gathering with client, estimation, development both (frontend & backend) and deployment in this project.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Software development life cycle (SDLC) of application from design phase to implementation phase, testing, Deployment and maintenance phase  ? Extensively used Agile-Scrum Methodology to complete the project  ? Designed the application using an ASP.NET Web forms, ADO.NET, C#  ? Created Html Helpers in order to reduce the amount of tedious typing of HTML tags  ? Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) using Layout Pages, HTML, jQuery, Java script, Telerik Kendo UI, CSS classes and Custom Controls.  ? Developed Windows Communication Foundation (WCF- SOAP) methodology to implement the web services  ? Developed stored procedures, views andtriggers for data manipulation, ensuring set up relations includes indexing, constraints, and foreign keys.  ? Performed Unit testing with the testing tool NUnit.  ? Worked on Microsoft Team FoundationServer for version control, individual task and branching  ? Worked with testing team for test support, defect fixing and end to end integration testing.  ? Involved in Production support for the existing claim System.    Environment:  .NET Framework 4.0, C#.NET 4.0, ASP.NET 4.0, ADO.NET, Visual studio, SQL Server 2008, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, SSRS, WCF, SOAP, HTTP, XML, HTML, TFS. Sr. Software Developer Acxiom - Conway, AR July 2012 to May 2014 Project: Recognition Manager is an entity resolution product that helps to consistently recognize and link individuals across multiple addresses and multiple name representations available in the marketplace. It also provides the customer the ability to link a consumer across multiple data stores.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in business meeting and elaboratedstrategic plan  ? Maintained a WordPress website with content about the Recognition Manager product  ? Refactored a .Net application into PHP to better integrate with their existing WordPress websites.  ? Maintained MySQL database and integrated that with other applications.  ? Used HTML, CSS for our front end applications  ? Designed, coded, and maintained a REST api to facilitate communication between the Recognition Manager product and other internal and external websites.  ? Made sure our websites are 508 compliant and ADA compliant by following industry guidelines  ? Worked in Linux/Unix environment with CentOS  ? The above mentioned API was written in Java using the Spring Framework and Tomcat.    Environment:WordPress, MySQL, HTML, CSS, PHP, PHPStorm, Java, Spring Framework, Tomcat NET Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC September 2010 to June 2012 Project: Credit card and Billing Management System    Bank of America is a leading provider of banking and financial services in United States. The Credit card and bill payment Management system provides online corporate credit card services to clients. The system provides the web-based interface for credit card implementation for its corporate customers. E-statement server provides the facility for the clients to view their statements, transaction history, merchant details, and disputes. It also provides the facility to inquire about the transactions. Card management modules allow maintaining the accounts i.e. creating new accounts, modifying the existing accounts etc.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in requirements gathering and compiled them into design document.  ? Created Use Case and Class Diagrams in MS Visio using UML notations.  ? Involved in Discussion Board for Client Interaction for the change requests and follow-ups.  ? Used ASP.NET Master Pages, jQuery, utilizing Server Controls, User Controls, Data Grid controls, Form Validation controls, Custom controls and CSS.  ? Provided session level security and password authentication using Session objects and Cookies.  ? Used ADO.NET Data Adapter, Data Sets, Data Readers for retrieving, querying, and storage and manipulation interface screens developed using MVC.  ? Data binding was extensively used to bind various server controls to the data from database.  ? List controls like repeater controls, data list controls and data grid controls was used in displaying rows of data in a customized template format.  ? Implemented Web Services for validating credit card information.  ? Implemented various Validation Controls and also created Custom Validation Controls using JavaScript to perform Client Side Validation.  ? Used jQuery extensively across the application like making Ajax calls, cascading menus, calendar controls, tool tips, sliding menus, Ajax loading tabs, expand collapse panels etc.  ? Created WCF Services and Client Proxy for communication between Application Server and Web Server.  ? Created Joins, Views, functions, stored procedures and triggers as part of the database programming.  ? Involved in performance tuning and query optimization.  ? Used forms based Authentication and role based Authorization for security.  ? Worked on TFS for version control, Code Review and for automatic builds and continuous integration.    Environment:  .Net Framework, Visual Studio, ASP.NET, C#, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Web Services, WCF, SQL SERVER 2008, UML, MS Visio. Net Developer PNC Financial Services - Pittsburgh, PA February 2009 to August 2010 PNC Financial Services is developing a new platform (IS Toolset) platform designed to deliver an enhanced Portfolio based offering that will provide Financial Advisory's with a set of seamless end-to-end tools to help guide the FA's through the selection of a portfolio solution, initiating the processes to implement, monitor and manage the selected IS portfolio    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in studying the Current Pace Systems for Non-Discretionary Products and gathering the User requirements for MFP Non-Discretionary and Discretionary products and Creating Design Document.  ? Developed different GUI screens using ASP.Net and user validations using Java Script.  ? Involved in developing style sheets using CSS for ASP.Net pages.  ? Developed Triggers, Views, and Stored Procedures using SQL Server 2005.Extensive use of SQL Profiler tool.  ? Generated Business reports using SQL Server 2005 Reporting Services.  ? Used SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) to transform data from Flat Files to SQL Server 2005.  ? Extensive use of Infragistics controls to provide a very rich UI.  ? Created and Consumed Web Services. Web Services were used to receive data and created to send data.  ? Security of Web services was implemented using Web Services Enhancement Framework.  ? Created User controls and Custom Server controls. Also created Web parts for SharePoint Portal Server.  ? Followed N-Layer architecture. The UI would communicate through Business Logic Layer and not directly from Data Access Layer.  ? Performed unit testing using Nunit Testing Framework.  ? Used Visual Source Safe (VSS) as a Development Environment.    Environment:  Microsoft .Net Framework, Visual Studio, C#, ASP.Net, Web services, WSE Framework, SQL Server 2012, SQL Server Reporting Services, SQL Server Integration Services, and JavaScript. NET Developer CIGNA Corporation - Hartford, CT April 2008 to January 2009 DCP CareGain's Defined-Care Platform is a comprehensive software platform based on Consumer-Driven Health Plan (CDHP), which incorporates eligibility and a claim-processing engine. It integrates with various upstream and downstream systems including Mainframes, MQ Series, Brio reporting and various third party claim forwarding engines.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for the use case analysis and design of tech specs.  ? Extensively involved in coding of Claims module of Admin portal (Intranet site), windows services for auto contribution scheduler, scope 91-schedulers and for claims on hold extract.  ? Extensively involved in writing stored procedures for claims moduleand also SQL queries for Adhoc reports  ? Involved in creating SSRS reports for claims module.  ? Extensively Involved in the Maintenance of the system by providing Claims production support and expediting the tasks within the defined SLAs.  ? Implementation, deployment and support on development, End to end, systems acceptance, staging and production servers.    Environment:  Windows XP, ASP.NET, VB.NET Visual Studio, C#, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XSL, IIS, SQL Server 2005, DB2, COBOL, SSRS and PVCS Education Bachelor's Skills Net (9 years), C# (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), MS SQL Server (8 years), SQL (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Distributed services: WCF, XML Web Services, SOAP, WebAPI, Restful Service, WSDL  Version Control: Visual Source Safe (VSS), Team Foundation Server (TFS), Git, SVN  Languages: C#.NET, Java, PHP, SSQL  Operating Systems: Windows XP/Vista/7/8  Web Technologies: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, MVC, MVVM, JavaScript, Angular JS, React.js, Redux, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Bootstrap,  Databases: MS SQL Server 2008/2012, MySQL, Oracle  Tool and Utilities: Microsoft Enterprise Library, NUnit Testing Tool, Visual Studio, Microsoft Visio