Full Stack Software Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Engineer Cleveland, OH Experienced Software Engineer with a demonstrated history of working in the E-Commerce and Healthcare IT industry for  4+ Years. Skilled in designing, implementing, testing and delivering complex backend and web applications using variety  programming languages. Strong programming and project management professional with a Master of Science - MS focused  in Computer and Information Sciences, General from Cleveland State University. Work Experience Full Stack Software Developer CompSource Inc - Cleveland, OH July 2019 to Present Design and Develop new website for CompSource Inc. which is being migrated from older platform to newer .NET platform.  Lead a team of designers and developers to create new website from scratch.  Deploy new features in existing in-house web application. Senior Software Engineer CompSource Inc - Cleveland, OH May 2018 to May 2019 Update and maintain www.compsource.com and www.unitedoffice.com by making frequent changes to front-end website  and in-house web application using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery etc.  • Develop backend logic between database and front-end and implement it using Classic ASP, C#, ASP.NET.  • Update database create new tables, stored procedures, triggers, etc. as required depending on projects using SQL Server  Management Studio.  • Create new development packages using SQL Server Integration Services and merge data from heterogeneous data sources  into SQL Server and automate administrative tasks.  • Complete routine processes of downloading data (products details, images, pdf's) related to products and distributors from FTP servers and store it in our database and push it to live. Re-index all databases twice a month using SQL queries.  • Generate sitemap files using SQL queries and submit it on google console and Bing. Remove crawl error from google search  console, create new funnels, manage keywords, using google analytics and AdWords account, and develop new strategies by observing user behavior. Associate Software Developer Savy software - FigMD - Pune, Maharashtra April 2016 to July 2017 Designed and implemented CertLink online certification system using Angular JS as front end, along with C# as controller  layer and SQL Server as RDBMS. (Healthcare IT)  • Maintained and implemented new features in ABFM Prime Registry Application (American Board of Family Medicine).  • Created Web Services using ASP.NET WCF and integrated with database along with server-side coding.  • Focused on Full Stack Web Development including JQuery-Ajax, RESTful APIs in C#, and SQL Server as RDBMS.  • Domain knowledge includes working with EHR and PQRS Submission, HIPAA law. Associate Web Developer Compassion software solution - Pune, Maharashtra June 2014 to July 2015 • Create/Troubleshoot data-driven web applications for clients in Financial sectors using ASP.NET MVC and C#.  • Integrate and Consume different REST/SOAP API's for clients on front-end using JQuery/JavaScript.  • Update & Maintain proprietary inventory software using WinForms and C#.  • Wrote Complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers using MS SQL Server as RDBMS. Associate Database Architect Compassion software solution - Pune, Maharashtra August 2012 to July 2013 • Planned and conducted database unit and system tests, analyzed results and took corrective action.  • Developed database models using advanced tools and technologies  • Assisted in the reviewing and documenting of design application.  • Participated in the technical design of database applications.  • Maintained SQL scripts indexes and complex queries for analysis and extraction.    MY WEBSITES    • https://compsource.com  • http://unitedoffice.com/  • http://pranavgaikwad.com/  • https://saurabhdhole.com/  • https://iayatashop.com/ Education Master of Science in Computer and Information Science Cleveland State University August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics Engineering in Electronics Engineering Shivaji University July 2010 to May 2015 Skills Data analysis, Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Asp, Asp.net, Web design, Visual studio, Api, C#, Javascript, Bootstrap, Python, Software development, Svn, Vb.net, Linux Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/pranav-joshii Additional Information SKILLS  • Programming Languages: C#, ASP.NET, VB.NET, Python, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, REST API  • Database System: MS SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle DB, Mongo DB, PostgreSQL.  • Tools: SVN, GitHub, Adobe DTM, Adobe Analytics, JIRA, Visual Studio IDE.  • Software Development Methods: Agile methodology, SCRUM, Waterfall.  • Industrial Knowledge: Architectural Design, Web Design, IT Strategy, Data Visualization, Statistical Data Analysis.