SOFTWARE DEVELOPER <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> Ocean Grove, NJ Software Developer with 3 years experience coding, testing, and implementing improvements to web applications, console applications, and SQL Jobs  TECHNICAL TOOLS  C#, Razor, LINQ, Entity Framework, ASP.NET, .NET Framework, XML, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, ReactJS, Node.JS, HTML, CSS, SQL Server, SQL Server Management Studios, Visual Studios, Visual Studios Code, MVC Framework, IIS, Bootstrap, Semantic UI, Git, Visual Studio Team Services Work Experience SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Partner Engineering And Science September 2017 to Present Analyze, design, develop, test and maintain applications for client, company, and employee data using C#, SQL Server, HTML and other related tools.  ? Increase company productivity by designing and developing web and console applications to process company and client financials.  ? Increased company accounting productivity by designing and developing a web application that monitors and manipulate project wire transfer data and allows the user to communicate with project managers via email.  ? Designed, developed, tested, and maintain a timesheet web application for International employees to increase payroll processing efficiency.  ? Designed, developed, tested, and maintain a console application to process new and existing employee's information into third party application.  ? Designed, developed, and tested a web application that calculates commission for project management and risk management based on invoices paid and paid total for project upon completion. APPLICATION DEVELOPER UNITEDHEALTH GROUP October 2015 to March 2017 Designed and maintained, front-end screen maps, front-end, and back-end applications to manipulate claim data.  ? Collaborated with a team of analyst, developers, subject matter experts, and leaders for solution assessment.  ? Developed Unit Test Plans to test coding changes and manipulate data to ensure desired results using debugger.  ? Retrieved, stored, and manipulate data in claims database.  ? Configured applications in Test and Production environments using the Staging Library Application, Endevor.  ? Analyzed EDI 837 Institutional and Professional Health Care Claims.  ? Supported triage and resolution of defects to refine and improve quality using Application Life Cycle software. SYSTEMS ANALYST UnitedHealth Group - Basking Ridge, NJ May 2014 to October 2015 Obtained, interpreted, and analyzed business requirements and issues.  ? Prepared and executed test cases to ensure the quality of claims processing applications.  ? Acted as the liaison between Business and Systems Analysts, Developers, and project management groups.  ? Performed documentation and communication activities for technical and business personnel.  ? Collaborated with a team of analyst, developers, subject matter experts, and leaders for solution assessment.  ? Developed Unit Test Plans to test coding changes and manipulate data to ensure desired results using debugger.  ? Supported triage and resolution of defects to refine and improve quality using Application Life Cycle software. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Montclair State University Skills Coding, Object oriented, Object oriented design, Ood, Software testing, HTML 5, Javascript, jQuery, Git, ASP, SQL Server (2 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/nehemiahowens Additional Information KEY SKILLS  ? Coding and programming  ? Object Oriented Design (OOD)  ? Problem solving and logical thinking    ? Written and Verbal Communications  ? Software testing and debugging