TVOS Developer TVOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Currently looking for entry level software engineer opportunities with a team that enjoys what they do. Colorado Springs, CO Most of my 5 years of professional work experience was at Unisys where I worked on many Federal projects for the US government and a few commercial clients. My technical focus has been in native iOS/TVOS development and security but I have also worked with React (JavaScript), native Android development (Java), and Amazon Web Services. For the past year I have been freelancing but recently I have started looking for more permanent opportunities. Work Experience TVOS Developer Freelance - JH Mobile Development - Kalona, IA February 2019 to April 2019 Project: Iowa Road Cams  View over 370+ cameras located all over Iowa on your Apple TV. Users can view a map of Iowa to select the locations of the cameras they wish to view, rearrange the order of the cameras, and change the layout the cameras are presented. This was a personal project developed and distributed by me.    Programming language: Swift Software Engineer (Mobile) Unisys - St. Louis, MO February 2014 to July 2018 Client: USDA Rural Development  Project: Six tablet apps (iPad/Windows): Tenant Review, Physical Inspection, and Management Review  Duration: 2/1/2014 - 7/1/2018  Description: Multi-Family Housing Integrated System (MFHIS) was a suite of three iPad/Android tablet apps: Tenant Review, Physical Inspection, and Management Review. The applications allow property inspectors from USDA to go onsite take pictures, notes, and answer government regulation questions on the state of the property.  ? Programming: 50% Management: 50% (Met with client personally on-site)  ? Tier II Security Clearance was required and obtained for this project  ? Data security, user input accuracy, and expediting the user process to save time and money    Client: Air Force Reserve Command  Project: Mission Mobile Kit  Duration: 2/1/2014 - 7/1/2018  Description: AFRC Mobile Mission Kit was an iPad application that allowed pilots and crew members to track how long  they flew, what the conditions were, and how much fuel they used.  ? Programming (ObjC, Swift): 90% Management: 10%  ? User input accuracy, process time savings, and user feedback were our project measurables    Client: Air France  Project: Survey Kiosk Applications  Duration: 1/1/2018 - 4/1/2018  Created an iPad application and two web applications. The iPad was used at the airport to have users take a short survey. Users could also receive an email to take the survey and take it on our website. We also created an administrator web app so our client could view/download the survey results.  ? Programming (React, AWS): 90% Management: 10%  ? Delivering user feedback to our client was our main measurable goal Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science Wartburg College September 2009 to May 2013 Skills Android, iOS, Javascript, Swift, Java, Ability to obtain Security Clearance Additional Information Skills/Certifications    Swift (iOS) 3 years ObjC (iOS) 2 years Java (Android) 2 years JavaScript 1 year    Tier II Security Clearance Certified AWS Developer Associate