Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer San Ramon, CA Highly motivated and result oriented Engineer with 3+ years of experience seeking new opportunities in Software Development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Mobile Programming LLC - San Jose, CA October 2018 to Present 1) Client: Samsung  Project: Endless Aisle Shopping Experience V2 for Windows OS:   Endless aisle provides an in-store shopping experience for a Windows tablet device. This application simplifies the process of completing online purchases at samsung.com on Galaxy Book 1 running Windows 10.    • Responsible for developing UI of the Endless Aisle app for Galaxy Book.  • Implemented a Main Menu with 8 touch zones & Submenu screens with a dynamic number of touch zones in a grid.  • Developed login window and end point configuration for each product.  • Worked on WebView styling and UI container.  Skills: Kotlin, JavaFX, IntelliJ, Photoshop, Basecamp, Bitbucket    2) Client: SAP Labs INC., Palo Alto CA  Project: SAP Success Factors Best Practices Automation  SAP HANA Big Data Intelligence rapid deployment solution enables your business to leverage semantic (unstructured), event stream and signal intelligence scenarios.  The solution provides predefined configuration and integration content for your choice of cloud, on premise or hybrid deployments.    • Worked on building automation framework to deliver content to customer instance to reduce real time constraint & human efforts and errors in installation.  • Greatly responsible for logical performance tuning, debugging and optimizing code base.  • Worked on some critical functional changes for business requirements to reduce overhead time.  Skills: Java, SAP JDK, Docker, Oracle, Gradle, Jenkins, GIT, JIRA Software Engineer Funnel Consulting LLC - Dallas, TX July 2017 to September 2018 Project: Serverless on demand Media streaming Web Application    An eLearning platform used to facilitate distant extended learning. Students who register to the academic coursework have access to this website where they can view recorded lectures on different topics, manage assignments, attend short quizzes for self-evaluation, get weekly status updates.    • Developed a serverless web app with video-sharing feature for media streaming of course work using cloud service.  • Developed Login and access functionality to ensure its not being misused by students not registered for the course.  • Responsible for maintaining database for videos in different formats as supported on different device types.  • Participated in design reviews, provided feedback and incorporated this information into test plans and test cases.    Skills: Java, AWS, MySQL, Bootstrap Software Engineer Lash Delivery - Dallas, TX May 2016 to August 2016 Project: Web Application for food & Lash local delivery    An application featured with to door food & alcohol (age restricted) service from a wide range of restaurant. This is one amongst very few apps that is licensed for alcohol  delivery in Texas with in-house delivery personal.    • Developed feature to authenticate card and notify fraud utilizing Braintree API to secure business.  • Implemented nearest distinct restaurants display to make the App blazing fast and reduced redundancy.  • Worked on real time order tracking by enhancing order notification feature with beep sound to notify drivers and store manager about orders for timely services.    Skills: PHP, Laravel, MySQL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Blade, Slack Application Programmer Amba Softwares - Dharwad, Karnataka November 2014 to June 2015 Project: College Web Portal    A website to manage academic and nonacademic activities of the College. This  features automation of Administration management, Students registration unit, Staff Database, Exam metrics management, Subject registration, Staff Payroll management and Co-curricular activities to reduce manual work that otherwise would consumes a lot of time and is prone to human errors.    • Developed and maintained student registration unit to reduce human errors caused by manual paperwork.  • Worked on automating metrics reporting system to show statistics of Exam results to monitor class performance.  • Worked on automation of subject enrolment process confirming the University requirements rules.    Skills: Java, HTML5, CSS3, MySQL, Flash Education Master's in Computer Science University of Texas - Dallas, TX August 2015 to May 2017 Bachelor's in Computer Science Basaveshwar Engineering College - Bagalkot, Karnataka April 2010 to June 2014 Skills Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Eclipse, Java, Intellij idea, Javafx, Spring, Gradle, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Laravel, Python, Ruby, Flash, Mvc, Http, Tomcat, Git, HTML 5, CSS, SAP Hana, Kotlin, Linux, Windows, Postman, Bitbucket, adobe photoshop Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/panchamigr