Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software & Wordpress Developer Austin, TX I am a very motivate individual who loves making connections, travelling and coding. My goal is to find a company that allows travel or remote work, were I can assist with my skills and help both of our interests grow. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer General Motors - Austin, TX July 2018 to Present I have helped 2 teams with their angular and node applications as well as worked on some personal projects meant to save the company/teams work hours.Some projects are as follows.    1. Data Generator: I noticed that QA teams were spending many hours and days to create test data sets for particular situations. Thus I created a tool that could be used by all levels of technical skills that would generate hundreds of thousands of data sets based on an object template that was structured in excel. Technologies: AngularJs, JavaScript and NodeJs.    2. Onboarding: I was tasked with streamlining the onboarding process for users that needed access to customer data. I created a workflow that included a form that would store the inputted data into a SharePoint list, email the admins and export a pdf.    3. Customer Dashboard: There were many data silos that had limited access, or that staff was not aware of. This tool focused on dealerships being able to see a consolidated visual representation of a customer’s information, so that a salesperson was able to help a customer better. I was tasked with creating and using existing Rest API’s and translating the data into charts, and general summaries. Technologies: NodeJs, Mysql and Angular 6,    4. Dealership Platform: I helped with development for multiple releases of software that was both front facing for worldwide users and dealerships. The tool was a CMS that created and controlled dealership websites. Technologies: .NET, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJs, Angular 7    5. Customer 360 Dashboard: Used as a system health check for my teams many systems, keeping track of errors, api calls through many systems. Turned all data into a visual representation that could give aide in solving downtime issues. Technologies: Nodejs, Mysql and Angular 6, Freelance Wordpress Developer NA - Austin, TX July 2019 to December 2019 I have experience working with different themes and builders, making sites based off user requirements. My freelance clients span more than 10 states and different niches. Helper/ Programmer JMA FireAlarms March 2013 to October 2013 Programmed commercial fire alarm systems,  • Set up IP cameras,  • Made building plans using AutoCAD.  • Also helped with labor work such as setting up wiring for devices. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University - College Station, TX Skills HTML 5 (4 years), CSS3 (2 years), Java (4 years), C++ (2 years), C (1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year), Photography (2 years), Angular 5 (1 year), Wordpress (1 year), Node (1 year), Restful Api's (1 year), Bootstrap (2 years), Javascript, Git, CSS, pivotal cloud foundry (1 year), Wordpress (Less than 1 year), Angular js (1 year), Jquery, MYSQL Links http://justintgonzalez.com