.NET Developer .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> .NET Developer - Taazaa Inc Chicago, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience .NET Developer Taazaa Inc - Hudson, OH July 2018 to Present Project: Customer Relationship Management (CRM) & Sales Process Automation (SPA)    Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and Sales Process Automation (SPA) software suites are two key factors into driving more customers to site and retaining those customers for their future needs. CRM software provides the ability to keep constant communication with customers that allows for them to provide feedback to improve the customer service. Taazaa is proud to provide CRM solutions through platforms that include SugarCRM, Salesforce, and more. The SPA provides a seamless transition between the stages of a life cycle of a sale. These stages range from email campaigns to customer retention.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing applications in C# and .NET Framework 4.5/4.0 to meet the business requirements using Visual Studio 2017.  ? Used Angular 4 Services to retrieve access and manipulate the data on the server. And used Dependency injection for injecting various Angular Services to Controllers to enable AJAX calls.  ? Implemented Two-Way Data-binding in Angular 4 to handle the automatic synchronization of data between the model and view components for application.  ? Created responsive web design integrating JavaScript with Angular 4, media queries and ensured site design integrity and quality control consistency throughout the project's lifecycle.  ? Used ASP.NET MVC 4.5 Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the mode.  ? Implemented Code First and used LINQ to Entities to massage the Data and optimized the Query Expressions.  ? Used Entity Framework's Code First approach to create database and tables as objects along with LINQ to handle the communication with the database and to perform CRUD operations.  ? Created Inbound and outbound WCF services / Web Services to integrate with Email client and support applications using C#.NET  ? Implemented WCF services and better logging exception management support to help in the premature detection of new problems.  ? Worked on WCF Web Services using C# to authenticate lookup and retrieve the data from database.  ? Designed and created the restful web service using MVC 4.0 Web API and used JSON to read request and return response of the web service.  ? Created and maintained database objects like complex Stored Procedures, Cursors, and Tables, Views, User Defined Functions, in SQL Server 2016 for inserting/Updating/Deleting the data into the relational tables.  ? Used T-SQL in order to design and tune T-SQL to interface with the Database and other applications in the most efficient manner and created stored Procedures for the business logic using T-SQL.  ? Performed End-to-End testing by using NUnit, troubleshooting, debugging, integration testing, regression testing and performance testing and analyzed the results to justify validation.  Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2017, C#.NET 4.5/4.7, ASP.NET 4.5, MVC (5.0) LINQ, Entity Framework 6, T-SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Server 2016, WCF, WPF, Web API, Angular 4, JavaScript, jQuery, Redux, IIS, Azure, AccuRev, AxoSoft, NUnit .NET Developer Molina HealthCare Inc - Long Beach, CA July 2017 to June 2018 Project: Appeals Grievances and Denials Application (AnG)    Appeals Grievances and Denials Application (AnG) deals with tracking and managing appeals, grievances and complaints from healthcare members and providers. Denial module of the application manages authorization denials from QNXT application and link them to appeals. Application is integrated with Cincom Eloquence Tool for seamless letter generation. Application has front-end which provides user-friendly interfaces.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Participated on implementing the project activities as per the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and implemented activities by using Agile/SCRUM methodologies involving creation of product backlogs and iterations for design, coding and delivery.  ? Developed Medicare and Medicaid (Healthcare) application 'Appeals, Grievances and denials' using N-Tier architecture utilizing C#, MVC4, Entity Framework 5/6, LINQ, Web API, HTML5, CSS3, Knockout Js, Angular JS and Bootstrap UI.  ? Leveraged Angular JS resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  ? Created custom directives for re- usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads, etc.).  ? Used Dependency injection for injecting various Angular services to Angular Controllers to enable AJAX calls.  ? Also Implemented AngularJS Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server.  ? Created AngularJS Routing to connect different controllers to the views which allows the single-page application (SPA).  ? Used AJAX for Partial Page Updating, Invisible Data Retrieval, Constant Updating, Smooth Interfaces, Simplicity and Rich Functionality.  ? Created Entity classes, relationships between entity classes using Entity Framework Code first approach to manage relational data as objects and used LINQ to massage the data and perform CRUD operations.  ? Worked on improving performance and avoiding SQL injections by using LINQ expressions or Lambda expressions on multiple data sources.  ? Developed easy to maintain RESTful Document generation services utilizing Web APIto generate simple to complex (PDF/WORD/TIFF) document while providing integration capability to enterprise content management tool File Net.  ? Involved in Data Modeling, Database Design on SQL Server and proficient in using T-SQL for developing complex stored procedures, Triggers, Tables, Views, User-Defined Functions, SQL joins, Index and query writing.  ? Implemented Unit Testing through NUnit and created test cases for all functions used in the application.  ? Hosting of Windows WEB API's, Asp.NET applications in IIS and creating Cloud Instance using AWS for deployment in product environment.  ? Utilized the TFS source control software to keep track of new and past versions of code written in my application.  Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, C#, MVC 4/5, Web API 2.0, Entity Framework 5/6, LINQ, Angular JS 1.6, Bootstrap 3.0 UI, Telerik UI, Kendo UI, HTML 5, CSS 3, SQL Server 2012, NUnit, Microsoft Visual Studio 2015, Team Foundation Server (TFS), SSIS, SSRS Software Engineer Green Petal Ventures - IN August 2015 to July 2016 Worked on e-commerce website and the website was all about organic and natural products. Organic products with those regular one's the same way the look of website and its feel contributes a lot to the buyers who come online on our organic product store.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) starting from Requirements gathering and performing object-oriented analysis, design, implementation and development using Agile methodology with daily scrums.  ? Developed the application using N-Tier architecture using MVC 5, Entity Framework 5/6, LINQ, Web API, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2, Typescript and Bootstrap UI.  ? Used Dependency injection for injecting various Angular services to Angular Controllers to enable AJAX calls. Also Implemented Angular 2 Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server.  ? Designed new interface screens and implemented application logic under ASP.NET MVC and effectively created custom routes and added them to ASP.NET MVC routes collection.  ? Responsible for designing and developing the UI using Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  ? Developed the client-side views on angular 2 and typescript.  ? Created/Modified Angular 2.0 components, by using Typescript we create the bigger projects and converts to JS files to modify or creating new JS files  ? Used jQuery and typescript for the development of the UI.  ? Used Entity Framework's Code First approach to create database and tables as objects along with LINQ to handle the communication with the database and to perform CRUD operations.  ? Created various RESTful services using WEB API to return serialized JSON data which are later consumed through Angular 2 services.  ? Created various web Services, WCF services and consumed those services from the client UI by adding web reference for the services.  ? Created and maintained database schema, tables, views, stored procedures and indexes for better performance using SQL Server.  ? Developed reports using complex formulas and to query the database to generate different types of ad-hoc reports using SSRS.  ? Utilized the TFS source control software to keep track of new and past versions of code written in my application.  ? Involved in working on test driven development (TDD), Unit testing, System testing and User Acceptance test using NUnit testing framework and responsible for writing test scripts and scenarios throughout the project.  Environment: ASP.NET MVC, .NET Framework 4.5, Web API, C#, ADO.NET, XML, JavaScript, Typescript, Angular 2, Entity Framework 5/6, AJAX, CSS 3, HTML 5 IIS, TFS, SQL Server 2014/2012/2008, SSRS, Agile, NUnit, WCF Software Developer Emanar Technologies - Gujarat, IN November 2014 to July 2015 Worked on 2 projects. One among them was the company website where we came up with the amazing web pages functionality. Another project was real time inventory mobile application for which my team was responsible for handling the admin panel.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of SDLC including Designing, Programming, Testing and Documentation.  ? Used C# advanced concepts like Automatic properties, Anonymous types, Lambda Expressions, Extension Methods.  ? Used Web Services to fetch data required and work accordingly, also used the concepts of Serialization.  ? Used LINQ to build set of operations, parameters and expressions (Binary, Unary, Lambda) during execution (aimed at "Querying") a set of data from SQL Server.  ? Used SOAP to implement Web Services and consumed and published XML web services in the application.  ? Implemented business logic/rules using WCF services and integrated with the UI components.  ? Developed Entity framework-based database access layer using ADO.NET and Entity Framework.  ? Developed module which deals with validating user, changing passwords and searching of information depending upon priority of user in site using ASP.NET  ? Used the ASP.NET State Management techniques like Session State, View State to retain the values between the page's transactions, where Session is managed in out Proc mode.  ? Written JavaScript code for validating the simple control instead of sending them to the server side which was degrading the performance of the web pages.  ? Extensively used Web Services, SOAP, XML, XSL to expose the reports to facilitate information sharing.  ? Generated various reports using Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), developed reports by pulling data from various sources and presenting in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and used Datasets for the SSRS reports.  ? Worked with Product management on product feature requirements definition and refinement. Used TFS for Agile Planning and collaboration.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration testing and Regression testing by applying test cases.  Environment: Visual Studio 2012 C#, SOAP, ASP.NET 4.5, Webservices, ADO.NET, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, LINQ to SQL, IIS 7.5, AJAX, XML, SQL Server 2008, Team Foundation Server, Unit Testing, SSRS Education Master's Degree in Information Technology & Management in Information Technology & Management Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL 2018 Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology Gujarat Technological University 2014 Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, Javascript, Bootstrap, Wcf, Reporting tools, Svn, Vb.net, Xml, Asp, Iis, Asp.net, Web services, Ado, Ado.net, Ado.net entity framework, Sql server, Sql server 2012