Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - New York Public Library Brooklyn, NY Determined college graduate with a passion for both front-end and backend software. I am currently looking to further my knowledge of development and apply both my education background along with my work experience to assist in the creation of future software systems and applications. Work Experience Software Developer New York Public Library - Manhattan, NY 2018 to Present Developed an on-demand security dashboard in Python and Django to retrieve infrastructure statistics using various APIs and databases to show the growth and change in security over time.  ? Collaborated with the development team to implement new algorithm changes to both the webpage and mobile application in order to speed up an array lookup time. These changes allow the user to search for new books and add them to their personal online library.  ? Containerized multiple production repositories using Docker and then deployed them on AWS Elastic Container Service while taking into consideration security groups such as open ports and accessibility.  ? Delivered software using Java data structures (arrays and stacks) to allow multiple users to simultaneously transfer petabytes worth of data while maintaining file integrity and managed the backend infrastructure such as CPU and computational power. Software Developer Intern St. John's University September 2017 to November 2017 Designed an android application using the SDLC waterfall method which included features such as a notepad and calendar in order to eliminate the need of paper.  ? Created Software Requirements Specifications to document the abilities of the application. Implemented and programmed the application using Android Studio.  ? Performed Unit Testing on each part of the system to ensure that it is working correctly. Database Developer/Camp Counselor Liberty Avenue Middle School - Brooklyn, NY 2016 to 2017 Maintained and updated camper's personal information through an MS SQL Server Database.  ? Provided guidance and supervision in order to ensure the safety and welfare of all participants.  ? Addressed parents at the end of the day and reported any incidents that occurred. Education Master's in Computer Science St John's University-New York - New York, NY June 2019 to Present Bachelor of Science in Computer Science St. John's University - Queens, NY 2019 Skills AWS (1 year), Java (1 year), MS SQL Server (2 years), SQL (2 years), SQL Server (2 years), PHP, Git, Javascript, Android, MySQL, HTML 5, C++ (2 years), CSS (2 years), Python (3 years), Javascript (2 years), Docker (1 year), Firebase (Less than 1 year), Node.js (2 years) Links https://github.com/christophersingh https://www.linkedin.com/in/christopher-singh-48529b164/ Awards Summa Cum Laude 2019-05 Graduated rank 1 in the Science, Technology, Engineering and Math Department at St. John's University. Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) Present Assessments Data Analysis — Familiar June 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zg310zmbwa38osuy Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fitupmdoydgkjo9a Email — Familiar June 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ubv0qvuqvfzzi5-g Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS:  Java, JavaScript, Python, PHP, MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server, REST API, Bash Scripting, AWS, Docker, C++, Windows, MAC, Linux, CSS, HTML, GitHub, XML, Unit Testing, UML, Cisco Technology, MS Office