Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - SUN WEST MORTGAGE COMPANY Buena Park, CA Software Engineer with 3+ years of strong IT experience in design, development and maintenance of Java based  applications. Proficient working with Windows and Linux based environment, working and deploying web  applications on various servers. Experienced working with scripting languages like JavaScript and jQuery for  client-side validations. Writing SQL queries and procedures for preparing performance reports and data saving. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer SUN WEST MORTGAGE COMPANY - Buena Park, CA September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing software for the company-based loan management system SunSoft and See My  Loan Status  ? Implementing business logics of mortgage industry using software language JAVA  ? Designing and developing application using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery technology  ? Working with JSF framework, implementing application level, page level security.  ? Implementing client-side validations using frontend technology like JavaScript and jQuery  ? Using Direct Web Remoting to make AJAX calls from JavaScript functions to Java class method  ? Writing and executing SQL scripts, sequences, indexes, triggers and queries  ? Maintaining and implementing changes to the Oracle database  ? Executing changes in MOL, a company-based software used as an interface  ? Using GitHub as code management system for maintaining code repositories  ? Executing checkouts and revisions of software modules to prepare for production server.  ? Revise previously implemented code and fixing bugs present in the system.  ? Gather business requirements from internal clients like loan officers and processors  ? Attend QC and build reports meetings and providing suggestions  ? Updating task logs on software journal meant for developers to keep track  ? Completing task on given development ETA and closing tasks in JIRA  ? Using stack overflow and other websites to fix debugging issues.  ? Integrating third party services from government websites like HUD.gov, parsing XML data  ? Providing live support to clients once a week  ? Implementing functionality to prepare Excel reports integrating API with JAVA querying data from database for daily status of loans. Junior Java Developer HIGHFINCH SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS - Cypress, CA April 2016 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in maintenance of website by adhering to the Coding Standards  ? Working in an Agile Methodology environment.  ? Performing all tasks from UI design and implementation to writing code for various features.  ? Working on XML and JSON parsing.  ? Integrating Spring Core with ORM technologies like Hibernate.  ? Front end design using JSP and business logic in Servlets  ? Involved in writing JavaScript functions for front-end validations.  ? Stored procedures and triggers were developed for business rules  ? Performed unit tests and integration tests of the application.  ? Participated in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the application.  ? Involved in designing UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Event diagrams, Activity diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Microsoft products like Visio and Access.  ? Developed the Login, Policy and Claims Screens for customers using AJAX, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Education MASTER OF SCIENCE in INFORMATION SYSTEMS ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY - Normal, IL 2013 to 2015 BACHELOR OF ENGINEERING in ELECTRONICS AND TELECOMM RAJIV GANDHI TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY - Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 2009 to 2013 Skills Api, C++, Design patterns, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Scripting, Software development, Visio, Xml, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, CSS, Git, HTML 5, MYSQL Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/preeti-tripathi-a5513075