C# API developer C# API <span class="hl">developer</span> C# API developer - LivePerson LLC Arlington, VA • Over 5 Years of software development experience in Development and Implementation of SOAP and REST APIs using ASP.NET C#, MVC, .NET Core technologies.  • Experience in working on Core .NET with solid background and working knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Exception handling, Multithreading and Collections  • Experience in developing Multi-tier enterprise level web applications using various C#, ASP.NET technologies including RESTful service and Micro Services.  • Bachelor Degree of Software Engineering.  • Master Degree of IT specialized cybersecurity.  • Good communication, interpersonal, analytical and organizational skills with ability to address, analyze and resolve diverse and complex issues, expertise in problem solving and troubleshooting ability.  • Design and develop Web Applications using ASP.NET MVC 5 and C# that used by internal users.  • Expertise in developing SharePoint solution using .NET Core, Visual Studio, SQL, SharePoint Designer, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Lync PowerShell, and web application.  • Good at Debug and Troubleshoot issues in the existing SharePoint applications.  • Creating consumed ASP.NET Web services and implemented RESTFUL for service layer.  • Experience in Analysis, Design, Code Reviews, Unit testing and Integration Testing.  • Hands on experience with various configuration management software such as Clear Case, Version Control using GIT, Concurrent Version System (CVS), Subversion (SVN) and Visual Source Safe (VSS), Jenkins used for the automatic build process and tools like Clear Quest.  • Experience with databases like DB2, Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, Sybase and MS Access.  • Experience in creating complex SQL Queries and SQL tuning, writing PL/SQL blocks like stored procedures, Functions, Cursors, Index, triggers and packages.  Technical Background: Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience C# API developer LivePerson LLC December 2018 to Present Project: G-Suite Calendar Reporting System, WhatsApp usage reporting System, Ultipro API, Jira API, ServiceNow API.  Responsibilities:  • Developed GSuite Calendar report System All employees Event list, Attendee list with report monthly weekly, average meeting duration and etcetera.  • The GSuite API using service account with five scope using with .NET Core with C# programming language. The API's main function is pulling data from google database then save our production database then we developed Power Bi report window.  • The All employees and Calendar information is more than three hundred thousand rows each API Call. The first version of API calls took like 6 hours but I improved the API like ten times faster than first version.  • WhatsApp Usage report API is fulling data from Facebook. Using Facebook account with WhatsApp business account. Our company uses around 40+ WhatsApp account with 80+ phone numbers from WhatsApp. Our company needs those phone numbers every day and every months usage information needs for billing.  • Designed and Developed API is .NET Core 2.1, OAuth 2, Token, X509, SQL Server 2014, and JQuery1.11.  • Performed design using Object Oriented (OO) principles and created various abstract and concrete classes and interfaces. Followed agile principles during design and development activities.  • Developed extension methods for the Web Grid, and dynamically mapped the columns to data source using reflection.  • Used delegates dynamically pass the method to execute based upon user Input.  • Used AJAX helper methods for asynchronous calls.  • Environment: .NET Core 2.1, MVC 5, Restful API, SQL SERVER 2014, .NET Framework 4.7, IIS 10, Windows Server 2012 R2, X509 Certificate, Token, OAuth 2, Bit bucket, PowerShell. C# Senior Developer National Amusement Park May 2013 to January 2015 Project: Developed Online and onsite ticketing Systems.  Responsibilities:  • Developed application Architecture for the multitier Imaging and Workflow Application, which is communicating with various Application and database Servers to search, index, re-index, upload, delete, update.  • Met the deadlines, and successfully delivered project there by adding tremendous efficiency to imaging and workflow pipeline for expedited processing.  • Designed and Developed Web application using Razor views, Model, and controllers using MVC5, ASP.Net 4.5, EF 6.0, SQL Server 2010, and JQuery1.11.  • Developed User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Performed design using Object Oriented (OO) principles and created various abstract and concrete classes and interfaces. Followed agile principles during design and development activities.  • Developed extension methods for the Web Grid, and dynamically mapped the columns to data source using reflection.  • Used delegates dynamically pass the method to execute based upon user Input.  • Used AJAX helper methods for asynchronous calls.  • Environment: ASP.NET, MVC 5, WCF, WEB API, SQL SERVER 2010, .NET Framework 4.5, HTMLS5/CSS3, JQUERY, AJAX, HTML/DHTML, IIS, Windows Server 2012 R2 C# Software Developer MCS ELECTRONICS March 2012 to May 2013 Project: ERP project I worked on POS module. That POS module work online and offline. Client side work on own SQLite database. When its Online that client module transferred every single data.  Responsibilities:    ? Experience in full-life-cycle development of software's using Object Oriented Programming/ Methodologies (OOPs).  ? Responsible for Development, Implementation and Testing of the complete business solution  ? Developed several ASP.NET for MVC tiers to accomplish a variety of functionalities described above with respect to MVC design pattern.  ? Develop the SOAP Web Services in Visual Studio.  ? Maintaining our software in Local server.  ? Created Approval Workflows using InfoPath forms, SharePoint Designer and Visual Studio.Net.  ? Provided support for SharePoint Portal Server and Windows SharePoint Services based intranet sites.  ? Designed and Developed Web application using Razor views, Model, and controllers using MVC5, ASP.Net 4.5, EF 6.0, SQL Server 2010, and JQuery1.11.  ? Used AJAX helper methods for asynchronous calls.  Environment: C#, Asp.NET MVC, XML, SVN, Web Services, REST API, Oracle, PL-SQL Developer, Silver Light. Education Master's Skills .NET (8 years), API (5 years), ASP (8 years), ASP.Net (2 years), C# (5 years), DHTML (1 year), HTML (10+ years), HTML5 (1 year), JavaScript. (3 years), JQUERY (1 year), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (5 years), MS ASP (5 years), MS SQL SERVER (5 years), MVC (5 years), REST (5 years), SOAP (5 years), SQL (5 years), Javascript, WCF, Angular, WPF