MuleSoft Developer MuleSoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> MuleSoft Developer - CVS Health NJ • 5 Years of experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Maintenance and Testing using various methodologies using MuleSoft ESB and Java/J2EE experience in integration.  • Mule ESB experience with implementing service-oriented architecture (SOA) and enterprise application integration (EAI) using Mule Server.  • Implemented Mule flows for different modules, which process files and emails from different systems. Developed Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous mule flows.  • Experience working with GitHub, Bit bucket and VSTS.  • Developed application in Anypoint studio and used RAML 1.0, 0.8 for generating Raml files.  • Participated in deployment of Mule ESB applications using Cloud Hub and Strong experience in Integration using Mule ESB in integrating various third party solutions.  • Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with Connectors, transformations, Routing, AnypointMQ, JMS.  • Deployed web services are tested using SOAPUI tool and Extensively used data weave expressions for transformations in Data weave.  • Used Mule Data Mapper, Custom transformers for mapping flat file structures to Sales force interface structures.  • Used Database & Sales force Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Worked on XML technologies like XML,XSD and Web Services - RESTful and SOAP.  • Effective communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work in team/independently and adapt quickly to new and emerging technologies.  • Experience in Object Oriented Programming in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Support of Web based applications. Experience in creating MUnit Tests. Work Experience MuleSoft Developer CVS Health NJ August 2018 to Present Digital Services and Integration is a segmentation of identities arrived at to provide a personalized experience that is most relevant to the context of the interaction. DSI identification is a combination of 1) The static attributes of the identity like the job role, industry etc. 2) Historic attributes from previous interaction trends .3) Current interaction attributes. The components 2 and 3 makes DSI segmentation a dynamic concept.  In DSI Several modules are there  i. Persona  ii. Hiro  iii. EUO  iv. Service Now    Responsibilities:  • Involving in the end-end development of the Project by understanding the existing application functionality and enhancing it with respect to the client requirement.  • Deployment of project into cloud/on-premise.  • Using Postman for mocking and unit testing of mule flows.  • Troubleshooting of Mule Troubleshooting ESB by using debugging mode.  • Creating SAPI's using RAML and developed flows using APIKIT Router.  • Review, to the extent possible, changes in code and the environment that will affect system performance.  • Creating Flows, Sub Flows, Exception strategy and Data Weave transformation in Mule configuration.  • Worked on Batch processing and created batch jobs.  • Using Bitbucket as the source version control tool for code operations such as check-in, check-outs, merge, compare, clone, etc.,  • Experience with Mule API Gateway and Mule APM.  • Worked with Mule Any point API Platform on designing the RAML for implementing REST API's and used API Gateway as a proxy service.  • Implemented Security Mechanisms like Security Certificates, Key Exchange, Encryption, Description, encoding and decoding  • Exposed RESTful web services in Mule and invoked them using Postman.  • Consumed SOAP Web Services using WSDL Files and transformed them into appropriate format.    Environment: Java 1.6, Mule soft ESB, Any point studio, SOAP, REST, OAuth, DataWeave, DataMapper, MUnit, Sales force, Hibernate, GitHub, CloudHub, ActiveMQ, RAML, JSON, MUnit, Log4j,JUnit,WSDL,CVS. MuleSoft Developer CITI Group NY April 2017 to June 2018 TotalConduct is a Surveillance platform that leverages predictive and behavioral analytics to generate high quality targeted alerts by combining high quality of signals of positive and negative behavioral patterns from trade transactions and communications. TotalConduct sourced trade data from Ocean, ecomm and market alerts from Big data and Apama systems, electronic communications from the Bloomberg message and Bloomberg exchange, referential data from Master Central systems, employee referential information from HR and Global Directory, restriction data from GCS and apply behavioral profiles to new and existing surveillances in order to measure proximity between actors in the firm and the consequences of their activity.  TotalConduct Case Manager UX allows users to search alerts, analyzes the highlights generated from data science, override if required and apply workflow actions.    Responsibilities:  • Created Mule ESB flows using Any point Studio, performed payload transformation & developed middleware frameworks for routing the messages to appropriate systems.  • Used Data Weave extensively to do data transformations along with custom Java Classes.  • Create batch processing for performing ETL operations from SFDC to downstream systems.  • Used ActiveMQ for messaging service in the applications.  • Integration of Mule ESB system while utilizing MQ Series, Http, File system and SFTP transports.  • Used Data Base Connectors to connect with MS-Access using Mule ESB.  • Created flows to perform CRUD operations on MS-Access.  • Used MULE Batch Processing to process records from Database.  • Utilized various connectors such as FTP, HTTP, File, SMTP, SFTP, Servlet, Quartz, and Database in different workflows.  • Implemented choice, global, custom exception handling mechanisms based on the business requirement in Mule ESB.  • Extensively used Mule Debugger to debug the XML Flows and wrote Munit Test Cases using features like mocking, verify call, and assert conditions based different sets of data.  • Migrated Existing Java Code implemented using Spring Controllers into Mule Flows to be invoked by the UI.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Development.    Environment: Mule soft Any Point Studio, Cloud hub, Any Point Platform, RAML, Connectors, APIKIT Router, Data mapper, Data weave, Sales Force, Windows 2003, SQL and MSSQL. MuleSoft Developer Webster Bank - New Britain, CT August 2016 to January 2017 Webster Bank is fast growing bank In CT and NY area. This is webster bank online application to create new account or managing existing accounts .We are making existing application as responsive  • Mule ESB experience in implementing Service - Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) using Mule Server 3.x.  • Extensively worked on Any Point Studio and Mule Integration Platform and used it to interface application services by utilizing message routing, data transformation and service creation utilities.  • Hands on experience in MuleSoft Expression Language (MEL) to access payload data, properties and variable of Mule Message Flow.  • Participated in deployment of Mule ESB applications using Cloud Hub and Strong experience in Integration using Mule ESB in integrating various third party solutions.  • Responsible for writing application code & development activities for large projects especially in a SOA environment and Reliability Patters with MuleSoft ESB.  • Technical experience in the areas of Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Object Oriented Design (OOD) using UML and SDLC of distributed applications. Hugely experienced in using MuleSoft that integrates APIs, databases and SaaS applications and deployed MuleSoft applications to Cloud Hub and on premise servers.  • Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB. Have an experience working MULE API manager and RAML.  • Utilized MuleSoft features like Data weave, API designer and various connectors to ensure robust and loosely coupled integration layer every time.  • Extensive experience on Agile, Waterfall methodologies.  • Responsible to develop RESTful and SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with connectors, transformations, Routing, Active MQ, JMS.  • Widely experienced with Mule ESB in designing and implementing core platform components for API/Services Gateway as well as other technological cross-cutting capabilities and also a contributor to Mule ESB open-source.  • Created Mule ESB based tooling suite for handling message transitioning, validation, enrichment and routing to upstream and downstream entity data consumers.  • Extensive experience in SOA and experience in developing Web services, WSDL, SOAP, and JAXB/JAXP.  • Had an experience in working with Anypoint studio of Mule ESB.  • Integrated different systems that includes File Upload, Data Base, SAP, Sales Force, Web services and spring services etc. using Mule ESB.  • Have written MUnit test cases to validate Mule Flows.    Environment: Mule soft Any Point Studio, Cloud hub, Any Point Platform, RAML, Connectors, APIKIT Router, Data mapper, Data weave, Sales Force, Windows 2003, SQL and MSSQL. Software Engineer Bees Synergy Systems Pvt January 2010 to December 2011 Portcullis Manager at start-up interacts and loads the data from database. It creates task forScheduler and stores that data in cache. Further, it verifies the portcullis state and the Cat-.Flap. If a new record is added into the database through Admin UI, Portcullis manager gets an alert from JMS PUB/SUB. This JMS alert is acknowledged by inserting a record in theDatabase. Portcullis Manager interacts with the database and gets the new task informationand adds it to the scheduler to schedule the same accordingly. It also returns recurring outageData to the Portcullis Dialog Model.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and creation of GUI screens using JSP, Servlets and HTML  • Extensively used JDBC to interact with the databases  • Involved in deploying the application in BEA Weblogic 6.1 server  • Client side Validations have been done using JavaScript  • Involved in Manual Testing of the website  • CVS is used for Version control  Environment: JDK 1.3, Servlets, DB2, JSP, BEA Weblogic 6.1,Angular JS, XML, CVS, HTML, CSS, Javascript. Education Bachelor in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU 2010 Skills Git, Svn, Xml, Java, Jms, Http, Smtp, Soap, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Oracle, Sql, Tomcat, Web services, Vm, Rest, Apache, Collections Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Java, C, SQL, MS SQL  Core Java Concepts Collections, Generics, Multithreading, Serialization, Exception Handling.  Web Services SOAP, WSDL  Web Application Servers Apache Tomcat  Databases SQL Server 2012/2010/2008  Messaging Systems JMS, VM Queues  XML technologies XML, XSD  Protocols SOAP, HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP, REST  SVN Tools GIT, Bit Bucket  Tools MUnit  ESB Mule ESB, Oracle ESB