Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - StubHub Oakland, CA Work Experience Software Developer StubHub 2018 to Present - Designing and Implementing a diagnostic tool with new technologies and frameworks and understanding company procedures for better production support  • Participate in requirements gathering and design meetings with clients.  • Work cross-functionally to resolve issues and provide production support  • Work with application teams to help them implement the solution.  • Work in collecting issues and develop a diagnostic tool to triage issues.  Technologies: Node.js, Zendesk, Jira, Confluence, Visual Studio, ExpressJS, GitHub, Java, J2EE, Splunk, Postman    ACADEMIC PROJECTS  • Hotel Reservation: A hotel management and reservation system providing user, booking, and visitor management. Used Spring, REST Web Services, RBAC, Spring Security, Hibernate, JPA, Spring Integration, and AMQP Messaging.  • Planning App: A user task and life planning application with the ability to add, delete, or check off plans. Used NodeJS, ExpressJS, Angular4, Auth0, Mongoose, and MongoDB.  • Scheduling System: A scheduling system capable of managing faculty, students, and courses, with the ability to auto-generate and track schedules by availability and preferences. Used Java, Spring Boot, Hibernate, JSP, JPA, MySQL, Mockito, Maven, Git, Agile (Scrum), and Heroku.  • Banking System: A banking system providing features such as new personal account creation, new company checking or savings account creation, deposits, withdrawals interest, and statement generation. Used Spring Framework, Hibernate, jQuery, AJAX, GIT, JSP, JPA, Mockito, and MySQL. Software Developer FRATELLI COMPUTER SERVICES - Asmara, ER 2011 to 2014 Asmara, Eritrea • 2011-2014  High-tech consulting firm focused on IT innovation and service delivery for private and public sector clients.    Software Developer  Drove design, development, and implementation of new applications, features, and enhancements throughout the software development lifecycle.    Tasks:  • Forged and nurtured collaborative, communicative relationships with clients around requirements gathering.  • Analyzed requirements to determine technical specifications.  • Took an instrumental role in code development, analysis, and optimization.  • Authored stored procedures and functions.  • Created navigation, menus, and other user interface elements.  • Conducted module and application testing.  • Deployed to test and production environments.  • Trained and supported end users. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Enterprise Architecture Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA 2019 Bachelor of Science in Microbial Biology in Microbial Biology University of California Berkeley - Berkeley, CA 2014 to 2016 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Eritrea Institute of Technology - Asmara, ER 2011 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Jsp, Visual studio, Application development, Design patterns, Javascript, Svn, User interface design, Interface design, Xml, Ajax, Tomcat, Web services, Mongodb, Git (3 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/merhawi-teklezghi Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  Java Programming • Web Application Development • Desktop Application Design • Requirements Management Technical Specifications • User Interface Design • Database Programming & Development • Testing    Languages: Java / J2EE  Web: JSP, Servlet, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, XML, HTML5, CSS3  Web Services: RESTFUL, SOAP  Web/App servers: Apache Tomcat, IBM Glassfish  Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate, JPA, Angular, ExpressJS, NodeJS,  Databases: MS SQL Server, MySQL, SQL, MongoDB, Postgres  Design Patterns: Abstract Factory, Proxy, Facade, Decorator, Adapter, Visitor, Observer  SDLC: Waterfall, Agile (Scrum)  Tools: NetBeans, Eclipse, STS, Visual Studio, Sublime Text, GitHub SVN, StarUML, JUnit, Heroku  Platforms: Linux (Ubuntu), Windows, Mac OS