League Coordinator League Coordinator League Coordinator Madison Heights, MI Work Experience League Coordinator National Flag Football - Bloomfield Hills, MI January 2017 to May 2019 Oversaw operations for flag football programs across nine locations in Georgia and Florida, managing all facets  including identifying locations, networking with stakeholders, marketing, managing inventory, and training 15  employees to drive program success.  • Exercised marketing expertise to design flyers with the goal of engaging prospective players to drive enrollment in upcoming programs.  • Managed website, social media pages - including Instagram and Facebook - and email campaigns to increase brand  awareness and engagement.  • Developed and utilized heat maps to identify opportunities for prospective player engagement and distribute flyers  accordingly, augmenting campaign success and reach.  • Identified and implemented process improvements to drive program operations and player satisfaction.  o Moved team to new location to prevent absences of game officials.  o Recruited Pay to Play players to act as officials, utilizing relationship building and networking.  • Demonstrated negotiation and crisis management skills to navigate tense situations. Software Design & Developer HMC LLC - Mount Pleasant, MI January 2015 to August 2017 Intern)  • Integrated an encrypted layer of the MyMail Application in C#, utilizing Visual Studio 15 to provide a secure  application for user email.  • Worked remotely in collaboration with a team of six on an agile software development project.  • Regularly performed integration testing to ensure functionality of environment. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Central Michigan University Skills Marketing, Marketing strategy, Brand management, Networking Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  ? Social Media Management ? Project Management ? Hootsuite  ? Brand Management ? Networking Strategy ? Web & Flyer Design  ? Marketing Strategy ? Trend Analysis ? Team Leadership