Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - DTE Energy Work Experience Software Developer DTE Energy - Detroit, MI January 2018 to Present ? Understanding and translating business and technical requirements; develop, document, and implement solution designs  ? Identifying, troubleshooting, and resolving problems with reporting systems and processes  ? Optimizing applications for maximum speed and scalability  ? Building and maintaining custom web applications, report applications and interactive dashboards managing the technical aspects using data analytical tools (Power BI, Tableau, Qlik ..) and authoring and scripting languages (PHP, JAVA, HTML/CSS, Javascript, JQuery, and API's)  ? Developing automation tools for department engineers that assist in system operations  ? Development (design, implement, test and debug) of algorithms for core and/or application specific software requirements for outage  management system  ? Creating test plans and use cases then performing validation of algorithms and developed tools  ? Building the infrastructure required for optimal extraction, transformation, and loading of data from a wide variety of data  sources using SQL and Power Query  ? Design and implement strategies for operational support including monitoring, performance analysis, load testing, debugging, security and backup of existing systems  ? Reading and writing complex and solid SQL queries in relational database management systems for inserting and updating data Software Analyst Co-op DTE Energy - Detroit, MI May 2017 to December 2017 Developed and assisted in the development of a statement of requirements for software development projects  ? Developed and directed software system testing and validation procedures, programming, and documentation  ? Used multiple modern technologies for full-stack development  ? Continuously improved the quality of codes for maximum speed and scalability  ? Created architecture models and explaining complex business ideas in a simplified manner  ? Worked in an Agile/Scrum environment and participating in daily standups  ? Tested and maintained software products to ensure strong functionality and optimization  ? Interacted with multi-site team members during software product life cycle for requirement analysis, design, coding, integration  and testing Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Wayne State University - Detroit, MI Skills C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, JSON, PHP, PYTHON, XML, DATABASE, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, JAVA, jQuery, SHAREPOINT, TABLEAU, CSS, POWER BI, LINUX, LINUX/UNIX, HTML 5