Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Sunnyvale, CA Software Developer with knowledge of the software development lifecycle process, including requirements gathering, design, coding, testing, debugging, documenting, and maintenance. Supportive and enthusiastic team player dedicated to streamlining processes and efficiently resolving project issues. Work Experience Software Developer Genova Technologies January 2019 to May 2019 Dexter Laundry Inc.  Technologies: Django Python, AWS, Angular, Rest API  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven development and pair-based programming.  • Responsible for writing, debugging and maintaining production level code in a continuous integration environment for scaling users need and UI optimization.  • Used AWS EC2 instances along with Amazon RDS for setting up different environments in different stages of testing.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular, jQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS for better appearance and feel.  • Actively collaborated with a mobile application development Android and IOS for implementing all the features on the web onto the mobile application.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Actively participated in scrum and sprint planning and efficiently used JIRA for bug tracking and maintenance. Software Developer Genova Technologies November 2018 to January 2019 Varimax Systems LLC.  Technologies: Flask Python, AWS, Rest API  • Implemented new feature in the application for Imagery downloads from new Satellite group.  • Parsed XML documents using Python scripts and used them in filtering out required data.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base.  • AWS hands on experience, handled application hosted on Elastic Beanstalk. Implemented methods and functionalities adapted from various API using Flask framework.  • Experienced in all project phases using Agile Methodology.  • Management and execution against project plans and delivery commitments; Manage the day-to-day activities of the engineering team within an Agile/Scrum environment  • Used Git to manage Codebase. Full Stack Developer University of Cincinnati Libraries September 2017 to October 2018 Technologies: ReactJs, Bootstrap, JavaScript, D3Js  • Bootstrap and JavaScript were used as front-end technologies to customize the look and feel  • Designed interactive UI for web pages using HTML, CSS, and React  • Developed new UI components using React, visualizations with D3js and experienced in troubleshooting the unnecessary rendering effects and improving performance  • Involved in developing UI using Spring MVC framework, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX and AngularJS.  • Configured the deployment descriptors in Hibernate to achieve object relational mapping.  • Used Hibernate Cache for query to improve the application performance.  • Used JDBC driver to connect to the Oracle database for all data transactions  • Collaborate with UX and development teams (within an AGILE framework) to ensure that best practices Salesforce Developer Intern ValetEZ - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2017 to July 2017 Technologies: Salesforce.com Development, SOQL, Visualforce Pages, SOSL, Apex, Java  • Built a Salesforce CRM application for the firm  • As an Administrator, implemented various advanced fields like Picklist Fields, Master-Detail Fields, Custom Formula Fields, and defined Field Dependencies for custom picklist fields.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Customized User Roles, Role hierarchies, Profiles and Sharing settings to ensure that the protected data is available only to the authorized users.  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects. Also, created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts and field updates to implement business logic.  • Customized Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, and Cases. Web Developer Intern Paramount Life Sciences - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2016 to August 2016 Technologies: ReactJs, Bootstrap, Javascript  • Created interfaces that effectively communicate product capabilities and behaviors, as well as business values  • Bootstrap and JavaScript were used as front-end technologies to customize the look and feel  • Designed interactive UI for web pages using HTML, CSS, Angular and React  • Assist social media team with development of contesting and other applications as needed on platforms such as Facebook  • Developed new UI components using React.js, visualizations with D3js and experienced in troubleshooting the unnecessary rendering effects and improving performance  • Collaborate with UX and development teams (within an AGILE framework) to ensure that best practices Education Master's in Computer Science in Large Scale Software Engineering University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH April 2019 Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Amrita University - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2017 Skills API, C#, DJANGO, FIREBASE, Git, Hadoop, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, REDUX, PHP, PYTHON, FLASK, Ruby, Rails, SCRIPTING, XML, MVC, SASS, AJAX Links https://my-portfolio-80a2b.firebaseapp.com http://www.linkedin.com/in/pranay-edula Additional Information SKILLS  Programming Skills: Python, Java, PHP, C, Ruby, C#  Scripting Languages: CSS/HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, ECMA Script, Sass, jQuery, XML  Databases: MongoDB, Neo4j, SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Frameworks: Bootstrap, React, Angular, Redux, NodeJS, MVC, Flask, Django, Rails, Backbone JS, Ember JS.  Other Technologies: AWS, Firebase, Salesforce Development, Hadoop, Spark SQL, SaaS, REST API, Unity.  Version Control: Git, TFS