Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer St. Louis, MO • Having 3+ years of experience in IT software development with Java  • Excellent Java development skills using JSF, spring framework, Hibernate, web services, JDBC, Servlet, JSP, XML  • Expertise in core development and customization development of the product  • Good Knowledge in object-oriented programming concepts  • Good working knowledge in exception handling and collection framework  • Working on Model View Controller (MVC) implementation using spring framework  • Working on Inversion of Control (IOC) implementation using spring framework  • Extensive experience in developing persistent classes for DML operations using Hibernate  • Involved in developing Entity classes with annotations using java persistence API(JPA)  • Good knowledge on spring Aspect Oriented Programming(AOP)  • Good working knowledge on backing beans  • Good Knowledge in developing restful web services with JAX-RS implementation  • Good working knowledge on spring-MVC integration with web service  • Good working knowledge on Spring-MVC integration with Hibernate  • Experience in developing soap-based web services with JAX-WS implementation  • Worked on Java API for XML Binding(JAXB) for developing web services  • Good Working knowledge in developing unit test cases using JUnit with Mockito  • Handful experience on version controllers SVN and GIT for code maintenance  • Worked extensively on Maven tool for automatic adding dependencies and for creating JAR or WAR or EAR with commands or inside eclipse  • Involved in developing log statements with log4j tool  • Expertise in development environment tools Intellij and Eclipse  • Handful experience on tomcat server for deploying the application  • Handful experience on databases Oracle  • Working knowledge on database client environments oracle SQLdeveloper  • Involved in testing web services with soap UI tool  • Involved in developing object related design patterns like Singleton, Factory& Prototype  • Handful experience in design patterns like Data Transfer Object(DTO), Data Access Object(DAO) & Model View Controller(MVC) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Humana Health Care - St. Louis, MO September 2018 to Present Description:  Humana Health Care is one of the largest insurance provider companies in United States. The main lines of Humana include Medical, group Insurance and Humana pharmacy. Humana's diverse lines of business work serve all types of consumers. From families to senior to military members to self- employed individuals, there is planning to meet many unique needs.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from Requirement gathering, design, development, testing and documentation.  • Worked in Agile, CMMI Development Environment. Participated in the daily SCRUM meeting and paired programming to produce quality delivery with in time.  • Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern and developed front end using Angular JavaScript and business components using spring.  • Developed Spring MVC validators to perform server-side business object validations.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP tag libraries, Spring Tag libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Used RESTAPI with JAX-RS for consuming web services to handle two interfaces XML and JSON.  • Used Junit for Unit-Testing.  • Used Hibernate (ORM Mapping tool) framework to interact with the database to update, retrieve, insert and delete values effectively.  • And used Hibernate for dependency management of code in application Configured and deployed the application on Web.  • Used Maven building tool for creating WAR file to be deployed in application servers.  • Involved in setting up Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous builds by polling the repositories.    Environment: JDK 1.8, Java/J2SE, JSP, Servlets, JAX-RS, Web services, J2EE, XML, Hibernate, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, GIT, STS (Spring tool suite), Eclipse, Oracle 11g. Jr Software Engineer ERP Soft Systems Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to April 2013 Description: Animal Welfare Management System is the web-based application that allows pre- analyzed experiment related data, validates against certain business rules and on successful validation of data, it allows scientists to load non-plate-based biological results in to Research Information Factory (RIF) database.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the project using Java, Servlets, and JSP with various built in classes of Java Mobile Edition.  • Used Eclipse as Java IDE tool for implementing the Java code.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate.  • Worked with JDBC and Developed SQL Queries for better performance.  • Designed and developed user-friendly web-based UI using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  • Implemented the AJAX, JSP and Servlets in the MVC Framework to effectively handle the workflow of the application.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application modules to some extent.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and configured Hibernate with spring to interact with the database.  • Used AJAX and JavaScript for validations and integrating business server-side components on the client side with in the browser.  • Responsible for the development of Restful API services to serve requests from screens.  • At server-side application developed based on Servlets, JDBC.  • At server side wrote MySQL Queries to fetch data from JDBC and Data Access Objects.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JavaScript, JSP, MySQL, Hibernate, Restful, AJAX, JDBC, HTML, CSS, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat and Windows. Software Engineer Pilog India Pvt Ltd August 2010 to March 2012 Description: Facial Recognition Software offers two kinds of matching services to users. This whole application accepts facial images as input in JPG format and submits them to the core matching services through sockets in parallel to enable distributed computing. This application matches the input with the whole database and the second one compares two facial images using Eigen face algorithm to calculate the distance between the facial features. This application also retrieves all matching results at later point in future and updates verified results in the database.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application modules to some extent.  • Responsible for the development of rich front-end applications using HTML5, PHP, JavaScript frameworks, Bootstrap and CSS.  • Worked with JDBC and Developed SQL Queries for better performance.  • Used Eclipse as Java IDE tool for implementing the Java code.  • Used AJAX and JavaScript for validations and integrating business server-side components on the client side with in the browser.  • At server side wrote MySQL Queries to fetch data from JDBC and Data Access Objects.  • Responsible for the development of Restful API services to serve requests from screens.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and configured Hibernate with spring to interact with the database.  • Developed the project using Java, Servlets, and JSP with various built in classes of Java Mobile Edition.  • Designed and developed user-friendly web-based UI using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  • At server-side application developed based on Servlets, JDBC.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JavaScript, JSP, MySQL, Hibernate, Restful, AJAX, JDBC, HTML, CSS, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat and Windows. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Osmania University 2012 Skills Hibernate, Core Java, Java, Rest, Spring