Software Engineer Intern <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Intern Software Engineer Intern - Clear Link Technologies Salt Lake City, UT Work Experience Software Engineer Intern Clear Link Technologies - Salt Lake City, UT January 2019 to Present Implemented secure form payment system and notification module to securely collect the PCI data  ? Achieved processing fee functionality by implementing global Vue JS components  ? Developed a chrome extension to copy form field values from source web page (WP) to destination WP and vice versa.  ? Written unit test cases with Jest framework Software Analyst Aspire Systems Pvt. Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2017 to July 2018 Implemented dynamic forms as well as product search functionality.  ? Played a vital role in the migration of the project from Angular 2 to Angular 5 by removing unused components as well as modules which improved the test coverage by 20 %.  ? Performed unit testing to ensure minimum code breakage and enhance code quality following SOLID and DRY principles.  ? Delivered knowledge-transfer sessions on how to kick start Angular 5 framework to fellow developers. Software Developer Intern Aspire Systems Pvt. Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2017 to April 2017 Developed controllers in configuration module using Angular JS 1.x  ? Implemented CRUD operations using JAX-RS RESTful web service.  ? Removed redundant controllers in the project by which app startup time reduced to less than 3 seconds. Education Master of Science in Information Systems in Database Theory and Design The University of Utah, David Eccles School of Business - Salt Lake City, UT August 2019 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Communications and Computer Networking Vellore Institute of Technology - Vellore, Tamil Nadu May 2017 Skills HTML, BOOTSTRAP, PHP, PYTHON, Javascript (4 years), Java (3 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/harshachinni Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Technologies and Frameworks: Vue JS, Angular 5, React JS, Node JS, ES 2018, Java, PHP, Python  ? Database: MySQL, Mongo DB  ? Markup language: HTML 5  ? Style sheet language: CSS 3  ? Design Frameworks: Bootstrap 4, Materialise CSS, Vue Bootstrap  ? Deployment Tools: Heroku  ? Version Control: GIT